
10-K
0001.txt
ANNUAL REPORT




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, DC 20549

                                  FORM  10-K

   FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                      OR

              ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from ________ to ________

                        Commission file number 1-10524
                                               -------

                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                      ----------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Virginia                                               54-0857512
- - --------------------------------                            --------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation of organization)                               Identification No.)




                400 East Cary Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Address of principal executive offices - zip code)

                                (804) 780-2691
                                --------------
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                10 South Sixth Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                (Former address, if changed since last report)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for at least the past 90 days.

                               Yes   X         No _________
                                  -------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or other information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K (  ).

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by non-affiliates
(based upon the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange) on March 1,
2001 was approximately $1 billion. * As of March 1, 2001 there were 101,346,145
shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding.

Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the Proxy Statement
to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 8, 2001.

*In determining this figure, the Company has assumed that all of its officers &
directors, and persons known to the Company to be beneficial owners of more than
5% of the Company's shares, are affiliates.  Such assumptions should not be
deemed conclusive for any other purpose.


                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                               




                                    Part I
Item 1.   BUSINESS
- - ------------------

General
United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. ("United Dominion"), a Virginia corporation,
is a self-administered equity real estate investment trust that owns, acquires,
renovates, develops and manages middle market apartment communities nationwide.

Formed in 1972, United Dominion is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with
regional offices in Richmond, Dallas and Atlanta. The regional offices are
responsible for the operation and management of the Company's 277 apartment
communities in their respective geographic regions. United Dominion, which owns
over 77,000 apartment homes, had approximately 2,400 employees as of January 31,
2001.

The Company operates as a real estate investment trust under the applicable
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  To qualify, the
Company must meet certain tests which, among other things, require that its
assets consist primarily of real estate, its income be derived primarily from
real estate and at least 95% of its taxable income be distributed to its
preferred and common shareholders.  Because the Company qualifies as a REIT, it
is generally not subject to federal income taxes.

Business
Overview
With an objective to be a national company and one of the largest apartment
REITs, from 1996 through 1998, United Dominion acquired other REITs, private
portfolios and individual communities, growing its apartment portfolio from
34,000 to over 87,000 apartment homes by the end of 1998. Following this
significant acquisition period, the Company has spent the last two years
building infrastructure to catch up with the rapid growth, upgrading its
portfolio and focusing on operational issues. The goals have been to strengthen
and better position the Company to sustain above-average net operating income
growth, steadily increase cash flow per apartment home, generate more
predictable earnings and strengthen the capital structure.

In 2000, United Dominion upgraded its portfolio, increased its financial
flexibility and refined its strategy. During the year, the Company sold $215
million of non-core properties that included 26 communities with 5,835 apartment
homes. These divestitures were designed to increase the long-term profitability
of the portfolio. The properties sold included slower growing communities in
several of the Company's core markets, as well as properties located within
markets which United Dominion exited such as Galveston, Texas, Montgomery,
Alabama and Roanoke, Virginia. The majority of the proceeds were used to reduce
debt, strengthen the capital structure and increase financial flexibility. A
lesser part of the proceeds were used to buyback equity securities, both common
and preferred stock.

Changing demographics will have a significant impact on the apartment industry
over the next two decades. The number of young people entering the workforce and
creating households will be significantly higher over the next 17 years as
compared to the number who entered the workforce over the past 12 years. The
number of single people and single parent households continues to grow
significantly. There is also higher growth in immigration than had been
expected. Each of the above-mentioned population segments has a high propensity
to rent. For the first time in more than a decade, the growth in demand for
rental housing will exceed the growth in demand for owner occupied housing.

Customers
United Dominion focuses on the broad middle-market segment of the apartment
market which generally consists of renters-by-necessity.  This group includes
young professionals, blue collar families, single parent households, older
singles, non-related parties and families renting while waiting to purchase a
home. The Company believes that this segment provides the highest profit
potential in terms of rent growth, stability of occupancy, desired level of
service and amenities and investment opportunities.

Recognizing the significant increase in younger renters over the next decade and
a half, the Company plans to target some of its incremental investments to
communities that will be attractive to young households. These communities will
often be located close to where young people work, shop and play.



Markets
At the end of 2000, United Dominion owned apartments in more than 60 MSAs, but
derived 70% of its net operating income in 2000 from its 20 largest markets. The
Company has a geographically diverse portfolio both by region and market. This
diversification increases investment opportunity and decreases the risk
associated with cyclical local real estate markets and economies, thereby
increasing the stability and predictability of United Dominion's earnings.   In
any given year, the Company will have some markets that are strong, some that
are balanced and some that are weak.

In 2000, new supply continued to come into the market as demand was slowing. The
excess supply exerted pressure on occupancy and rents in some of the Company's
key markets, particularly Raleigh, Charlotte and Wilmington in North Carolina
and Columbus, Ohio. Offsetting this, some of the Company's markets experienced
above-average NOI growth for the year, including Richmond, Dallas/Fort Worth,
Atlanta, Greensboro and Baltimore. The Company's West Coast markets including
its markets in California and the Pacific Northwest were exceptionally strong
throughout the year.

Communities
At December 31, 2000, United Dominion's apartment portfolio included 277
communities having a total of 77,219 completed apartment homes (see Item 2,
Properties).  In addition, United Dominion had 1,238 apartment homes under
development at two new communities and three additional phases to existing
owned communities.

The overall quality of the portfolio has significantly improved since 1997 with
the disposition of more than 21,000 apartment homes and the upgrading of most of
the core communities. The upgrading of the portfolio provides several key
benefits related to portfolio profitability. It reduces capital expenditures per
apartment, and therefore increases cash flow. It enables the Company to attract
residents with higher levels of disposable income, and these are customers that
are more likely to accept the transfer of expenses from the landlord to the
resident, such as water and sewer costs, and will generally want additional
services from the landlord that will generate additional revenue.

During the past four years, United Dominion's same community NOI growth averaged
above 5%. The Company grew rental and other income and increased occupancy while
controlling operating expenses. This is a direct result of the overall
improvement to the quality of the portfolio. For 2001, the Company expects same
community net operating income growth in a majority of its markets. NOI growth
is the Company's primary earnings driver.

New CEO
With the Company's repositioning substantially complete, United Dominion began a
search for a new CEO in the fourth quarter. This search culminated with the
hiring of Thomas W. Toomey on February 13, 2001 to replace John P. McCann who
served in this role for more than 26 years. Mr. Toomey has begun a review of the
organizational structure and strategy of the Company. This review could result
in changes that may require the Company to incur expenses for severance and
termination benefits. Additionally, the review may result in a change of intent
with regard to anticipated holding periods of certain assets which could require
the write down of these assets.

Technology
Primarily over the past two years, United Dominion has invested in technology to
improve business processes, communications with constituencies and to become a
better marketer. The Company believes that technology can provide competitive
advantages in the future. Key technology initiatives over the past year have
included a redeveloped corporate web site, an e-training initiative to take
training out of the classroom and directly to associates at their workstations,
and the co-development of a web-based property management system.

2000 Accomplishments
 .  Net operating income (property operating income less property operating
   expenses) from same communities (those acquired, developed or stabilized
   prior to January 1, 1999 and held on January 1, 2000) increased 4.1% in 2000
   compared to 1999;

 .  Completed four development projects aggregating $68.1 million with 992
   apartment homes in five different markets. Lease-ups were ahead of projected
   absorption at two of these communities;



 .  Completed the formation with a financial partner of a development joint
   venture for five new communities containing 1,438 apartment homes at a
   budgeted cost of $103 million . United Dominion earns fee income by providing
   development, construction and property management services to each of the
   joint venture projects;

 .  Completed the disposition of 26 apartment communities representing $215
   million of gross sales proceeds and consisting of communities that no longer
   met the Company's investment criteria. This included exiting certain non-core
   markets;

 .  Reduced debt by $135 million using divestiture proceeds;

 .  Repurchased $29 million of common and preferred stock and operating
   partnership units (OP Units) using divestiture proceeds;

 .  Arranged a new $375 million, three-year revolving credit agreement in order
   to enhance the Company's financial flexibility;

 .  Paid dividends of $1.07 per share, which represents United Dominion's 24th
   year of consecutive dividend increases to shareholders, and;

 .  Formed Realeum, Inc. with two other apartment REITs to complete the
   development of a web-based on-site apartment management system.


Acquisitions and Mergers
Over the past five years, United Dominion acquired over 60,000 apartment homes
as part of its strategy to have a national portfolio. Over the past two years,
the amount of United Dominion's dispositions exceeded its acquisitions, with
acquisitions limited to using disposition proceeds to complete 1031 tax-deferred
exchanges.  During 2000, using the proceeds from its disposition program, United
Dominion acquired one community with 267 apartment homes at a total cost of
$14.8 million, including the assumption of debt and the use of tax free exchange
funds.

When evaluating potential acquisitions, United Dominion considers geographic
location, construction quality, condition and design of the community, asset
quality and current and projected cash flow of the property, ability to increase
the value and profitability of the property through upgrades and repositioning,
potential for rent growth, competition from existing multifamily communities,
anticipated new construction and the potential for economic growth in the market
and sub-market.

The following table summarizes United Dominion's apartment acquisitions
(including mergers) during the last five years (dollars in thousands):



(a)  Includes 7,550 apartment homes acquired in the ASR Merger on March 27, 1998
     and 14,001 apartment homes acquired in the American Apartment Communities
     Merger on December 7, 1998.
(b)  Includes 14,320 completed apartment homes and 675 homes under development
     acquired in connection with the SouthWest Merger on December 31, 1996.



Prior to 1990, United Dominion was the only major publicly held REIT focusing
predominantly on apartment investments.  Since then, a number of multifamily
REITs have been formed. The apartment sector of the real estate industry has
undergone modest but steady consolidation over the past decade. Some apartment
REITs and privately owned portfolios may seek to be acquired by large, well
capitalized REITs that have superior access to the capital markets. United
Dominion has been a participant in this consolidation process, completing the
following mergers:

     On December 31, 1996, United Dominion completed the acquisition of
     SouthWest Property Trust Inc. ("SouthWest") in a statutory merger (the
     "SouthWest Merger").  SouthWest was a publicly traded multifamily REIT that
     owned 44 communities with 14,320 apartment homes primarily located in
     Texas. The SouthWest Merger provided the Company with diversification
     beyond its traditional southeast and mid-atlantic markets, expanding the
     Company into the southwestern markets.

     On March 27, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of ASR
     Investments Corporation ("ASR") in a statutory merger (the "ASR Merger").
     ASR was a publicly traded multifamily REIT that owned 39 communities with
     7,550 apartment homes located in Arizona, Texas, New Mexico and the state
     of Washington. The ASR Merger furthered the Company's investment in
     southwestern markets, provided an initial presence in the Pacific
     northwest, and added communities in Houston and Phoenix.

     On December 7, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of American
     Apartment Communities II, Inc. ("AAC") in a statutory merger  (the "AAC
     Merger").  In connection with the acquisition of AAC, the Company acquired
     53 communities with 14,001 apartment homes located primarily in California,
     the Pacific northwest, the midwest and Florida. The AAC Merger allowed
     United Dominion to enter into new major markets, many of which are strong
     growth markets. Through the AAC merger, the Company entered Portland, San
     Francisco, Sacramento, San Jose, Monterey, Los Angeles, Denver,
     Indianapolis and Detroit.  In addition, AAC added communities to the
     Company's portfolios in Columbus, Tampa, South Florida and Seattle.

Development/Upgrading Activity
During 2000, United Dominion continued to reposition properties in targeted
markets where there was a perceived opportunity to add value and achieve greater
than inflationary increases in rents over the long term. Over the past three
years, the Company has shifted capital into development that could provide
returns on investment (property operating income less property operating
expenses and a capital expenditure allowance, divided by the average investment)
in excess of 9.5% and away from lower yielding acquisitions. In 2000, United
Dominion spent over $90 million on direct development projects. This included
$68.1 million to finish 992 apartment homes in one new community and three
second phases and $26.8 million to start 1,238 apartment homes in two new
communities and three second phases.

During 2000, United Dominion completed the formation of a development joint
venture with an institutional partner.  The joint venture allows the Company to
reduce its development capital commitment and generate fee income as the
developer, general contractor and project manager.  United Dominion expects to
further reduce the capital committed to development in 2001 and to do most new
development in joint ventures where the Company can generate fee income and
increased participation based on performance.

In 2001, the Company will reduce its development activity in suburban, low
barrier to entry sub-markets and sell off several suburban development sites.
In determining whether to develop in a certain market, United Dominion analyzes
demographic and market data such as income levels, occupancy rates, household
formation, employment growth and supply demand ratios.  United Dominion will
spend less on development in 2001 than it spent in either 1999 or 2000.

Same Communities
United Dominion's primary earnings driver is same apartment community
operations.  During 2000, the Company's same communities provided 94% of the
Company's property operating income.  Rental growth was 4.2% and resulted
primarily from a 2.9% increase in rental rates and a 1.2% increase in physical
occupancy. Operating expenses also grew by 4.2%, much of which resulted from a
63.4% increase in property insurance costs and a 5.3% increase in real estate
taxes.  Average physical occupancy, rental rates and operating margins at United
Dominion's same communities during the past three years as set forth below:



                                              2000      1999      1998
                                             -----     -----     -----
Physical occupancy                            94.2%     93.0%     92.9%
Average monthly rental rates                 $ 667     $ 631     $ 602
Operating margin                              61.2%     61.3%     59.6%

While the Company continues to add features to its apartment communities, United
Dominion completed most of its same community upgrade program in 1999, as part
of its plan to improve the quality of the portfolio.   During 2000, the
Company's investment in revenue enhancing and recurring capital expenditures
significantly decreased. As a result of the portfolio upgrade, recurring and
overall capital expenditures declined in 2000. For the mature apartments,
recurring capital expenditures were $311 versus $386 per mature apartment in
1999. The Company, in 2000, also spent $203 per mature apartment on revenue
enhancing capital expenditures, mostly on communities acquired in 1998, where
the upgrade work was not completed in 1999. In 1999, the Company spent $253 per
mature apartment on revenue enhancing capital expenditures. Revenue enhancing
improvements include sub-metering of water and sewer to residents, gating and
fencing of communities, installing intrusion alarms, adding business and fitness
centers and constructing carports, garages and self storage units.

Divestiture Activity
During the past three years, United Dominion has sold more than 21,000 of its
slower growing, non-core apartment homes while exiting some markets. These sales
were done to increase the performance of the portfolio. They allowed United
Dominion to exit slower growing markets and increase the quality of the
portfolio, including reducing the average age of the portfolio.  Proceeds from
the disposition program were used to strengthen the Company's capitalization
structure by paying down debt, as well as to fund new development projects and
to selectively repurchase shares of United Dominion's preferred and common
stock.

At December 31, 2000, there was one community with 132 apartment homes, three
commercial properties and one parcel of land classified as real estate held for
disposition. The Company regularly monitors and adjusts its assets in order to
increase portfolio profitability. Proceeds from the 2001 sales, currently
planned to be lower than 2000, are expected to be used to reduce debt,
repurchase common and preferred stock, fund development and acquire communities
through 1031 exchanges. The Company's divestitures in 2001 are currently
expected to be substantially non-dilutive to earnings.

Financing Activity
As part of United Dominion's plan to strengthen its capital structure in 2000,
the Company used a majority of its disposition proceeds to reduce debt. The
Company anticipates using a significant portion of its 2001 disposition proceeds
to reduce debt and further increase its financial flexibility.

During 2000, United Dominion's major financing activities consisted of: (i)
issuing $100 million of unsecured notes with an interest rate of 8.625%; (ii)
refinancing $46.7 million of tax-exempt notes at a blended rate of 6.32%; (iii)
closing on a $60 million revolving credit facility with the Federal National
Mortgage Association with an initial interest rate of 7.12%; (iv) borrowing $100
million in the form of an unsecured term loan from a consortium of banks; and
(v) repurchasing approximately 1.4 million of common shares and over 700,000
shares of preferred stock.

Taxable REIT Subsidiary
In December 1999, the REIT Modernization Act ("RMA") was signed into law. The
RMA contains several provisions that, when effective in 2001, will allow REIT's
to compete more effectively in the real estate industry by allowing REIT's to
offer the same types of services as other competitors in the marketplace. The
most important feature of the RMA is the allowance for REIT's to create a
taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") that can provide services to residents and
others without disqualifying the rents that a REIT receives from its
residents.

Under the prior law, REIT's were not allowed to provide non-customary or tenant
specific services to its residents, such as concierge services, beyond a de
minimus amount. As the apartment industry has become a competitive customer
focused business, these constraints inhibited REIT's from maintaining a
competitive edge in attracting and maintaining residents. As such, the RMA has
several significant benefits for the REIT industry. REIT's will be allowed,
through a TRS, to provide a wide range of increasingly important services that
residents have come to expect. In addition, the TRS will allow REIT's to
generate new sources of income for REIT shareholders.

Effective January 1, 2001, a REIT can own 100% of the stock of a TRS. However,
the legislation contains a number of safeguards that would limit the size of a
TRS to ensure that REIT's remain focused on their core business of owning and
operating real estate assets. The RMA provides another significant change to
the existing law. THE RMA changes the minimum distribution requirement from 95%
to 90% of the REIT's taxable income. This will allow REIT's to retain a greater
level of capital that can be used to invest back into expenditures to maintain
the quality of their real estate assets as well as repay outstanding debt.

United Dominion will determine the best uses of the TRS in order to be in a
position to take full advantage of the opportunities the new legislation has to
offer in 2001.

Competition
In most of United Dominion's markets, the competition for new residents is
intense. Some competing communities offer features that United Dominion's
communities do not have. Some competing communities may use concessions or lower
rents to obtain competitive advantages.  Also, some competing communities are
larger or newer than United Dominion's communities.  The competitive position of
each community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market
supply and demand.

Management believes that United Dominion, in general, is well positioned in
terms of economic and other resources to compete effectively for residents and
investments.



United Dominion believes it has certain competitive advantages that include:

     .    a fully integrated organization with property management, development,
          acquisition, redevelopment, marketing and financing expertise;

     .    geographic diversification with presence in more than 32 major markets
          across the country, and;

     .    local presence in many of its major markets which allows it to be a
          local operating expert.

Environmental Regulations
To date, compliance with federal, state, and local environmental protection
regulations has not had a material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings
or competitive position of United Dominion.  However, over the past 15 years,
the issue has been raised regarding the presence of asbestos and other hazardous
materials in existing real estate properties. United Dominion has a property
management plan for hazardous materials.  As part of the plan, Phase I
environmental site investigation and reports have been completed for each
property owned.  In addition, all proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to
acquisition. Acquisitions through merger are inspected on a case by case basis
given historical information available. The inspections are conducted by
qualified environmental consultants, and the report issued is reviewed by United
Dominion prior to the purchase or development of any property.  Nevertheless, it
is possible that United Dominion's environmental assessments will not reveal all
environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist
of which United Dominion is unaware. In some cases, United Dominion has
abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of
removal or control of hazardous materials have been prohibitive or United
Dominion has been unwilling to accept the potential risks involved.  United
Dominion does not believe it will be required to engage in any large-scale
abatement at any of its properties.  Management believes that through
professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos, lead paint and
other hazardous materials, coupled with a conservative posture toward accepting
known risk, United Dominion can minimize its exposure to potential liability
associated with environmental hazards.

Recently enacted federal legislation requires owners and landlords of
residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents
or purchasers of the communities any known lead paint hazards and will impose
treble damages for failure to so notify.  In addition, lead based paint in any
of the communities may result in lead poisoning in children residing in that
community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are ingested, and
United Dominion may be held liable under state laws for any such injuries caused
by ingestion of lead based paint by children living at the communities.

United Dominion is unaware of any environmental hazards at any of its properties
which individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on its
operations or financial position.  United Dominion has not been notified by any
governmental authority, and is not otherwise aware, of any material non-
compliance, liability or claim relating to environmental liabilities in
connection with any of its properties.  United Dominion does not believe that
the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations will have a material adverse effect on the Company or its financial
condition or results of operations.  There can be no assurance, however, that
future environmental laws, regulations or ordinances will not require additional
remediation of existing conditions that are not currently actionable.  Also, if
more stringent requirements are imposed on United Dominion in the future, the
costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on United Dominion or
its financial condition.  To the best of its knowledge, United Dominion is in
compliance with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.

Operating Partnership - United Dominion Realty, L.P.
On October 23, 1995, United Dominion organized United Dominion Realty, L.P. (the
"Partnership") under the Virginia Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, as
amended (the "Partnership Act").  United Dominion is the sole General Partner
of the Partnership and currently holds a  90.8% interest. The Partnership is
intended to assist United Dominion in competing for the acquisition of
properties that meet United Dominion's investment strategies from seller
partnerships, some or all of whose partners may wish to defer taxation of gain
realized on sale through an exchange of partnership interests.



The Partnership was organized under a First Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated as of December 31, 1995 which was subsequently amended
in the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of
August 30, 1997 and later amended by the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated as of  December 7, 1998 (the "Partnership Agreement").
A summary of certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement is set forth below.
The summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in
its entirety by reference to applicable provisions of the Partnership Act and
the complete Partnership Agreement.  The Partnership Agreement is filed as an
exhibit to United Dominion's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1998.

Admission of Limited Partners; Investment Agreements
United Dominion presently intends to limit admission to the Partnership to
Limited Partners who are "accredited investors," as defined in Rule 501(a) under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").  Limited Partners
will be admitted upon executing and delivering to United Dominion an Investment
Agreement (the "Investment Agreement") and delivering to the Partnership the
consideration prescribed therein.  In the Investment Agreement, the prospective
Limited Partner makes both representations as to his status as an accredited
investor and other representations and agreements regarding the Units (defined
below) to be issued to him, thus, assuring compliance with the Securities Act.
Any rights to Securities Act registration of the Common Stock of United Dominion
issued to such Limited Partner upon redemption of his Units (see "Redemption
Rights" below), will also be set forth in the Investment Agreement or a separate
registration rights agreement.

Units
The interests in the Partnership of the Partnership's limited partners (the
"Limited Partners") are represented by units of limited partnership interest
(the "Units").  All holders of Units are entitled to share in the cash
distributions from, and in the profits and losses of, the Partnership.
Distributions by the Partnership are made equally for each Unit outstanding
except that outside partners have first priority as described in the
"Distributions" section.  As the Partnership's sole General Partner, United
Dominion intends to make distributions per Unit in the same amount as the cash
dividends paid by United Dominion on each share of Common Stock.  However,
because Partnership properties, which are the primary source of cash available
for distribution to Unit holders, are significantly fewer than properties held
directly by United Dominion and may not perform as well, there can be no
assurance that distributions per Unit will always equal Common Stock dividends
per share.  A distribution made to United Dominion that enables it to maintain
its REIT status (see "Management and Operations" below) may deplete cash
otherwise available to Unit holders.  The Partnership may borrow from United
Dominion for the purpose of equalizing per Unit and per Common share
distributions, but neither the Partnership nor United Dominion is under any
obligation regarding Partnership borrowings for this or any other purpose.

The Limited Partners have the rights to which limited partners are entitled
under the Partnership Act.  The Units are illiquid, they are not registered for
secondary sale under any securities laws, state or federal, and they cannot be
transferred by a holder except as provided in the Partnership Agreement and
unless they are registered as such or an exemption from such registration is
available.  Except as provided in any Investment Agreement or other agreement
with a partner, neither the Partnership nor United Dominion is under any
obligation to effect any such registration or to establish any such exemption.
The Partnership Agreement imposes additional restrictions on the transfer of
Units, as described below under "Transferability of Interests."

Management and Operations
United Dominion, as the sole General Partner of the Partnership, has full,
exclusive and complete responsibility and discretion in the management and
control of the Partnership.  The Limited Partners have no authority to transact
business for, or participate in the management activities or decisions of the
Partnership.

The Partnership Agreement requires that the Partnership be operated in a manner
that will enable United Dominion to both satisfy the requirements for being
classified as a REIT and avoid any federal income tax liability.  The General
Partner is expressly directed, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Partnership Agreement, to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts (including
proceeds of Partnership borrowings) that sufficiently enable United Dominion to
pay distributions to its shareholders that are required in order to maintain
REIT status and to avoid income tax or excise tax liability.



Ability to Engage in Other Businesses; Conflicts of Interest
United Dominion and other persons (including officers, directors, employees,
agents and other affiliates of United Dominion) are not prohibited under the
Partnership Agreement from engaging in other business activities, including
business activities substantially similar or identical to those of the
Partnership.  United Dominion will not be required to present any business
opportunities to the Partnership or to any Limited Partner.

Borrowing by the Partnership
The General Partner is authorized under the Partnership Agreement to cause the
Partnership to borrow money and to issue and guarantee debt as it deems
necessary for the conduct of the activities of the Partnership.  Such debt may
be secured by mortgages, deeds of United Dominion, pledges or other liens on the
assets of the Partnership.

Reimbursement of General Partner; Transactions with the General Partner and its
Affiliates
The General Partner will receive no compensation for its services as General
Partner of the Partnership.  However, as a partner in the Partnership, the
General Partner has the same right to allocations of profit and loss and
distributions as other partners of the Partnership.  In addition, the
Partnership will reimburse the General Partner for all expenses it incurs
relating to the ownership and operation of, or for the benefit of, the
Partnership and any offering of Units or  other partnership interests, and for
the pro rata share of the expenses of any offering of securities of United
Dominion some or all of the proceeds of which are contributed to the
Partnership.

Liability of General Partner and Limited Partners
The General Partner is liable for all general obligations of the Partnership to
the extent not paid by the Partnership.  The General Partner is not liable for
the non-recourse obligations of the Partnership.

The Limited Partners are not required to make further capital contributions to
the Partnership after their respective initial contributions are fully paid.
Assuming that a Limited Partner acts in conformity with the provisions of the
Partnership Agreement, the liability of the Limited Partner for obligations of
the Partnership under the Partnership Agreement and Partnership Act will be
limited to, subject to certain possible exceptions, the loss of the Limited
Partner's investment in the Partnership.

The Partnership is qualified to conduct business in each state in which it owns
property and may qualify to conduct business in other jurisdictions.
Maintenance of limited liability may require compliance with certain legal
requirements of those jurisdictions and certain other jurisdictions.
Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a
limited partnership have not clearly been established in many states.
Accordingly, if it were determined that the right, or exercise of the right by
the Limited Partners, to make certain amendments to the Partnership Agreement or
to take other action pursuant to the Partnership Agreement constituted "control"
of the Partnership's business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant
state, the Limited Partners might be held personally liable for the
Partnership's obligations.  The Partnership will operate in a manner the General
Partner deems reasonable, necessary and appropriate to preserve the limited
liability of the Limited Partners.

Exculpation and Indemnification of the General Partner
If acting in good faith, the Partnership Agreement provides that the General
Partner will incur no liability for monetary damages to the Partnership or any
Limited Partner for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of
errors in judgment or of any act or omission.  In addition, the General Partner
is not responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of its agents,
provided the General Partner appointed such agents in good faith.

The Partnership Agreement also provides for indemnification of the General
Partner, the directors, officers and employees of the General Partner, and such
other persons as the General Partner may from time to time designate, against
any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (joint or several), expenses
(including reasonable legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements
and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or
proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that
relate to the operations of the Partnership in which any such indemnitee may be
involved, or is threatened to be involved, unless it is established that (i) the
act or omission of such indemnitee was material to the matter giving rise to the
proceeding and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and
deliberate dishonesty, (ii) such indemnitee actually received an improper
personal benefit in money, property or services or (iii) in the case of any
criminal proceeding, such indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that the
act or omission was unlawful.



Sale of Assets; Merger
Under the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner generally has the exclusive
authority to determine whether, when and on what terms the assets of the
Partnership will be sold or on which the Partnership will merge or consolidate
with another entity.

Removal of the General Partner; Transfer of General Partner's Interest
The Partnership Agreement does not authorize the Limited Partners to remove the
General Partner and the Limited Partners have no right to remove the General
Partner under the Partnership Act.  The General Partner may not transfer any of
its interest as General Partner and withdraw as General Partner, except (a) to a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the General Partner or the owner of all the ownership
interests in the General Partner, (b) in connection with a merger or sale of all
or substantially all of the assets of the General Partner or (c) as a result of
the bankruptcy of the General Partner.  A substitute or additional General
Partner may be admitted upon compliance with the applicable provisions of the
Partnership Agreement, including delivery by counsel for the Partnership of an
opinion that admission of such General Partner will not cause (i) the
Partnership to be classified other than as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes or (ii) the loss of any Limited Partner's limited liability.  The
General Partner may not sell all or substantially all of its assets, or enter
into a merger, unless the sale or merger includes the sale of all or
substantially all of the assets of, or the merger of, the Partnership and the
Limited Partners receive for each Unit substantially the same consideration as
the holder of one share of Common Stock.

Transferability of Interests
A Limited Partner generally may not transfer his interest in the Partnership
without the consent of the General Partner which may be withheld at its absolute
discretion.  The General Partner may require, as a condition of any transfer,
that the transferring Limited Partner assume all costs incurred by the
Partnership in connection with such a transfer.

Redemption Rights
Each Limited Partner has the right (the "Redemption Right"), subject to the
purchase right of the General Partner described below, to cause the redemption
of such Limited Partner's Units for cash in an amount per Unit equal to the
average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock of United Dominion on the
New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the ten trading days immediately
preceding the date of receipt by the General Partner of notice of such Limited
Partner's exercise of the Redemption Right provided that such Units have been
outstanding for at least one year.  Subject to certain restrictions intended to
prevent undesirable tax consequences and assure compliance with the Securities
Act, a Limited Partner may exercise the Redemption Right at any time but not
more than twice within the same calendar year and not with respect to less than
1,000 Units (or all Units owned by such Limited Partner, if less than 1,000). A
Limited Partner that exercises the Redemption Right shall be deemed to have
offered to sell the Units to be redeemed to the General Partner, and the General
Partner may elect to purchase such Units by paying to such Limited Partner
either the redemption price in cash or by delivering to such Limited Partner a
number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the product of the
number of such Units, multiplied by the "Conversion Factor," which is 1.0,
subject to customary antidilution provisions in the event of stock dividends on
or subdivisions or combinations of the Common Stock subsequent to issuance of
such Units.  Any Common Stock issued to the redeeming Limited Partner will be
listed on the NYSE and, if to the extent provided in such Redeeming Partner's
Investment Agreement or other agreement, registered under the Securities Act
and/or entitled to rights to Securities Act registration.

No Withdrawal of Capital by Limited Partners
No Limited Partner has the right to withdraw any part of his capital
contribution to the Partnership or interest thereon or to receive any
distribution, except as provided in the Partnership Agreement.

Issuance of Additional Limited Partnership Interests and Other Partnership
Securities
The General Partner is authorized, without the consent of the Limited Partners,
to cause the Partnership to issue additional Units or other Partnership
securities to the partners or to other persons on such terms and conditions and
for such consideration, including cash or any property or other assets permitted
by the Partnership Act, as the General Partner deems appropriate.

Meetings
The Partnership Agreement does not provide for annual meetings of the Limited
Partners, and the General Partner does not anticipate calling such meetings.



Amendment of Partnership Agreement
Amendments to the Partnership Agreement may, with four exceptions, be made by
the General Partner without the consent of the Limited Partners. Any amendment
to the Partnership Agreement which would (i) affect the Conversion Factor or the
Redemption Rights of the Limited Partners, (ii) adversely affect the rights of
the Limited Partners to receive distributions payable to them under the
Partnership Agreement, or (iii) alter the Partnership's profit and loss
allocations shall require the consent of Limited Partners.  Any amendment that
would impose any obligation upon the Limited Partners to make additional capital
contributions to the Partnership shall require the consent of each Limited
Partner owning more than 50% of the percentage interests in the Partnership.

Books and Reports
The General Partner is required to keep at the specified office of the
Partnership the Partnership's books and records, including copies of the
Partnership's federal, state and local tax returns, a list of the partners and
their last known business addresses, the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership
certificate and all amendments thereto and any other documents and information
required under the Partnership Act.  Any partner or his duly authorized
representative, upon paying duplicating, collection and mailing costs, is
entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.

The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, as soon as practicable
after the close of each fiscal year, an annual report containing financial
statements of the Partnership (or United Dominion, if consolidated financial
statements including the Partnership are prepared) for such fiscal year. The
financial statements will be audited by accountants selected by the General
Partner.  In addition, as soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal
quarter (other than the last quarter of the fiscal year), the General Partner
will furnish to each Limited Partner a quarterly report containing unaudited
financial statements of the Partnership (or the Company and the Partnership,
consolidated).

The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, within 75 days after
the close of each fiscal year of the Partnership, the tax information necessary
to file such Limited Partner's individual tax returns.

Loans to Partnership
The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner may borrow
additional Partnership funds for any Partnership purpose from the General
Partner or a subsidiary or subsidiaries of the General Partner or otherwise.

Adjustments of Capital Accounts and Percentage Interests
A separate capital account will be established and maintained for each Partner.
The General Partner shall revalue the property of the Partnership to its fair
market value (as determined by the General Partner, in its sole discretion) in
accordance with applicable federal income tax regulations if:  (i) a new or
existing general or limited partner of the Partnership (a Partner or
collectively Partners) acquires an additional interest in the Partnership in
exchange for more than a de minimis capital contribution, (ii) the Partnership
                         -- -------
distributes to a Partner more than a de minimis amount of Partnership property
                                     -- -------
as consideration for a Partnership interest or (iii) the Partnership is
liquidated for federal income tax purposes.  When the Partnership's property is
revalued by the General Partner, the capital accounts of the partners shall be
adjusted in accordance with such regulations, which generally requires such
capital accounts to be adjusted to reflect the manner in which the unrealized
gain or loss inherent in such property (that has not been reflected in the
capital accounts previously) would be allocated among the Partners pursuant to
the Partnership Agreement if there were a taxable disposition of such property
for its fair market value on the date of the revaluation.

If the number of outstanding Units increases or decreases during a taxable year,
each Partner's percentage interest in the Partnership shall be adjusted by the
General Partner as of the effective date of each such increase or decrease to a
percentage equal to the number of Units held by such Partner divided by the
aggregate number of Units outstanding, after giving effect to such increase or
decrease, and profits and losses for the year will be allocated among the
Partners in a manner selected by the General Partner to give appropriate effect
to such adjustments.

Registration Rights
Limited Partners have no rights to Securities Act registration of any Common
Stock of United Dominion received in connection with redemption of Units except
as provided in their respective Investment Agreements or other agreements with
United Dominion.



Tax Matters; Profit and Loss Allocations
Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner is the "tax matters"
partner of the Partnership and, as such, has the authority to handle tax audits
and to make tax elections under the Code on behalf of the Partnership.

Profits of the Partnership are to be allocated first to partners in proportion
to and up to the amount of cash distributions, and second in accordance with the
respective partnership interests.  Losses are allocated in accordance with each
partners percentage interest.

Distributions
The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner shall distribute
cash quarterly, in amounts determined by the General Partner in its sole
discretion (i) first to the outside limited partners, (ii) second to United
Dominion (or appropriate subsidiary) until United Dominion has received an
amount equal to prior distributions to the outside limited partners, and (iii)
third, to the outside limited partners and United Dominion (or the appropriate
subsidiary) in accordance with their percentage interests in the Partnership.
Also, the amount of cash distributable to a Limited Partner who has not been a
Limited Partner for the full quarter for which the distribution is paid is
subject to pro rata reduction.  Upon liquidation of the Partnership, after
payment of, or adequate provision for, debts and obligations of the Partnership,
including any Partner loans, any remaining assets of the Partnership will be
distributed to all Partners with positive capital accounts in accordance with
their respective positive capital account balances.  If the General Partner has
a negative balance in its capital account following a liquidation of the
Partnership, it will be obligated to contribute cash to the Partnership equal to
the negative balance in its capital account.

Term
The Partnership will continue until December 31, 2051, or until sooner dissolved
upon (i) the bankruptcy, dissolution, death or withdrawal of a General Partner
(unless the Limited Partners elect to continue the Partnership by electing by
unanimous consent a substitute General Partner within 90 days of such
occurrence), (ii) the passage of 90 days after the sale or other disposition of
all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership, (iii) the redemption of
all Limited Partners' interests in the Partnership or (iv) election by the
General Partner. Upon dissolution of the Partnership, the General Partner will
proceed to liquidate the assets of the Partnership and distribute the proceeds
remaining after payment or adequate provision for payment of all debts and
obligations of the Partnership as provided in the Partnership Agreement.



Item 2.  Properties
Real Estate Owned

The table below sets forth a summary by major georgraphic market of United
Dominion's real estate portfolio at December 31, 2000. See also Notes 1 and 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule III - Summary of Real Estate
Owned.



(a)  There are 88 communities encumbererd by fixed rate debt aggregating
     $723.7 million. The amount of this debt is included in the encumbrances
     shown for the individual markets. There are 27 communities encumbered by
     fixed rate debt aggregating $135.5 million that is not included in the
     encumbrances shown for the individual markets or in real estate held for
     disposition.

(b)  Average Monthly Rental Rates for the Year Ended December 31, 2000,
     represents potential rent collections (gross potential rents less market
     adjustments), which approximate net effective rents, based on weighted
     average number of homes.

(c)  Includes three commercial properties, one parcel of land and one apartment
     community.



Item  3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- - ----------------------------

     United Dominion and its subsidiaries are engaged in various litigations and
have a number of unresolved claims pending.  The ultimate liability in respect
of such litigations and claims cannot be determined at this time.  United
Dominion is of the opinion that such liability, to the extent not provided for
through insurance or otherwise, is not likely to be material in relation to the
consolidated financial statements of United Dominion.

     In October 2000, United Dominion reached an agreement to settle a class
action lawsuit concerning water usage billing in Texas. The settlement was for
$2.7 million and is subject to final court approval (see Note 9 -
Contingencies).

Item  4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- - --------------------------------------------------------------

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of United Dominion's fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- - ------------------------------------

     The executive officers of United Dominion, listed below, serve in their
respective capacities for approximate one-year terms.


Name                    Age                  Office                      Since
- - ----                    ---                 -------                      -----

John P. McCann           56          Chairman of the Board                1974

Thomas W. Toomey         40          President and Chief Executive        2001
                                     Officer

John S. Schneider        62          Senior Executive Vice President      1996
                                     and Chief Operating Officer

A. William Hamill        53          Executive Vice President             1999
                                     and Chief Financial Officer

Richard A. Giannotti     45          Senior Vice President and Director   1985
                                     of Development-East

Mark E. Wood             49          Senior Vice President and Director   1996
                                     of Development-West

Katheryn E. Surface      42          Senior Vice President, Corporate     1992
                                     Secretary and General Counsel

Kevin W. Walsh           46          Senior Vice President of             1999
                                     Finance

Curt W. Carter           44          Senior Vice President and Director   1985
                                     of Apartment Operations-Northern
                                     Region

Robert L. Landis         42          Senior Vice President and Director   1996
                                     of Apartment Operations-Western
                                     Region



Walter J. Lamperski      43          Senior Vice President and Director   1996
                                     of Apartment Operations-Southern
                                     Region

Blake W. Clemens         43          Senior Vice President and Director   1998
                                     of Acquisitions

Thomas J. Corcoran       54          Senior Vice President and
                                     Director of Human Resources          1997

Patrick S. Gregory       51          Senior Vice President and
                                     Director of Information Technology   1997


     Mr. McCann was United Dominion's Chief Executive Officer starting in 1974.
Mr. McCann was elected Chairman of the Board in 1996. Mr. McCann retired as
Chief Executive Officer of the Company in February 2001.

     Mr. Toomey joined United Dominion as President and Chief Executive Officer
in February 2001.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Toomey was the Chief
Operating Officer of Apartment Investment Management Company. Before becoming
Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Toomey was Executive Vice President - Finance
Administration. Prior to joining AIMCO in November 1995, Mr. Toomey was Senior
Vice President and Treasurer with Lincoln Property Company from 1990 to 1995 and
an Audit Manager with Arthur Andersen & Co. from 1984 to 1990.

     Mr. Schneider is the former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board of South West Property Trust Inc. (South West). Mr. Schneider was employed
with the investment banking firm of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette from 1967
until 1973, when he co-founded a predecessor firm to South West. Mr. Schneider
was elected Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President in 1996 in
connection with the merger with South West and President in 1998.

     Mr. Hamill joined United Dominion as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in October 1999.  Prior to joining United Dominion, Mr. Hamill
was the Chief Financial Officer of Union Camp Corporation.  Mr. Hamill also
previously served as an investment banker with Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated, where he was a managing director.

     Mr. Giannotti joined United Dominion as Director of Development and
Construction in September 1985.  He was elected Assistant Vice President in
1988, Vice President in 1989 and Senior Vice President in 1996.  In 1998, Mr.
Giannotti was elected Director of Development-East.

     Mr. Wood joined United Dominion as Vice President of Construction in
connection with the merger of South West in 1996.  He was promoted to Senior
Vice President and Director of Development-West in 2000.

     Ms. Surface joined United Dominion in 1992 as Assistant Vice President and
Legal Counsel, elected General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Vice President
in 1994 and elected to Senior Vice President in 1997.

     Mr. Walsh joined United Dominion as Vice President of Finance in May 1998.
In 1999, Mr. Walsh was elected to Senior Vice President.  Prior to joining
United Dominion, Mr. Walsh was the Vice President of Finance and Treasurer of
Tultex Corporation.  His experience also includes fifteen years in corporate
banking with predecessors to both First Union and NationsBank.



     Mr. Carter joined United Dominion in 1991 as an Assistant Vice President of
Apartment Operations.   In 1992, he was promoted to Vice President of Apartment
Operations.  In 1995, he was elected Regional Vice President-Northern Region,
and in 1997 was promoted to  Senior Vice President and Director of Apartment
Operations- Northern Region.

     Mr. Landis joined United Dominion in 1996 as Regional Vice President-
Florida Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President and Director of
Apartment Operations-Florida Region. During 1998, Mr. Landis became the Senior
Vice President and Director of Apartment Operations-Western Region. Prior to
joining United Dominion, he was Vice President of Asset Management and Property
Management for CRI/CAPREIT, Inc.

     Mr. Lamperski joined United Dominion in 1996 as the Regional Vice
President-Southern Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President and
Director of Apartment Operations-Southern Region. From February 1990 to August
1996, he was Vice President and Director of Property Management for Steven D.
Bell, a property management company located in Greensboro, North Carolina.

     Mr. Clemens joined United Dominion in 1998 as a Vice President and Director
of Acquisitions and was promoted to Senior Vice President in 1999. Prior to
joining United Dominion, Mr. Clemens was the Vice President of Acquisitions for
McNeil Real Estate Management Company from 1996 to 1998. Prior to this, Mr.
Clemens was the Vice President of Acquisitions and Finance at Insignia
Commercial Group, Incorporated.

     Mr. Corcoran joined United Dominion in 1997 as the Assistant Vice President
of Human Resources and was promoted to Vice President in 1998 and Senior Vice
President in 1999. Prior to joining United Dominion, Mr. Corcoran was the Vice
President of Human Resources for Acordia, Inc., a national insurance brokerage
firm from 1993 to 1995.

     Mr. Gregory joined United Dominion in 1997 as the Vice President and
Director of Information Technology and was promoted to Senior Vice President in
1999.  From 1976 to 1997, Mr. Gregory was employed by Crestar Bank as a New
Technology Analyst.



                                    PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     United Dominion's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) under the symbol UDR. The following tables set forth the quarterly high
and low sale prices per common share reported on the NYSE for each quarter of
the last two years. Distribution information for Common Stock reflects
distributions declared per share for each calendar quarter and paid at the end
of the following month.

 COMMON STOCK



United Dominion determined that, for federal income tax purposes, approximately
76% of the distributions for each of the four quarters of 2000 represented
ordinary income to its shareholders and 24% represented long-term capital gain
to its shareholders.

On March 1, 2001, the closing sale price of the Common Stock was $12 per share
on the NYSE, and there were 8,265 holders of record of the 101,346,145 shares of
Common Stock.

United Dominion pays regular quarterly distributions to holders of shares of
Common Stock. Future distributions by United Dominion will be at the discretion
of its Board of Directors after considering the Company's actual funds from
operations, financial condition and capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
and other factors. The annual distribution payment for calendar year 2000
necessary for United Dominion to maintain its status as a REIT was approximately
$1.04 per share. United Dominion paid total distributions of $1.07 per share for
2000.



SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK
     United Dominion's Series A Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred") and
Series B Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred") is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol "UDRpfa" and "UDRpfb", respectively.  The
following tables set forth the quarterly high and low sale prices per share
reported on the NYSE for each quarter of the last two years for the Series A
Preferred and Series B Preferred.  Distribution information for the Series A
Preferred and Series B Preferred reflects distributions declared per share for
each calendar quarter and paid at the end of the following month.



On or after April 24, 2000, the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed for
cash at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends
from the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock (common or
preferred).

SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK



The Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed beginning May 29, 2007 at the sole
option of United Dominion at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends from the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock
(common or preferred).

SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK
On December 7, 1998, in connection with the acquisition of American Apartment
Communities II, Inc. (AAC), United Dominion issued eight million shares of
Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series D) to one of the sellers
of AAC. The Series D is convertible into 1.5385 shares of common stock at the
option of the holder at any time at $16.25 per share. The Series D is not
redeemable prior to December 7, 2003. On or after this date, United Dominion
may, at its option, redeem all or part of the Series D at a price per share of
$25, plus accrued and unpaid dividends from the proceeds from the sale of
additional capital stock (common or preferred). Distributions declared for 2000
were



$1.91 per share or $.4777 per quarter. The Series D is not listed on any
exchange.

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
United Dominion has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan under which
holders of common and preferred stock may elect to automatically reinvest their
distributions and make additional cash payments to acquire additional shares of
United Dominion's common stock.

OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS
From time to time, United Dominion issues shares of its common stock in exchange
for operating partnership units (OP Units) tendered to United Dominion's
operating partnerships, United Dominion Realty L.P. and Heritage Communities
L.P., for redemption in accordance with the provisions of their respective
agreements. Such shares are issued based on the exchange ratio of one share for
each OP Unit. During 2000, United Dominion issued a total of 41,490 shares of
common stock in exchange for OP Units.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- - ---------------------------------

     The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial and other
information for United Dominion as of and for each of the years in the five-year
period ended December 31, 2000.  The table should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. and
the Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.



Selected Financial Data



(a)  From 1996 to 1998, United Dominion completed the following statutory
     mergers: (i) South West Property Trust, Inc. on December 31, 1996 for an
     aggregate purchase price of $572 million; (ii) ASR Investments Corporation
     Inc. on March 27, 1998 for an aggregate purchase price of $323 million and;
     (iii) American Apartment Communities II on December 7, 1998 for an
     aggregate purchase price of $794 million.

(b)  Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as net income (computed in
     accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (losses) from sales of depreciable
     property, plus depreciation and amortization, less preferred dividends and
     after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. This
     definition conforms with the National Association of Real Estate Investment
     Trust's definition issued in October 1999 which was effective beginning
     January 1, 2000. United Dominion considers FFO in evaluating property
     acquisitions and its operating performance and believes that FFO should be
     considered along with, but not as an alternative to, net income and cash
     flows as a measure of United Dominion's activities in accordance with
     generally accepted accounting principles and is not necessarily indicative
     of cash available to fund cash needs. For 2000, FFO includes a non-
     recurring net charge of $2.9 million related to the settlement of
     litigation and an organizational charge which was partially offset by a
     gain on the sale of land. For 1998, FFO includes a non-recurring charge of
     $15.6 million related to the loss on the termination of a risk management
     agreement.




Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        OF OPERATIONS
        -------------

Forward-Looking Statements
This annual report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, statements concerning property acquisitions and
dispositions, development activity and capital expenditures, capital raising
activities, rent growth, occupancy and rental expense growth.  Words such as
"expects", "anticipates", "intends", "plans", "believes", "seeks", "estimates"
and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements.  Such statements involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results,
performance or achievement of United Dominion to be materially different from
the results of operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Such factors include, among other things, unanticipated adverse
business developments affecting United Dominion, or its properties, adverse
changes in the real estate markets and general and local economies and business
conditions.  Although United Dominion believes that the assumptions underlying
the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore there can be no assurance that
such statements included in this report will prove to be accurate. In light of
the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements
included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a
representation by United Dominion or any other person that the results or
conditions described in such statements or the objectives and plans of United
Dominion will be achieved.

Overview
United Dominion is a real estate investment trust (REIT) with activities related
to the ownership, development, acquisition, renovation, management, marketing
and strategic disposition of multifamily apartment communities nationwide.  Over
the past four years, United Dominion has diversified into new markets to create
a national platform, upgraded the quality of the portfolio and invested in
infrastructure and technology.  The Company continues to review its strategy
with a goal of enhancing long-term earnings growth.  At December 31, 2000,
United Dominion owned 277 communities with 77,219 apartment homes nationwide.



The following table summarizes United Dominion's apartment market information by
major geographic markets within each region (including real estate held for
disposition):





Liquidity and Capital Resources
United Dominion's primary source of liquidity is its cash flow from operations
as determined by rental rates, occupancy levels and operating expenses related
to its portfolio of apartment homes. United Dominion routinely uses its
unsecured bank credit facility to temporarily fund certain investing and
financing activities prior to arranging for longer-term financing. During the
past several years, proceeds from the sales of real estate have been used for
both investing and financing activities.

United Dominion regularly reviews its short and long-term liquidity requirements
and considers the adequacy of its cash flow from operations as well as other
liquidity sources to meet these requirements.  United Dominion believes that it
can fund its short-term liquidity needs such as normal recurring operating
expenses, debt service payments, recurring capital expenditures and
distributions to common and preferred shareholders through cash provided by
operating activities and borrowings from the Company's unsecured bank credit
facility, as needed (see discussion that follows under "Financing Activities").

To facilitate future financing activities in the public capital markets,
management believes that it is prudent to maintain shelf registration statement
capacity.  In this regard, United Dominion filed a shelf registration statement
in December 1999 providing for the issuance of up to $700 million in common
shares, preferred shares and debt securities.  In March 2000, United Dominion
utilized this shelf registration statement to sell $100 million of senior
unsecured notes due March 2003 at an interest rate of 8.625%.  The proceeds from
the offering were used to repay certain mortgage debt and repay revolving bank
debt.

Future Capital Needs
Future development expenditures are expected to be funded through joint ventures
or with proceeds from the sale of property.  Acquisition activity is expected to
be primarily limited to the reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of property
in order to defer large tax gains and reinvested in targeted markets and sub-
markets.

During 2001, United Dominion has approximately $63 million of maturing debt
which the Company anticipates repaying using proceeds from the sale of apartment
communities, mortgage refinancing activity or borrowings under the Company's
unsecured credit facility.

The following discussion explains the changes in net cash provided by operating
and investing activities and net cash used in financing activities which are
presented in United Dominion's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Operating Activities
For the year ended December 31, 2000, United Dominion's cash flow from operating
activities was $224.2 million compared to $190.6 million for 1999, an increase
of $33.6 million. The increase in cash flow from operating activities resulted
primarily from a change in the level of operating assets as a result of
collections on escrow accounts and property insurance receivables during 2000.

Investing Activities
For the year ended December 31, 2000, net cash provided by investing activities
was $103.8 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $34.0
million for 1999.  Changes in the level of investing activities from period to
period reflects United Dominion's strategy as it relates to its acquisition,
capital expenditure, development and disposition programs, as well as the impact
of the capital market environment on these activities.

Real Estate under Development
During 2000, development activity was focused in core markets that have strong
operations managers in place.   For the year ended December 31, 2000, United
Dominion invested approximately $80.1 million on real estate projects, down
$33.9 million from its 1999 level of $114.0 million.



The following projects were complete as of December 31, 2000:



The following projects were under development at December 31, 2000:



In addition to the apartment homes under development at December 31, 2000,
United Dominion has land held for future development with a carrying value of
$33.6 million, a significant portion of which the Company expects to sell during
2001 as these locations do not meet the investment criteria as a result of the
refinement of the Company's strategy during 2000.  United Dominion anticipates
funding approximately $63.5 million on internal development activity in 2001,
which would include the development of two new communities and second phases at
three existing communities.

Development Joint Venture
On June 21, 2000, United Dominion completed the formation of a joint venture
that will invest approximately $103 million to develop five apartment
communities with a total of 1,438 apartment homes.  United Dominion owns a 25%
interest in the joint venture and is serving as the managing partner of the
joint venture as well as the developer, general contractor and property manager.

Prior to completing the joint venture, United Dominion had commenced
construction on all five of the projects.  Upon closing of the venture, United
Dominion contributed the projects in return for its equity interest of
approximately $8 million in the venture and was reimbursed for approximately $35
million of development outlays that were incurred prior to closing the joint
venture.  The proceeds were used to reduce outstanding debt balances.  In
addition, during 2000, United Dominion recognized fee income of



approximately $3 million for general contracting and developer services
provided by the Company to the joint venture. The Company has the option, but
not the obligation, to purchase these properties for fair value upon completion
of the projects.

The following joint venture project was complete as of December 31, 2000:



The following joint venture projects were under development at December 31,
2000:



Disposition of Investments
For the year ended December 31, 2000, United Dominion sold 26 communities with
5,835 apartment homes, one commercial property and a parcel of land for an
aggregate sales price of approximately $214.5 million and recognized gains for
financial reporting purposes of $31.5 million.   These sales allowed the Company
to dispose of older, non-core communities, to exit certain markets that had
limited growth opportunities and to improve the average age of the apartment
portfolio.  During 1999, United Dominion sold 36 communities with 7,443
apartment homes for an aggregate sales price of $241.2 million, which resulted
in gains for financial reporting purposes of $38.0 million.

During 2001, United Dominion plans to sell non-core communities at levels
somewhat below that of 2000.  Proceeds from the 2001 dispositions are currently
planned to be used to improve the Company's financial flexibility and
opportunistically reinvest a portion of the proceeds in acquisitions and the
repurchase of equity securities.

Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2000, United Dominion acquired one community
with 267 apartment homes at a total cost (including closing costs) of $14.8
million which included the assumption of debt and the use of tax free exchange
funds as the Company further curtailed its acquisition activity from 1999 and
1998 levels.

During 2001, in order to complete 1031 exchange requirements, United Dominion
expects to invest 25% to 30% of the Company's disposition proceeds in targeted
markets and sub-markets.  These acquisitions will focus on communities where
there is the opportunity to add value by repositioning the property to be
attractive to the Company's middle-market customer.



Capital Expenditures
United Dominion capitalizes those expenditures related to acquiring new assets,
materially enhancing the value of an existing asset, or substantially extending
the useful life of an existing asset. Expenditures necessary to maintain an
existing property in ordinary operating condition are expensed as incurred.

During 2000, $39.2 million or $514 per home was spent on capital expenditures
for United Dominion's same communities (those acquired or developed prior to
January 1, 1999).  These capital improvements included recurring capital
expenditures, including floor coverings, HVAC equipment, roofs, appliances,
landscaping, siding, parking lots and other non-revenue enhancing capital
expenditures, which aggregated $23.7 million or $311 per home.  In addition,
non-recurring revenue enhancing capital expenditures, including water sub-
metering, gating and access systems, the addition of microwaves, washer-dryers,
interior upgrades and new business and fitness centers totaled $15.5 million or
$203 per home for the year ended December 31, 2000. United Dominion will
continue to selectively add revenue-enhancing improvements which are budgeted to
provide a high return on investment.  Capital expenditures during 2001 are
currently expected to be at levels somewhat higher than those experienced in
2000.

Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities during 2000 was $325.3 million compared to
$175.0 million for 1999, an increase of $150.3 million. During 2000, as part of
the plan to improve its balance sheet position, United Dominion used 77% of the
net proceeds from its disposition program to pay down secured and unsecured debt
and 14% to repurchase shares of common and preferred stock.  The remaining 9% of
the net proceeds were used to complete an acquisition.

During 2000, using the net proceeds from its disposition program, United
Dominion repurchased $64.7 million of certain of its higher rate outstanding
unsecured debt with a weighted average yield of 8.39%.  In addition, the Company
repaid $70.9 million of mortgage debt and $22.4 million of revolving bank debt.

During the first quarter of 2000, United Dominion issued $100 million of 8.625%
unsecured notes due 2003.  Net proceeds of $99.5 million were used to repay
outstanding bank debt.  In addition, United Dominion completed the refinancing
of tax-exempt notes aggregating $46.7 million at a blended rate of 6.32% and
with a final maturity of August 2008.  In conjunction with this refinancing, the
Company removed the liens on $86 million of real estate which had previously
secured the tax-exempt notes.

In September 2000, United Dominion closed on the first part of a $60 million
revolving credit facility (the "FNMA Credit Facility") with the Federal National
Mortgage Association.  The $38.3 million initially borrowed under the terms of
the FNMA Credit Facility has an initial interest rate of 7.12%, which is fixed
through April 1, 2001. The FNMA Credit Facility is for an initial term of five
years, bears interest at a floating rate which can be fixed for periods of up to
270 days, and can be extended for an additional five or ten years at United
Dominion's discretion.  The proceeds from the FNMA Credit Facility were used to
repay a $28.6 million REMIC financing that matured during the third quarter and
the remaining proceeds were used to repay revolving bank debt.

In November 2000, United Dominion borrowed $100 million in the form of an
unsecured term loan from a consortium of banks.  The term loan will initially
mature in May 2003 but may be extended at the Company's option for two
additional twelve-month periods.  Proceeds from the term loan were used to
partially repay a $140.9 million unsecured note payable that matured in the
fourth quarter of 2000 with the remaining balance repaid from borrowings under
United Dominion's existing unsecured credit facility.  Also during the fourth
quarter of 2000, a $23.9 million secured note payable matured and was repaid
using proceeds from additional borrowings under an existing revolving credit
facility with the Federal National Mortgage Association and borrowings under the
Company's unsecured credit facility.

As of December 31, 2000, approximately $14.5 million of United Dominion's
preferred shares have been repurchased under the $25 million preferred share
repurchase program.   For the year ended December 31, 2000, United Dominion
repurchased 199,440 Series A preferred shares at an average price of $23.22 per
share and 507,191 Series B preferred shares at an average price of $19.46 per
share.



For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company repurchased 1,398,659 common
shares at an average price of  $10.03 and repurchased 10,097 operating
partnership units.  As of December 31, 2000, approximately seven million common
shares remained available for purchase under the common share repurchase
program.   Repurchases of shares will be made from time to time in the open
market or in privately negotiated transactions.  The timing, volume and purchase
price will be at the discretion of the Company.

Credit Facilities
In June 2000, United Dominion closed on a  $375 million three-year unsecured
revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a consortium of banks.
The Credit Facility, which extends until August 2003, replaces two lines of
credit that allowed the Company to borrow in aggregate up to $310 million.  At
December 31, 2000, $244.4 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility
leaving $130.6 million available for use.

Under the Credit Facility, the Company may borrow at a rate of LIBOR plus 100
basis points for LIBOR-based borrowings.  This rate is equal to the rate the
Company was able to borrow under a $110 million line of credit arranged in 1999
that was replaced by the new, expanded and longer-term Credit Facility.  Under
the Credit Facility, the Company pays a facility fee, which is equal to 0.20% of
the commitment. The Credit Facility is subject to customary financial covenants
and limitations.

Derivative Instruments
As part of United Dominion's overall interest rate risk management strategy, the
Company uses off-balance sheet derivatives as a means to modify the interest
rate characteristics of on-balance sheet debt obligations or to hedge
anticipated financing transactions.  The Company's off-balance sheet derivative
transactions used for interest rate risk management include various interest
rate swaps with indices that relate to the pricing of specific financial
instruments of United Dominion.  The Company believes that it has appropriately
controlled the risk so that derivatives used for interest rate risk management
will not have any material unintended effect on consolidated earnings.
Derivative contracts did not have a material impact on the results of operations
during 2000 (see Note 6 - Financial Instruments).

Effective January 1, 2001, United Dominion will be required to adopt the
provisions of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 and 138,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  All of the
Company's derivatives qualify as cash flow hedges under the provisions of the
statements (see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies).

Market Risk
United Dominion is exposed to market risk principally from interest rate risk
associated with variable rate notes payable and maturing debt that has to be
refinanced.  United Dominion does not hold financial instruments for trading or
other speculative purposes, but rather issues these financial instruments to
finance its portfolio of real estate assets. United Dominion's interest rate
sensitivity position is managed by the Company's finance department.  Interest
rate sensitivity is the relationship between changes in market interest rates
and the fair value of market rate sensitive assets and liabilities.  United
Dominion's earnings are affected by changes in short-term interest rates on its
variable rate debt and the refinancing of fixed rate debt. A large portion of
United Dominion's market risk is exposure to short-term interest rates from
variable rate borrowings outstanding under its Credit Facility, which totaled
$244.4 million at December 31, 2000. The impact on United Dominion's financial
statements of refinancing fixed rate debt that matured during 2000 was not
material.

At December 31, 2000, the notional value of United Dominion's derivative
products for the purpose of managing interest rate risk was $247 million of
interest rate swaps under which United Dominion pays a fixed rate of interest
and receives a variable rate.  These agreements effectively fix $247 million of
United Dominion's variable rate notes payable to a weighted average fixed rate
of 7.38%.  At December 31, 2000, the fair market value of the interest rate
swaps in an unfavorable value position to United Dominion was $3.8 million (see
Note 6 - Financial Instruments).  If interest rates were 100 basis points more
or less at December 31, 2000, the fair market value of the interest rate swaps
would have increased or decreased approximately $5.9 million and $6.1 million,
respectively.



If market interest rates for variable rate debt average 100 basis points more in
2001 than they did during 2000, United Dominion's interest expense, after
considering the effects of its interest rate swap agreements, would increase,
and income before taxes would decrease by $3.8 million.  Comparatively, if
market interest rates for variable rate debt averaged 100 basis points more in
2000 than it did in 1999, United Dominion's interest expense, after considering
the effects of its interest rate swap agreements, would increase, and income
before taxes would decrease by $4.0 million.  If market rates for fixed rate
debt were 100 basis points higher at December 31, 2000, the fair value of fixed
rate debt would have decreased from $1.39 billion to $1.33 billion.  If market
interest rates for fixed rate debt were 100 basis points lower at December 31,
2000, the fair value of fixed rate debt would have increased from $1.39 billion
to $1.45 billion.

These amounts are determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest
rates on United Dominion's borrowing cost and interest rate swap agreements.
These analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall
economic activity that could exist in such an environment.  Further, in the
event of a change of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to
further mitigate its exposure to the change.  However, due to the uncertainty of
the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the
sensitivity analysis assumes no change in United Dominion's financial structure.

Results of Operations
2000-vs-1999
Net income available to common shareholders was $42.7 million ($.41 per share)
for the year ended December 31, 2000 compared to $55.9 million ($.54 per share)
for 1999, representing a decrease of $13.2 million ($.13 per share).  The
decrease was primarily due to the following factors: (i) property operating
income growth generated from the performance of the portfolio during 2000 was
offset by the decrease in the size of the portfolio due to the disposition
program; (ii) United Dominion recognized $31.5 million ($.31 per share) of gains
on the sales of investments in 2000 compared to $38.0 million ($.37 per share)
for the comparable period in 1999 and; (iii) real estate depreciation increased
significantly in 2000 as a result of the recognition of catch-up depreciation
expense on communities transferred from real estate held for disposition to real
estate held for investment during the second quarter of 2000 and, to a lesser
extent, the impact of completed development communities and capital expenditures
(see Note 2 - Real Estate Owned).

1999-vs-1998
For 1999, net income available to common shareholders increased $7.2 million,
with a corresponding increase of $.05 for both basic and diluted earnings per
share, compared to 1998.  The increase per share was primarily attributable to
aggregate gains on the sales of investments of $38.0 million ($.37 per share)
for the year ended December 31, 1999, compared to $26.7 million ($.27 per share)
in 1998.  However, the increases associated with the gain on sales of
investments were moderated in part due to the $19.3 million of impairment losses
recorded during 1999. United Dominion's non-mature communities with 31,454
apartment homes at December 31, 1999 provided a substantial portion of the
increase in United Dominion's operating income during 1999.

Apartment Community Operations
United Dominion's net income is primarily generated from the operations of its
apartment communities. The following table summarizes the operating performance
for United Dominion's total apartment portfolio for each of the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):






The increase in property operating income provided by the same communities,
development communities and acquisition communities since December 31, 1999, was
partially offset by the loss of property operating income due to the disposition
of 13,278 apartment homes during 1999 and 2000.  As a result of United
Dominion's disposition program, the weighted average number of apartment homes
declined 6.6% during 2000.

2000-vs-1999
Same Communities
United Dominion's same communities (those communities acquired, developed or
stabilized prior to January 1, 1999 and held on January 1, 2000 which consisted
of 76,267 weighted average apartment homes) provided 94% of its property
operating income for the year ended December 31, 2000.

In 2000, property operating income for the same communities increased 4.1% or
$14.1 million compared to 1999.  The growth in property operating income
resulted from a $23.3 million or 4.2% increase in property rental income which
was driven by a  $17.1 million or 2.9% increase in rental rates coupled with a
$5.8 million or 1.2% increase in physical occupancy.  The increase in rental
rates and occupancy was partially offset by higher concessions and bad debt
expense.

For 2000, property operating expenses at these same communities increased $9.2
million or 4.2%.  The increase in property operating expenses was due to (i) a
$2.6 million or 5.3% increase in real estate taxes related to the portion of the
$1.4 billion of real estate acquired in 1998 that has undergone reassessment;
(ii) a $4.5 million or 63.4% increase in property insurance costs attributable
to a combination of the Company's loss history plus overall increases in market
rates;  (iii) a $3.1 million or 5.3% increase in personnel costs due to higher
salaries and benefit costs and; (iv) a $1.1 million or 6.5% increase in property
management as a result of added infrastructure costs in areas such as
information technology, human resources and training.  These increases were
offset by a $1.6 million or 6.0% decrease in utilities expense due to the
continued transfer of water and sewer costs to residents and a $1.4 million or
3.8% decrease in repair and maintenance expense as the Company continues to
benefit from the upgrade program and centralized purchasing initiatives.

As a result of the percentage changes in total property operating income
and total property operating expenses, the operating margin (property operating
income divided by property rental income) declined 0.1% to 61.2%.

Non-Mature Communities
The remaining 6% of United Dominion's property operating income during 2000 was
generated from its non-mature communities (those communities acquired or
developed during 1999 and 2000). United Dominion's development communities which
included 2,470 apartment homes constructed since January 1, 1999 provided an
additional $12.3 million of property operating income for the year ended
December 31, 2000. In addition, the six communities with 1,497 apartment homes
acquired by United Dominion during 1999 and 2000 provided an additional $7.6
million of property operating income during 2000.

1999-vs-1998
Same Communities
United Dominion's same communities (those communities acquired, developed or
stabilized prior to January 1, 1998 and held on January 1, 1999 which consisted
of 51,316 weighted average apartment homes) provided 60% of its property
operating income for the year ended December 31, 1999.

In 1999, property operating income increased 5.6% or $12.0 million compared to
1998.  The growth in property operating income resulted primarily from a $11.1
million or 3.1% increase in property rental income, reflecting an increase in
average monthly rental rates of 3.4% while physical occupancy remained constant
at 93.1%.  For 1999, property operating expenses at these same communities
decreased 0.6% or $827 thousand compared to 1998.  Utility expense decreased due
to the continued transfer of water and sewer costs to residents, repair and
maintenance expense decreased as a result of the upgrade program and taking more
turnover work in-house and property management expenses decreased due to better
economies of scale.  However, these decreases were offset by an increase in
personnel costs due to higher salaries and



benefit costs, an increase in real estate taxes, the addition of monitored
alarms in more communities and higher technology costs.

As a result of the increase in property rental income and the decrease in
property operating expenses, the operating margin improved 1.5% to 61.3%.

Non-Mature Communities
The remaining 40% of United Dominion's property operating income during 1999 was
generated from its non-mature communities (those communities acquired or
developed during 1998 and 1999).   United Dominion's non-mature apartment
portfolio consisted of (i) American Apartment Communities II, Inc., consisting
of 13,728 homes (net of sales), which provided a first year return on investment
(property rental income less property operating expenses divided by the average
capital investment in real estate) of 9.1% on an average investment of $761
million and achieved an operating margin of 62.7%; (ii) 13,577 homes (net of
sales) acquired in 1998, which provided an 8.4% return on investment on an
average investment of $611 million with an operating margin of 57.8%; (iii) five
communities with 1,230 apartment homes acquired by United Dominion during 1999
on an initial investment of $74 million that did not have a material impact on
1999 results of operation; (iv) 12,761 apartment homes sold for an aggregate
sales price of $398 million as part of United Dominion's strategic repositioning
since January 1, 1998 and; (v) 2,404 homes developed at various times since
January 1, 1998, which included the completion of six new communities and one
additional phase to an existing community during 1999.

Interest Expense
During 2000, interest expense increased $2.3 million over the corresponding
amount in 1999 as the weighted average interest rate increased from 7.4% in 1999
to 7.6% in 2000, which more than offset the decrease of $124.7 million in the
weighted average amount of debt outstanding  ($2.1 billion in 2000 versus $2.2
billion in 1999).  The weighted average amount of debt employed during 2000 was
lower as disposition proceeds were used to repay outstanding debt. The increase
in the average interest rate during 2000 reflects short-term bank borrowings
that had higher interest rates when compared to the prior year.  For 2000, 1999
and 1998, total interest capitalized was $3.6 million, $5.2 million and $3.4
million, respectively.

During 1999, interest expense increased $47.5 million over the corresponding
amount in 1998 as the weighted average amount of debt employed during 1999 was
higher than it was in 1998 ($2.1 billion in 1999 versus $1.5 billion in 1998).
The increase in the weighted average amount of debt employed in 1999 was
primarily due to debt assumed during 1998 to fund United Dominion's investment
activities.  The weighted average interest rate on this debt was 7.4% in both
1999 and 1998.

Real Estate Depreciation
During the year ended December 31, 2000, real estate depreciation increased
$31.3 million or 25.7% over 1999.  This increase was primarily attributable to
the recognition of catch-up depreciation expense on communities transferred from
real estate held for disposition to real estate held for investment during the
second quarter of 2000 and, to a lesser extent, the impact of completed
development communities (see Note 2 - Real Estate Owned) and capital
expenditures.

During the year ended December 31, 1999, real estate depreciation increased
$22.1 million or 22.2% over 1998.  The increase was primarily due to the
recognition of a full year of depreciation on United Dominion's 1998 acquired
properties, and to a lesser extent, the recognition of depreciation on the
Company's 1999 acquisitions.

General and Administrative
During the year ended December 31, 2000, general and administrative expenses
increased $1.9 million or 13.5% over 1999, excluding a $2.7 million charge
recognized in the third quarter of 2000 related to the settlement of a class
action lawsuit concerning water usage billing in Texas (see Note 10 -
Contingencies) and a $1.0 million charge to recognize expenses under employment
agreements for certain executives of United Dominion as a result of planned
organizational changes. The $1.9 million increase was primarily due to a $0.8
million increase in franchise taxes in Tennessee as a result of a change in the
state law



regarding franchise taxes with the remaining increase due to recruiting and
tuition costs and consulting costs incurred throughout the strategic planning
process.

During the year ended December 31, 1999, general and administrative expenses
increased  $3.7 million or 36.6% over 1998, primarily due to the expanded
operations of United Dominion and its continued investment in professional
staff, technology and scaleable accounting and information systems.

Impairment Loss
United Dominion did not recognize any impairment loss on its real estate
portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2000.

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion recognized $18.3 million
in impairment losses on its real estate portfolio.  As a result of the review of
its real estate apartment portfolio, 21 properties included in real estate held
for investment were moved to real estate held for disposition during the second
quarter.  Through the review and analysis of communities targeted for strategic
disposition, an aggregate $7.1 million impairment loss was recognized on five
communities in the second quarter and an additional $11.2 million impairment
loss was recognized in the fourth quarter of 1999, related principally to
communities acquired in the ASR merger in 1998.

Gains on Sales of Investments
For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, United Dominion recognized gains
for financial reporting purposes of $31.5 million and $38.0 million,
respectively.  Changes in the level of gains recognized from period to period
reflect the changing level of United Dominion's divestiture activity from period
to period as well as the extent of gains related to specific properties sold.

Distributions to Preferred Shareholders
Distributions to preferred shareholders totaled $36.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2000 compared to $37.7 million for 1999.  The decrease was due to
the repurchase of 199,440 Series A preferred shares and 507,191 Series B
preferred shares during 2000.

Distributions to preferred shareholders totaled $37.7 million for 1999 compared
to $23.6 million for 1998.  The increase was a result of the issuance of eight
million shares of Series D 7.50% Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred
Stock in December 1998.

Discount on Preferred Share Repurchases
For the year ended December 31, 2000, United Dominion recognized $2.9 million of
discount on preferred share repurchases.  The discount on preferred share
repurchases represents the difference between the carrying value and the
purchase price of the preferred shares.

Inflation
United Dominion believes that the direct effects of inflation on the Company's
operations have been inconsequential.  Substantially all of the Company's leases
are for a term of one year or less which generally minimizes United Dominion's
risk from the adverse effects of inflation.

Technology Initiatives
United Dominion is committed to technology initiatives that will allow the
Company to improve its operating efficiencies, gain marketing advantages and
provide the electronic services its customers demand.  Among the key technology
initiatives underway are:

 .    United Dominion is developing a comprehensive eCommerce plan. As part of
     this plan, the Company has created a new corporate home page, and is in the
     process of creating home pages for each of its communities and community
     portals for residents. The resident portals will allow United Dominion to
     offer additional products and services to residents, accessing a previously
     untapped revenue source for the Company.



 .    United Dominion has approximately a 15% interest in Realeum, Inc. Realeum
     is currently developing an innovative web-based property management and
     leasing system. United Dominion believes this system will enable the
     Company to capture, review and analyze data in a manner that is not
     currently available on the commercial market. In addition, the Company
     expects this system to make the leasing process more convenient for
     residents and more efficient for leasing associates. This system will also
     lay the foundation for the fulfillment of online leasing transactions.

 .    United Dominion is continuing the implementation of a virtual private
     network (VPN) that will connect all of the Company's apartment communities
     and offices. This network will improve the efficiency of United Dominion's
     operations and its internal communications.

 .    United Dominion is implementing a web-based learning center that will give
     all associates access to key corporate training courses and reference
     materials.

Management Transition
With the Company's repositioning substantially complete, United Dominion began a
search for a new CEO in the fourth quarter. This search culminated with the
hiring of Thomas W. Toomey on February 13, 2001 to replace John P. McCann who
served in this role for more than 26 years. Mr. Toomey has begun a review of the
organizational structure and strategy of the Company. This review could result
in changes that may require the Company to incur expenses for severance and
termination benefits. Additionally, the review may result in a change of intent
with regard to anticipated holding periods of certain assets which could require
the write down of these assets.




Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------

     Information required by this regarding Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- - ----------------------------------------------------

     See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 44 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
         --------------------

     None.



                                    Part III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- - ------------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8,
2001.

     Information required by this item regarding the executive officers of
United Dominion is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the
section entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- - --------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8,
2001.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8,
2001.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- - --------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8,
2001.



                                 PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------

     (a)  (1&2)  See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on
          page 44 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (3)  Exhibits

     The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this Annual Report.
References under the caption Location to exhibits, forms, or other filings
indicate that the form or other filing has been filed, that the indexed exhibit
and the exhibit referred to are the same and that the exhibit referred to is
incorporated by reference.















21          The Company has the following subsidiaries, all of which but United
            Dominion Realty, L.P. are wholly owned. The Company owns general and
            limited partnership interests in United Dominion Realty, L.P. and
            Heritage Communities L.P., constituting 90.9% of the aggregate
            partnership interest.

            United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
            The Commons of Columbia, Inc.
            UDRT of Virginia, Inc.
            United Dominion Residential, Inc.
            United Dominion Realty, L.P.
            UDRT of North Carolina, L.L.C.
            UDRT of Alabama, Inc.
            Cleary Court Property Owners' Association, Inc.
            UDR South Carolina Trust
            UDR Western Residential, Inc.
            SWPT II Arizona Properties, Inc.
            SRL Amarillo Investors, Inc.
            Little Rock Apartment Management, Inc.
            SWP Arkansas Properties, Inc.
            SWP Developers, Inc.
            SWP Depositor, Inc.
            South West REIT Holding, Inc.
            South West Properties, L.P.
            SWP REMIC Properties II, Inc.
            SWP REMIC Properties II-A, L.P.
            SWP Creeks Properties, Inc.
            UDR Summit Ridge, L.P.
            SWP Woodscape Properties, Inc.
            SWP Woodscape Properties I, L.P.
            SWP Properties, Inc.
            SWP Properties I, L.P.
            South West Property Apartments, L.P.
            UDR Pecan Grove, L.P.
            UDR Camino Village, L.P.
            United Sub, Inc.
            ASR Acquisition Sub, Inc.
            UDR Audubon, L.P.
            UDR Villages of Thousand Oaks, L.P.
            UDR Cimarron City, L.P.
            UDR Kenton, L.P.


            ASR Investments Corporation
            Heritage Communities L.P.
            Heritage SGP Corporation



            Heritage - Aspen Court L.P.
            Heritage - Gentry Place L.P.
            Heritage - Greenwood Creek L.P.
            Heritage - Highlands of Preston L.P.
            Heritage - 14400 Montfort L.P.
            Heritage - Preston Park L.P.
            Heritage - Smith Summit L.P.
            Heritage - Springfield L.P.
            Heritage - Briar Park L.P.
            Heritage - Chelsea Park L.P.
            Heritage - Country Club Place L.P.
            Heritage - Ivystone L.P.
            Heritage - London Park L.P.
            Heritage - Marymont L.P.
            Heritage - Riverway L.P.
            Heritage - Timbercreek Landings L.P.
            Heritage - Campus Commons North, L.L.C.
            Heritage - Campus Commons South, L.L.C.
            Heritage - Court, L.L.C.
            Heritage - On The Boulevard, L.L.C.
            Heritage - Pacific South Center, L.L.C.
            Heritage - Arbor Terrace I, L.L.C.
            Heritage - Arbor Terrace II, L.L.C.
            ASR Properties, Inc.
            ASC Properties, Inc.
            ASC-I Properties, Inc.
            ASC-II Properties, Inc.
            ASC-III Properties, Inc.
            ASC-IV Properties, Inc.
            ASC-V Properties, Inc.
            Rescap Manager Limited Partnership
            Contempo Heights L.L.C.
            La Privada L.L.C.
            Finisterra Apartments L.L.C.
            ASV-I Properties, Inc.
            ASV-II Properties, Inc.
            ASV-III Properties, Inc.
            ASV-IV Properties, Inc.
            ASV-V Properties, Inc.
            ASV-VI Properties, Inc.
            ASV-VII Properties, Inc.
            ASV-VIII Properties, Inc.
            ASV-IX Properties, Inc.
            ASV-X Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XI Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XII Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XIII Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XIV Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XV Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XVI Properties, Inc.
            ASV-XVII Properties, Inc.
            Heritage Residential Group, Inc.
            RMA Investments Holdings, Inc.



            CIMSA Financial Corporation
            RMA Investments I, Inc.
            RMA Investments II, Inc.
            Cholla Estates Construction L.L.C.
            ASR Finance Corporation
            Southwest Capital Mortgage Funding L.P.
            ASR Mortgage Acceptance, Inc.
            UDR Developers, Inc.
            UDR Texas Properties, L.P.
            UDR of Tennessee, L.P.
            UDR Seniors Housing, L.P.
            UDR Aspen Creek, LLC
            United Dominion Residential Ventures, L.L.C.

            American Apartment Communities Holdings, Inc.
            AAC Funding II, Inc.
            AAC Funding III, Inc.
            AAC Funding IV, Inc.
            AAC Seattle I, Inc.
            FMP Member, Inc.
            AAC Funding IV LLC
            AAC Funding Partnership II
            AAC Funding Partnership III
            AAC Vancouver I, L.P.
            AAC/FSC Crown Pointe Investors, LLC
            AAC/FSC Hilltop Investors, LLC
            AAC/FSC Seattle Properties, LLC
            CMP-1, LLC
            Coastal Anaheim Properties, LLC
            Coastal Long Beach Properties, LLC
            Coastal Monterey Properties LLC
            Fountainhead Apartments Limited Partnership
            Governour's Square of Columbus Co.
            Jamestown of St. Matthews Co.
            Northbay Properties II, L.P.
            Parker's Landing Venture I
            Parker's Landing Venture II
            Polo Chase Venture Limited Partnership
            Regency Park, L.P.
            Sunset Company
            Tivoli of Columbus Limited Partnership
            Windward Point, LLC
            Winterland San Francisco Partners
            Woodlake Village, L.P.
            UDR Virginia Properties, LLC
            UDR California Properties, LLC
            UDR Florida Properties, LLC
            UDR Holdings, LLC
            UDR Lakeside Mills, LLC
            UDR Maryland Properties, LLC
            UDR Beaumont, LLC
            UDR/CSFB JV, LLC
            UDR/CSFB Holdings, LLC



            UDR Mandolin, L.P.
            UDR Meridian, L.P.
            UDR Mortgage Capital-1 (CSFB) LLC
            UDR Oaks @ Weston, LLC
            UDR Parke 33, LLC
            UDR Sierra Canyon, LLC

23          Consent of Independent                 Filed herewith.
            Auditors

Exhibits 10(i) through 10(xiii), inclusive, are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this Form
10-K pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

  (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

       A Form 8-K was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March
       9, 2001. The filing reported United Dominion's 2000 fourth quarter and
       year to date results of operations as reported on its Press Release
       issued on February 1, 2001.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
- - ----------------------------------
     (registrant)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on March 9, 2001 by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated.

/s/ John P. McCann                      /s/ Robert C. Larson
- - ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------
John P. McCann                          Robert C. Larson
Chairman of the Board                   Director


/s/ Thomas W. Toomey                    /s/ Lynne B. Sagalyn
- - ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------
Thomas W. Toomey                        Lynne B. Sagalyn
President and Chief Executive           Director
  Officer


                                        /s/ Mark J. Sandler
- - ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------
John S. Schneider                       Mark J. Sandler
Senior Executive Vice President         Director
  and Chief Operating Officer


                                        /s/ Robert W. Scharar
- - ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------
R. Toms Dalton                          Robert W. Scharar
Director                                Director


/s/ Robert P. Freeman                   /s/ A. William Hamill
- - ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------
Robert P. Freeman                       A. William Hamill
Director                                Executive Vice President and
                                          Chief Financial Officer


                                        /s/ Scott A. Shanaberger
- - ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------
Jon A. Grove                            Scott A. Shanaberger
Director                                Vice President, Corporate Controller
                                          and Chief Accounting Officer

/s/ James D. Klingbeil
- - ----------------------------------
James D. Klingbeil
Director



            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.



All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or
because the information required is included in the financial statements and
notes thereto.



                         Report of Independent Auditors
                         ------------------------------

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of United
Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. (the "Company") as of December 31, 2000 and 1999,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of United Dominion
Realty Trust, Inc. at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.



                              Ernst & Young LLP

Richmond, Virginia
January 31, 2001



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (In thousands, except for share data)



         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands, except per share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                  UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            (In thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                     (In thousands, except per share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Organization and Formation United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a Virginia
corporation, was formed in 1972. United Dominion operates within one defined
business segment with activities related to the ownership, development,
acquisition, renovation, management, marketing and strategic disposition of
multifamily apartment communities nationwide. At December 31, 2000, United
Dominion owned 277 communities with 77,219 completed apartment homes and had two
communities and three additional phases to existing communities with 1,238
apartment homes under development.

Basis of presentation   The accompanying consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of United Dominion and its subsidiaries, including United
Dominion Realty, L.P., (the "Operating Partnership"), and Heritage Communities
L.P. (the "Heritage OP"), (collectively, "United Dominion").  As of December 31,
2000, there were 74,486,812 units in the Operating Partnership outstanding, of
which 67,686,662 units or 90.9% were owned by United Dominion and 6,800,150
units or 9.1% were owned by non-affiliated limited partners.  As of December 31,
2000, there were 4,535,845 units in the Heritage OP outstanding, of which
3,879,880 units or 85.5% were owned by United Dominion and 655,965 units or
14.5% were owned by non-affiliated limited partners. The consolidated financial
statements of United Dominion include the minority interests of the unitholders
in the operating partnerships.  All significant inter-company accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Income taxes  United Dominion is operated as, and elects to be taxed as, a real
estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"). Generally, a REIT complies with the provisions of the Code
if it distributes at least 95% of its taxable income and will avoid and will not
be subject to U.S. federal income taxes if it distributes 100% of its income.
Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes. However,
United Dominion is subject to certain state and local excise or franchise taxes.

The differences between net income available to common shareholders for
financial reporting purposes and taxable income before dividend deductions
relate primarily to temporary differences, principally real estate depreciation
and the tax deferral of certain gains on property sales. The temporary
differences in depreciation result from differences in the book and tax basis of
certain real estate assets and the differences in the methods of depreciation
and lives of the real estate assets.

For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common shareholders consist of
ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof.  For
the three years ended December 31, 2000, distributions paid per common share
were taxable as follows:


                                      2000      1999      1998
                                     ------    ------    ------
         Ordinary income             $ .811    $ .620    $ .913
         Long-term capital gain        .257      .129       ---
         Return of capital              ---      .309      .127
                                     ------    ------    ------
                                     $1.068    $1.058    $1.040
                                     ======    ======    ======

Use of estimates   The preparation of the financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Reclassifications   Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior
years' financial statements to conform with current year presentation.

Cash and cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and
liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures   The Company accounts for
investments in unconsolidated joint ventures using the equity method when major
business decisions require approval by the other partners.  Investments are
recorded at cost and subsequently adjusted for equity in net income (loss) and
cash contributions and distributions.  United Dominion eliminates intercompany
profits on sales of services that are capitalized by the venture.  Differences
between the carrying value of investments and the underlying equity in net
assets of the



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


investee are due to capitalized interest on the investment balance and
capitalized development and leasing costs that are recovered by the Company
through fees during construction. Such differences are amortized on a straight-
line basis over the estimated useful life of the investment. During 2000, United
Dominion recognized development and general contractor fees from its venture of
approximately $3.0 million.

Real estate   Real estate assets held for investment are carried at historical
cost less accumulated depreciation and any recorded impairment losses.

Expenditures for ordinary repair and maintenance costs are charged to expense as
incurred. Significant expenditures for improvements, renovations and
replacements related to the acquisition and improvement of real estate assets
are capitalized at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.

United Dominion recognizes impairment losses on long-lived assets used in
operations when there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an
impairment in the value of an asset and the undiscounted future cash flows are
not sufficient to recover the asset's carrying value.  If such indicators of
impairment are present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of
the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value.

For long-lived assets to be disposed of, impairment losses are recognized when
the fair value of the asset less estimated cost to sell is less than the
carrying value of the asset.  Prior to 2000, properties were classified as real
estate held for disposition when management had committed to sell and was
actively marketing the property, and United Dominion expected to dispose of
these properties within the next twelve months.  Beginning in 2000, properties
classified as real estate held for disposition represent properties that are
under contract.  Real estate held for disposition is carried at the lower of
cost, net of accumulated depreciation or fair value less the cost to dispose,
determined on an asset by asset basis.  Depreciation is not recorded on real
estate held for disposition and gains (losses) from initial and subsequent
adjustments to the carrying value of the assets, if any, are recorded as a
separate component of income from continuing operations.

Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which is 35 years for buildings, 10 to 35 years for
major improvements, and 3 to 20 years for furniture, fixtures, equipment and
other assets.

All development projects and related carrying costs are capitalized and reported
on the balance sheet as "real estate under development" until such time as the
development project is completed.  Upon completion, the total cost of the
building and associated land is transferred to real estate held for investment
and the assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.  The cost of
development projects includes interest, real estate taxes, insurance and
allocated development overhead during the construction period.

Interest and real estate taxes incurred during the development period are
capitalized as part of the real estate under development to the extent that such
charges do not cause the carrying value of the asset to exceed its net
realizable value. During 2000, 1999 and 1998, total interest capitalized was
$3.6 million, $5.2 million and $3.4 million, respectively.

Revenue recognition   United Dominion's apartment homes are leased under
operating leases with terms generally of one year or less.  Rental income is
recognized after it is earned and collectibility is reasonably assured.

Restricted cash   Restricted cash consists of escrow deposits held by lenders
for real estate taxes, insurance and replacement reserves and security deposits.

Deferred financing costs   Deferred financing costs include fees and other
external costs incurred to obtain debt financings and are generally amortized on
a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over a
period not to exceed the term of the related debt.   Unamortized financing costs
are written-off when debt is retired before its maturity date.

Advertising costs    All costs are expensed as incurred.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


Interest rate swap agreements   United Dominion enters into interest rate swap
agreements to alter the interest rate characteristics of outstanding debt
instruments. Each interest rate swap agreement is designated with all or a
portion of the principal balance and term of a specific debt obligation. The
interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments over the life of
the related agreements. Amounts received or paid on the interest rate swaps are
recorded on an accrual basis as an adjustment to the related interest expense of
the outstanding debt based on the accrual method of accounting. The related
amounts payable to and receivable from counterparties are included in other
liabilities and other assets, respectively. The fair value of and changes in the
fair value as a result of changes in market interest rates for the interest rate
swap agreements are not reflected in the basic financial statements.

Gains and losses on terminations of interest rate swap agreements are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized
into interest expense over the remaining term of the original contract life of
the terminated swap agreement.  In the event of early extinguishment of a
designated debt obligation, any realized or unrealized gain or loss from the
swap would be recognized in income coincident with the extinguishment gain or
loss.  There were no gains or losses on terminations of interest rate swap
agreements recognized by United Dominion for the periods presented.

Any interest rate swap agreements that are not designated with outstanding debt
or notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements in excess of the original
amounts of the underlying debt obligations are recorded as an asset or liability
at fair value, with the changes in the fair value recorded in other income or
expense (fair value method).

Interest rate risk management agreements   United Dominion enters into interest
rate futures contracts to hedge interest rate risk associated with anticipated
debt transactions. United Dominion follows SFAS No. 80, "Accounting for Futures
Contracts," which permits hedge accounting for anticipatory transactions meeting
certain criteria. Gains and losses, if any, on these transactions are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized
over the term of the related debt as an adjustment to interest expense. The fair
values of interest rate risk management agreements are not recognized in the
financial statements. At the time the anticipated transaction is no longer
likely to occur, United Dominion would record the derivative instrument at its
market value and would recognize any adjustment in the consolidated statement of
operations.

Earnings per share   Basic earnings per common share is computed based upon the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year.  Diluted
earnings per common share is computed based on common shares outstanding plus
the effect of dilutive stock options and other potentially dilutive common stock
equivalents. The dilutive effect of stock options and other potentially dilutive
common stock equivalents is determined using the treasury stock method based on
United Dominion's average stock price. The early extinguishment of debt does not
have an effect on the earnings per share calculation for the periods presented.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earning per
share (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):

                                                  2000      1999      1998
- - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Numerator for basic and diluted earnings
 per share-net income available to common
 shareholders                                   $ 42,653  $ 55,908  $ 48,739

Denominator:
 Denominator for basic earnings per share-
  weighted average shares                        103,072   103,604    99,966


Effect of dilutive securities:
  Employee stock options and awards                  136        35        96
                                                --------  --------  --------

Denominator for dilutive earnings per
 share                                           103,208   103,639   100,062
                                                ========  ========  ========

Basic earnings per share                        $    .41  $    .54  $    .49
                                                ========  ========  ========
Diluted earnings per share                      $    .41  $    .54  $    .49
                                                ========  ========  ========



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


The effect of the conversion of the operating partnership units and convertible
preferred stock is not dilutive and is therefore not included as a dilutive
security in the earnings per share computation. The weighted average effect of
the conversion of the operating partnership units for the years ended December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was 7,489,435 units, 8,180,409 units and 2,963,427
units, respectively. The weighted average effect of the conversion of the
convertible preferred stock for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 was
12,307,692 shares and 809,273 shares at December 31, 1998.

Minority interests in operating partnerships   Interests in operating
partnerships held by limited partners are represented by operating partnership
units (OP Units). The operating partnerships' income is allocated to holders of
OP Units based upon net income available to common shareholders and the weighted
average number of OP Units outstanding to total common shares plus OP Units
outstanding during the period. Capital contributions, distributions and profits
and losses are allocated to minority interests in accordance with the terms of
the individual partnership agreements. OP Units can be exchanged for cash or
shares of United Dominion's common stock on a one-for-one basis, at the option
of United Dominion. OP Units as a percentage of total OP Units and shares
outstanding were 6.8% at December 31, 2000 and 1999 and 7.7% at December 31,
1998.

Minority interest in other partnerships   United Dominion has limited partners
in certain real estate partnerships acquired as part of the acquisition of
American Apartment Communities II on December 7, 1998. Net income for these
partnerships is allocated based on the percentage interest owned by these
limited partners in each respective real estate partnership.

Stock based compensation   United Dominion has elected to follow Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
("APB 25") in accounting for its employee stock options because the alternative
fair value accounting provided for under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock
Based Compensation,"  requires the use of option valuation models that were not
developed for use in valuing employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the
exercise price of United Dominion's employee stock options equals the market
price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation cost has
been recognized.

Impact of recently issued accounting standards   United Dominion will adopt
Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 and 138, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" on January 1, 2001.  The new
accounting standards require companies to carry all derivative instruments,
including certain embedded derivatives, in the consolidated balance sheet at
fair value.  The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative
instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a
hedging relationship and, if so, on the reason for holding it.  If certain
conditions are met, companies might elect to designate a derivative instrument
as a hedge of exposures to changes in fair values or cash flows.  If the hedged
exposure is a cash flow exposure, the effective portion of the gain or loss on
the derivative instrument is reported as a component of equity and reclassified
into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings.  If the hedged
exposure is a fair value exposure, the gain or loss on the derivative is
recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss
or gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged.  A gain or
loss is recognized in earnings when a derivative is not designated as a hedge,
or when any ineffectiveness is measured in the derivative when compared to the
hedged item or anticipated transaction.

United Dominion estimates that upon adoption of Statements 133 and 138 in
January 2001, the Company will record a $3.8 million net transition loss
adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income (equity). Adoption of the
standards also will result in the Company recognizing $134.0 thousand of
derivative instrument assets and $3.9 million of derivative instrument
liabilities. In general, the amount of volatility will vary with the level of
derivative activities during any period.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


2.  REAL ESTATE OWNED

United Dominion operates in over 32 major markets dispersed throughout 21
states.  At December 31, 2000, the Company's largest apartment market was
Houston, Texas, where it owned 5.9% of its apartment homes, based upon carrying
value.  Excluding Houston, United Dominion did not own more than 5.5% of its
apartment homes in any one market, based upon carrying value.

The following table summarizes real estate held for investment at December 31,
(dollars in thousands):


                                                      2000               1999
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land and land improvements                      $  668,003         $  636,905
Buildings and improvements                       2,902,386          2,767,940
Furniture, fixtures and equipment                  188,321            166,826
Construction in progress                               264              6,177
                                               ------------------------------
Real estate held for investment                  3,758,974          3,577,848
Accumulated depreciation                          (506,871)          (373,164)
                                               ------------------------------
Real estate held for investment, net            $3,252,103         $3,204,684
                                               ==============================

The following is a summary of real estate held for investment by major market
within each geographic region (in order of carrying value and excluding real
estate under development) at December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000





The following is a summary of real estate held for disposition by major category
at December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):

                             Initial
                 Number of  Acquisition   Carrying    Accumulated
                Properties     Cost         Value     Depreciation  Encumbrances
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Apartments (b)        1     $    3,817   $    4,696      $  1,036      $  3,506
 Commercial (b)        4         10,482       12,284         1,498         3,324
                   -------------------------------------------------------------
                       5     $   14,299   $   16,980      $  2,534      $  6,830
                   =============================================================
 Total               281     $3,256,873   $3,775,954      $509,405      $866,115
                   =============================================================

(a)  There are 88 communities encumbered by fixed rate debt aggregating $723.7
     million. The amount of this debt is included in the encumbrances shown for
     the individual markets. There are 27 communities encumbered by fixed rate
     debt aggregating $135.5 million that is not included in the encumbrances
     shown for the individual markets or in real estate held for disposition.

(b)  Real estate held for disposition included one apartment community with 132
     homes, three commercial properties and one parcel of land totaling $14.5
     million, which is net of $2.5 million of accumulated depreciation. Real
     estate held for disposition contributed property operating income (property
     rental income less property operating expense) of $1.7 million for the year
     ended December 31, 2000.  The properties classified as held for disposition
     reflect properties that were under contract at December 31, 2000.

The management of United Dominion periodically reviews its divestiture program,
which is designed to better position the Company for achieving more consistent
earnings growth and increasing shareholder value over the long-term. The factors
considered in these reviews include the age, quality and projected operating
income of communities that might be sold, the expected market value for the
communities, the estimated timing for completion of sales and the pro forma
effect of sales upon United Dominion's earnings and financial position. After a
review undertaken in the second quarter of 2000, management transferred
approximately $197 million of assets from real estate held for disposition to
real estate held for investment and, as a result, approximately $10 million in
depreciation expense was recognized on the communities transferred in order to
reflect depreciation on these properties while they were classified in real
estate held for disposition.

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion recognized $18.3 million
in impairment losses on its real estate owned.   Through the review and analysis
of communities targeted for strategic disposition, an aggregate $14.8 million
impairment loss was recognized on assets held for disposition.  An impairment
loss was indicated as a result of the net book value of the assets held for
disposition being greater than the estimated fair market value less the cost of
disposal.   In addition, United Dominion recorded a $3.5 million impairment loss
on three communities acquired in the ASR merger in 1998 which were classified in
real estate held for investment.  An impairment loss



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


was indicated as the sum of the estimated future cash flows from the assets was
deemed to be less than their carrying amounts.

The following is a reconciliation of the carrying amount of real estate held for
investment at December 31, (dollars in thousands):



The following is a reconciliation of accumulated depreciation for real estate
held for investment at December 31, (dollars in thousands):



 * Includes $1,425, $1,157 and $1,095 for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively,
   classified as "Other depreciation and amortization" in the consolidated
   statements of operations.

3.  INVESTMENT IN UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE

At December 31, 2000, United Dominion's investment in an unconsolidated joint
venture consisted of a 25% partnership interest in a development joint venture
in which the Company is serving as the managing partner.  No gain or loss was
recognized on the Company's contribution to the development joint venture.  The
venture will develop five apartment communities with a total of 1,438 homes for
an aggregate total cost of approximately $103 million. United Dominion serves as
the developer, general contractor and property manager for the venture.  The
operating results for the joint venture were not material for the year ended
December 31, 2000.  The following is a summary of the financial position of the
joint venture as of December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):


             Assets:
             Real estate, net                                     $85,644
             Other assets                                           6,507
                                                              -----------
                     Total assets                                 $92,151
                                                              ===========


             Liabilities and partners' equity:
             Mortgage notes payable                               $49,785
             Other liabilities                                     11,436
             Partners' equity                                      30,930
                                                              -----------
                     Total liabilities and partners' equity       $92,151
                                                              ===========



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000



4.   SECURED DEBT

Secured debt, which encumbers $1.5 billion or 38.8% of United Dominion's real
estate owned, ($2.3 billion or 61.2% of United Dominion's real estate owned is
unencumbered) consists of the following at December 31, 2000 (dollars in
thousands):



(a)  Includes fair value adjustments aggregating $10.2 million in 2000 and $14.8
     million in 1999 that were recorded in connection with two acquisitions
     consummated in 1998.

Fixed Rate Debt

Mortgage Notes Payable   Fixed rate mortgage notes payable are generally due in
monthly installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates from
January 2001 through June 2034 and carry interest rates ranging from 7.13% to
9.58%.

Tax-Exempt Secured Notes Payable   Fixed rate mortgage notes payable which
secure tax-exempt housing bond issues mature at various dates through November
2025 and carry interest rates ranging from 6.13% to 8.10%.  Interest on these
notes is generally payable in semi-annual installments.

Secured Credit Facilities   On December 31, 2000, United Dominion had $234.0
million outstanding under two revolving secured credit facilities with the
Federal National Mortgage Association (the "FNMA Credit Facilities").  The FNMA
Credit Facilities are for an initial term of five years, bear interest at a
floating rate which can be fixed for periods of up to 270 days, and can be
extended for an additional five or ten years at United Dominion's discretion.
At December 31, 2000, the FNMA Credit Facilities had a weighted average floating
rate of interest of 7.21%.  In order to limit a portion of its interest rate
exposure, United Dominion has two interest rate swap agreements associated with
the FNMA Credit Facilities.  These agreements have an aggregate notional value
of  $17 million under which United Dominion pays a fixed rate of interest and
receives a variable rate on the notional amount. The interest rate swap
agreements effectively change United Dominion's interest rate exposure on $17
million of secured debt from a variable rate to a weighted average fixed rate of
7.04% (Financial Instruments - Note 6).

Variable Rate Debt

Secured Credit Facilities    Variable rate secured credit facilities consist of
$217.0 million of the $234.0 million outstanding on the FNMA Credit Facilities.

Tax-Exempt Secured Notes Payable    Variable rate mortgage notes payable which
secure tax-exempt housing bond issues mature at various dates from December 2002
to October 2028. At December 31, 2000, these notes had interest rates ranging
from 4.80% to 5.50%.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


Mortgage Notes Payable   Variable rate mortgage notes payable are generally due
in monthly installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates
from July 2003 through September 2027. At December 31, 2000, these notes had
interest rates ranging from 7.30% to 8.37%.

The extraordinary loss for the year ended December 31, 1998 resulted from the
write-off of deferred financing costs on mortgage debt extinguished.

The aggregate maturities of secured debt for the five years subsequent to
December 31, 2000 are as follows (dollars in thousands):



5.   UNSECURED DEBT

A summary of unsecured debt at December 31, 2000 and 1999 is as follows (dollars
in thousands):





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


(a)  Weighted average interest rate of 7.5% and 6.7% at December 31, 2000 and
     1999, respectively.
(b)  As of December 31, 2000, United Dominion had seven interest rate swap
     agreements associated with commercial bank borrowings with an aggregate
     notional value of $120 million under which United Dominion pays a fixed
     rate of interest and receives a variable rate of interest on the notional
     amounts.  The interest rate swaps effectively change United Dominion's
     interest rate exposure on these borrowings from a variable rate to a
     weighted average fixed rate of approximately 7.27%.
(c)  As of December 31, 2000, United Dominion had five interest rate swap
     agreements associated with borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate
     notional value of $100 million under which United Dominion pays a fixed
     rate of interest and receives a variable rate of interest on the notional
     amounts.  The interest rate swaps effectively change United Dominion's
     interest rate exposure on these borrowings from a variable rate to a
     weighted average fixed rate of approximately 7.53%.
(d)  United Dominion has one interest rate swap agreement associated with these
     unsecured notes with an aggregate notional value of $10 million under which
     United Dominion pays a fixed rate of interest and receives a variable rate
     on the notional amount.  The interest rate swap agreement effectively
     changes United Dominion's interest rate exposure on the $10 million from a
     variable rate to a fixed rate of 7.65%.
(e)  Payable annually in three equal principal installments of $7.4 million.
(f)  Includes an investor put feature which grants a one-time option to redeem
     the debentures in September 2004.
(g)  Includes $3.8 million and $4.6 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively, of deferred gains from the termination of interest rate risk
     management agreements.


For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, United Dominion recognized $831
thousand and $927 thousand in extraordinary gains related to the write-off of
deferred financing costs and the repurchase of unsecured notes at less than face
value, respectively.

Information concerning short-term bank borrowings is summarized in the table
that follows (dollars in thousands):



(a) Includes balances on a $75 million bridge facility funded in July 1998 that
matured in November 1998.

In June 2000, United Dominion closed on a  $375 million three-year unsecured
revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a consortium of banks.
The Credit Facility, which extends until August 2003, replaces two lines of
credit that allowed the Company to borrow in aggregate up to $310 million.
Under the Credit Facility, the Company may borrow at a rate of LIBOR plus 100
basis points for LIBOR-based borrowings and pays a facility fee which is equal
to 0.20% of the commitment. The Credit Facility is subject to customary
financial covenants and limitations.

6.   FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by
United Dominion using available market information and appropriate valuation
methodologies. Considerable judgement is necessary to interpret market data and
develop estimated fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts United Dominion would realize on the
disposition of the financial instruments.  The use of different market
assumptions or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value amounts.  The carrying amounts and estimated fair value of
United Dominion's financial instruments at December 31, 2000 and 1999, both on
and off-balance sheet, are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands):



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000



                                         2000                     1999
                                 ---------------------  ------------------------
                                  Carrying    Fair       Carrying       Fair
                                   Amount     Value       Amount        Value
                                 ---------------------  ------------------------
Secured debt                     $  866,115  $  887,430  $1,000,136   $1,031,074
Unsecured debt                    1,126,215   1,130,100   1,127,169    1,102,605
Interest rate swap agreements -
 (unfavorable) / favorable               --      (3,847)         --          626

The following methods and assumptions were used by United Dominion in estimating
fair values:

Cash and cash equivalents  The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents
- - -------------------------
approximates fair value.

Secured and unsecured debt   Estimated fair value is based on mortgage rates,
- - --------------------------
tax-exempt bond rates and corporate unsecured debt rates believed to be
available to United Dominion for the issuance of debt with similar terms and
remaining lives.  The carrying amount of United Dominion's variable rate secured
debt approximates fair value at December 31, 2000 and 1999.  The carrying
amounts of United Dominion's borrowings under variable rate unsecured debt
arrangements, short-term revolving credit agreements and lines of credit
approximate their fair values at December 31, 2000 and 1999.

Interest rate swap agreements   Fair value is based on external market
- - -----------------------------
quotations.

Derivative Instruments

The following table summarizes certain information pursuant to interest rate
swap contracts at December 31, 2000 (dollars in thousands):


  Notional  Fixed  Type of        Underlying      Effective  Contract     Fair
   Amount   Rate  Contract         Debt             Date     Maturity   Value
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$  5,000  7.32%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  06/26/95  07/01/04  $   (95)
  10,000  7.14%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  10/18/95  10/03/02      (59)
   5,000  6.98%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  11/21/95  10/03/02      (11)
  10,000  7.65%    Swap      Medium-Term Notes     01/26/99  01/27/03      134
   7,000  6.78%    Swap            FNMA            06/30/99  06/30/04      (44)
  10,000  7.22%    Swap            FNMA            12/01/99  04/01/04     (211)
  25,000  7.39%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  11/01/00  08/01/03     (428)
  25,000  7.39%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  11/01/00  08/01/03     (428)
  25,000  7.49%    Swap      Bank Term Loan        11/15/00  05/15/03     (433)
  20,000  7.49%    Swap      Bank Term Loan        11/15/00  05/15/03     (347)
  23,500  7.62%    Swap      Bank Term Loan        11/15/00  05/15/04     (602)
  23,000  7.62%    Swap      Bank Term Loan        11/15/00  05/15/04     (589)
  25,000  7.21%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  12/01/00  08/01/03     (315)
   8,500  7.26%    Swap      Bank Term Loan        12/04/00  05/15/03     (103)
  25,000  7.21%    Swap      Bank Credit Facility  12/04/00  08/01/03     (316)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$247,000                                                               $(3,847)
================================================================================

For all periods presented, United Dominion had no deferred gains or losses
relating to terminated swap contracts.

Interest Rate Risk Management Agreements

In order to reduce the interest rate risk associated with the anticipated
issuance of unsecured debt during 1998, United Dominion entered into a $100
million (notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement (interest
rate risk management agreement) with an investment banking firm in July 1997.
United Dominion settled the interest rate risk management agreement on November
9, 1998 by paying $15.6 million to the counterparty. United Dominion was unable
to issue the unsecured debt contemplated by the interest rate risk management
agreement, and



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


accordingly, the cost associated with this settlement is reflected in the 1998
statement of operations. United Dominion has no interest rate risk management
agreements outstanding at December 31, 2000.

Risk of Counterparty Non-Performance

United Dominion has not obtained collateral or other security to support
financial instruments. In the event of non-performance by the counterparty,
United Dominion's credit loss on its derivative instruments is limited to the
value of the derivative instruments that are favorable to United Dominion at
December 31, 2000.  However, such non-performance is not anticipated as the
counterparties are highly rated credit quality U.S. financial institutions and
management believes that the likelihood of realizing material losses from
counterparty non-performance is remote.

7.   EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Profit Sharing Plan

The United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. Profit Sharing Plan (the "Plan") is a
defined contribution plan covering all eligible full-time employees.  Under the
Plan, United Dominion makes discretionary profit sharing and matching
contributions to the Plan as determined by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors.  Aggregate contributions, both matching and discretionary,
which are included in United Dominion's consolidated statements of operations
for the three years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $1.3 million,
$2.2 million and $550,000, respectively.

Stock Option Plan

United Dominion's 1985 Stock Option Plan, (the "Option Plan"), authorizes the
grant of options, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, to certain
officers, directors and key employees of United Dominion, for up to ten million
shares of United Dominion's common stock which is limited to 8% of the number of
shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The Option Plan generally
provides, among other things, that options be granted at exercise prices not
lower than the market value of the shares on the date of grant. Shares under
options which expire or are canceled are available for subsequent grant. For
options granted prior to December 12, 1995, the optionee has up to five years
from the date on which the options first become exercisable during which to
exercise the options. For options granted on or after December 12, 1995, the
options have a ten-year term. Options granted prior to December 9, 1997 vest on
December 31 of the year subsequent to grant while options granted on and after
this date vest ratably over a three-year period beginning on December 31 of the
year subsequent to grant. On December 8, 1998, United Dominion canceled
1,047,165 options which were granted on December 9, 1997 at $14.25. United
Dominion subsequently issued options on December 8, 1998, which vest over a
three-year period, at United Dominion's then market price of $10.875.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), and has
been determined as if United Dominion had accounted for its employee stock
options under the fair value method of accounting as defined in SFAS No. 123.
The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions for 2000, 1999 and 1998:

                                           2000     1999     1998
                                           ----     ----     ----
Risk free interest rate                    5.2%     6.7%     4.9%
Dividend yield                             7.2%     6.9%     6.6%

Volatility factor                         .164     .144     .150
Weighted average expected life (years)       7        9        9

The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2000, 1999 and 1998
was $.65, $.76 and $.66, respectively.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. United
Dominion's pro forma information is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per
share amounts):


                                       2000       1999       1998
                                      -------    -------    -------
Net income available
 to common shareholders
  As reported                         $42,653    $55,908     $48,739
  Pro forma                            41,705     54,847      47,841
Earnings per common share-diluted
  As reported                         $   .41    $   .54     $   .49
  Pro forma                               .40        .53         .48

A summary of United Dominion's stock option activity during the three years
ended December 31, 2000 is provided in the following table (dollars in
thousands, except per share amounts):



(a) The number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options
outstanding is limited to 8% of the number of shares of common stock issued and
outstanding.


Exercisable at December 31,

    1998                       1,691,863    $13.79    $7.44-$15.38
    1999                       2,042,505     13.28      9.19-15.38
    2000                       2,692,997     12.35      9.19-15.38

The weighted average remaining contractual life on all options outstanding is
7.2 years.  1,270,835 of share options had exercise prices between $13.94 and
$15.38, 1,783,008 of share options had exercise prices between $10.75 and $13.50
and 1,439,102 of share options had exercise prices between $9.19 and $10.25.

8.   SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Preferred Stock   Both Series A and Series B Preferred Stock have no stated par
value and a liquidation preference of $25 per share.  With no voting rights and
no stated maturity, the preferred stock in both series is not subject to any
sinking fund or mandatory redemption and is not convertible into any other
securities of United Dominion.  The Series A Preferred Stock could not be
redeemed prior to April 24, 2000 and the Series B Preferred Stock is not
redeemable prior to May 29, 2007.  On or after these dates, the Series A and
Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed for cash at the option of United
Dominion, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per share plus
accrued and unpaid dividends.  The redemption price is payable solely out of the
sales proceeds of other capital



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


stock of United Dominion. No Series A Preferred Stock was redeemed during 2000.
All dividends due and payable on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock have
been accrued or paid as of the end of each fiscal year.

On December 7, 1998, in connection with the AAC merger, United Dominion issued
eight million shares of newly created Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred
Stock (Series D), with a liquidation preference of $25 per share. The Series D
has no voting rights, no stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund
or mandatory redemption. Series D is convertible into 1.5385 shares of common
stock at the option of the holder of Series D at any time at $16.25 per share.
The Series D is not redeemable prior to December 7, 2003. On or after this date,
United Dominion may, at its option, redeem at any time all or part of the Series
D at a price per share of $25, payable in cash, plus all accrued and unpaid
dividends, provided that the current market price of the common stock at least
equals the conversion price, initially set at $16.25 per share. The redemption
is payable solely out of the sale proceeds of other capital stock. In addition,
United Dominion may not redeem in any consecutive twelve-month period a number
of shares of Series D having an aggregate liquidation preference of more than
$100 million.

Officers' Stock Purchase and Loan Plan Under the Officer Stock Purchase and Loan
Plan (the "Loan Plan"), certain officers have purchased common stock at the then
current market price with financing provided by United Dominion at an interest
rate of 7%. The underlying notes mature between November 2001 and October 2006.
A total of 858,500 shares have been issued and 556,500 shares are available for
future issuance under the Loan Plan.

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan United Dominion's Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Stock Purchase Plan") allows common
and preferred shareholders the opportunity to purchase, through the reinvestment
of cash dividends and through optional cash purchases, additional shares of
United Dominion's common stock. As of December 31, 2000, 9,105,474 shares of
common stock had been issued under the Stock Purchase Plan. Shares in the amount
of 4,894,526 were reserved for further issuance under the Stock Purchase Plan at
December 31, 2000. During 2000, 767,513 shares were issued under the Stock
Purchase Plan for a total consideration of approximately $7.3 million.

Restricted Stock Awards  United Dominion's 1999 Restricted Stock Awards Plan
authorizes the granting of restricted stock awards to employees, officers and
directors of United Dominion.  The shares of common stock vest ratably over a
three-year period.   Deferred compensation expense is recorded over the vesting
period and is based upon the value of the common stock on the date of issuance.
A total of 132,000 shares of restricted stock have been issued under the
Restricted Stock Awards Plan as of December 31, 2000.

Purchase Rights  On January 27, 1998, the Board of Directors authorized a
Shareholders Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan") which will become exercisable only
if a person or group (the "Acquiring Person") acquires or announces a tender
offer for more than 15% of the outstanding common stock of United Dominion.
Upon exercise, United Dominion may issue one share of common stock in exchange
for each right.  Each right will entitle the holder to purchase for $45 one
thousandth of a share of Series C Preferred stock or, at the option of United
Dominion, common stock of United Dominion having a value of $90.

9.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Land and Other Leases

United Dominion is party to several ground leases relating to operating
communities.  In addition, United Dominion is party to various other operating
leases related to the operation of its regional offices.  Future minimum lease
payments for non-cancelable land and other leases at December 31, 2000 are as
follows (dollars in thousands):

                2001                       $ 1,860
                2002                         1,809
                2003                         1,627
                2004                         1,506
                2005                         1,358
                Thereafter                  25,289
                                       -----------
                  Total                    $33,449
                                       ===========



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


United Dominion incurred $2.6 million, $2.8 million and $1.6 million,
respectively, of rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and
1998.

Contingencies

United Dominion and its subsidiaries are engaged in various litigations and have
a number of unresolved claims pending. The ultimate liability in respect of such
litigations and claims cannot be determined at this time. United Dominion is of
the opinion that such liability, to the extent not provided for through
insurance or otherwise, is not likely to be material in relation to the
consolidated financial statements of United Dominion.

During the third quarter of 2000, the Company agreed to settle a class action
lawsuit concerning water usage billing in Texas in the amount of $2.7 million.
The settlement is subject to final court approval.  As a result of the
settlement, the Company accrued $2.7 million for the settlement amount and
estimated fees.  The Company will pay the settlement amount when court approval
is final.  Individuals may opt out of the settlement and in the event that more
than 125 persons opt out, United Dominion may elect to withdraw the settlement
agreement.  Management believes that the litigation will be resolved in
accordance with the settlement agreement.

Commitments

United Dominion is committed to completing its real estate currently under
development which has an estimated cost to complete of $63.5 million at December
31, 2000.  For the joint venture development projects, United Dominion is
committed to pay for all costs in excess of each individual project's budgeted
costs.  United Dominion does not anticipate any of the projects' costs to be in
excess of their budget.

10.   ACQUISITIONS

On March 27, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of ASR Investments
Corporation in a statutory merger (the "ASR Merger"). In connection with the ASR
Merger, United Dominion acquired 39 communities with 7,550 apartment homes.
Each share of ASR's common stock was exchanged for 1.575 shares of United
Dominion's common stock.  The acquisition was structured as a tax-free
transaction and was treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. In connection
with the acquisition, United Dominion acquired primarily real estate assets
totaling $313.7 million.  Consideration given by United Dominion included
7,742,839 shares of United Dominion's common stock valued at $14 per share for
an aggregate equity value of $108.4 million plus the issuance of 1,529,990 units
in the ASR Operating Partnership valued at $21.4 million.  In addition, United
Dominion assumed, at fair value, mortgage debt totaling $179.4 million and other
liabilities of $13.6 million.

On December 7, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of American
Apartment Communities II ("AAC") in a statutory merger (the "AAC Merger").  In
connection with the acquisition of AAC, United Dominion acquired 53 communities
with 14,001 apartment homes. The AAC Merger was structured as a tax-free merger
and exchange of partnership units and was treated as a purchase for accounting
purposes.  In connection with the AAC Merger, United Dominion acquired primarily
real estate assets totaling $766.9 million.  The aggregate purchase price
consisted of the following: (i) 8,000,000 shares of United Dominion's 7.5%
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock ($25 liquidation preference value) which is
convertible into United Dominion's common stock at $16.25 per share with a fair
market value of $175 million; (ii) the issuance of 5,614,035 units of limited
partnership interest in the Partnership with an aggregate fair market value of
$67.4 million; (iii) the assumption of $457.7 million of secured notes payable
at fair market value; (iv) the assumption of liabilities and minority interest
aggregating $27.8 million and; (v) $59.8 million of cash.

The ASR Merger and the AAC Merger were accounted for as purchases of real estate
and the operating results for those communities are reflected in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition.

11.   INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

United Dominion owns and operates multifamily apartment communities throughout
the United States which generates rental and other property related income
through the leasing of apartment units to a diverse base of tenants.  United
Dominion separately evaluates the performance of each of its apartment
communities.  However, because each of the apartment communities have similar
economic characteristics, facilities, services and tenants,



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000


the apartment communities have been aggregated into a single apartment
communities segment. All segment disclosure is included in or can be derived
from United Dominion's consolidated financial statements.

There is no tenant who contributed 10% or more of United Dominion's total
revenues during 2000, 1999 or 1998.

12.   UNAUDITED SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
2000 is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):



(a)  The second quarter of 2000 includes $9.9 million of catch-up depreciation
     expense related to the transfer of properties from real estate held for
     disposition to real estate held for investment.
(b)  The third quarter of 2000 includes a $2.7 million charge related to water
     usage billing litigation and a $1.0 million charge for changes to executive
     employment agreements.

________________________________________________________________________________

Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1999 is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):



(a)  The second quarter of 1999 includes $32.2 million of gains on the sales of
     investments and a $7.1 million impairment loss on real estate and
     investments.
(b)  The fourth quarter of 1999 includes $5.5 million of gains on the sales of
     investments and a $12.2 million impairment loss on real estate and
     investments.



         SCHEDULE III
         Summary of Real Estate Owned







SCHEDULE III
Summary of Real Estate Owned








SCHEDULE III
Summary of Real Estate Owned








SCHEDULE III
Summary of Real Estate Owned


(a) There are 88 communities encumbererd by fixed rate debt aggregating $723.7
    million. The amount of this debt is included in the encumbrances shown for
    the individual markets. There are 27 communities encumbered by fixed rate
    debt aggregating $135.5 million that is not included in the encumbrances
    shown for the individual markets or in real estate held for disposition.
(b) Includes a fair market value adjustment of $10.2 milion.
(c) Includes a purchase price reallocation of $8.5 million.
(d) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.0
    billion at December 31, 2000.
(e) The depreciable life for all buildings is 35 years.

