
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549-1004
                               ------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934
 
       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997    COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-14064
 
                                      OR
 
/ / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
 
                       THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


 

 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE 212-572-4200

                               ------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
                               ------------------
 

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                     NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /x/  No / /.
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /x/
 
The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $1.27 billion at August 29,
1997.*
 
At August 29, 1997, 61,436,663 shares of the registrant's Class A Common Stock,
$.01 par value, and 56,839,667 shares of the registrant's Class B Common Stock,
$.01 par value, were outstanding.
 
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 

 
* Calculated by excluding all shares held by executive officers and directors of
  registrant without conceding that all such persons are 'affiliates' of
  registrant for purposes of the Federal securities laws.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.
 
     The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estee and Joseph
Lauder, is one of the world's leading manufacturers and marketers of prestige
skin care, makeup and fragrance products. The Company's products are sold in
over 100 countries and territories under the following well-recognized brand
names: Estee Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Origins, M.A.C. and Bobbi
Brown essentials. The Company is also the global licensee for fragrances and
cosmetics for the Tommy Hilfiger brand. Each brand is distinctly positioned
within the cosmetics market.
 
     The Company has been a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believes it is
a leader in the industry due to the global recognition of its brand names, its
leadership in product innovation, its strong market position in key geographic
markets and the consistently high quality of its products. The Company sells its
products principally through limited distribution channels to complement the
images associated with its brands. These channels, encompassing over 8,500
points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and, to a lesser extent,
free-standing company stores, stores on cruise ships, in-flight and duty free
shops in airports and cities. The Company believes that its strategy of pursuing
limited distribution strengthens its relationships with retailers, enables its
brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens
the aspirational quality of the Company's brands.
 
     The Company has been controlled by the Lauder family since its founding.
Members of the Lauder family, some of whom are directors, executive officers,
and/or employees, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, as of August 29,
1997, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having
approximately 96% of the outstanding voting power of the Company's Common Stock.
 
     When used in this Form 10-K and in future filings by the Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, in the Company's press releases and in oral
statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer, the words
or phrases 'will likely result,' 'expects,' 'will continue,' 'is anticipated,'
'estimates,' 'projects,' 'believes' or similar expressions are intended to
identify 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain
risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.1 to the
Company's December 31, 1996 Form 10-Q, that could cause actual results for
future periods to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently
anticipated or projected. The Company wishes to caution readers not to place
undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
the date made.
 
     Unless the context requires otherwise, references to the Company are to The
Estee Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.
 
PRODUCTS
 
     The Company manufactures and sells a wide variety of skin care, makeup and

fragrance products, which are sold under the following well-recognized brand
names: Estee Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Origins, Tommy Hilfiger,
M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown essentials.
 
     ESTEE LAUDER -- Estee Lauder brand products, which have been sold since
1946, are positioned as luxurious, classic and aspirational. The Company
believes that Estee Lauder brand products are technologically advanced and
innovative and have a worldwide reputation for excellence. The broad product
line principally consists of skin care, makeup and fragrance products which are
presented in high quality packaging.
 
     CLINIQUE -- First introduced by the Company in 1968, Clinique's skin care
and makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been
designed to address individual skin types and needs. The products are based on
the research and related expertise of leading dermatologists. Clinique's skin
care products are marketed as part of the Three-Step System: Cleanse, Exfoliate,
Moisturize.
 
     ARAMIS -- The Company pioneered the marketing of prestige men's grooming
and skin care products and fragrances with the introduction of Aramis products
in 1964. Aramis continues to offer one of the broadest lines of prestige men's
products and has extended the line to include fragrances for women.
 

     PRESCRIPTIVES -- The Company developed and introduced Prescriptives in
1979. Prescriptives is positioned as a color authority with an advanced
collection of highly individualized products primarily addressing the makeup and
skin care needs of contemporary women with active lifestyles. The products are
characterized by simple concepts, minimalist design and an innovative image, and
through a system of color application and extensive range of makeup shades,
accommodate a diverse group of consumers.
 
     ORIGINS -- Origins, the Company's most recent internally-developed brand,
was introduced in 1990. It is positioned as a natural cosmetics line of skin
care, makeup and sensory therapy products that combines time-tested botanical
ingredients with modern science to promote total well-being. In addition to
traditional retail counters, Origins sells its products in 23 Origins stores and
has opened 169 stores-within-stores, which are designed to replicate the Origins
store environment within a department store.
 
     TOMMY HILFIGER -- The Company has an exclusive global license arrangement
to develop and market a line of men's and women's fragrances and cosmetics under
the Tommy Hilfiger brand. In 1995, the Company launched a men's fragrance,
'tommy,' with cologne and aftershave products, and in the fall of 1996, launched
a women's fragrance, 'tommy girl.'
 
     M.A.C. -- The Company acquired a majority equity interest in Make-Up Art
Cosmetics Limited ('M.A.C.') and was appointed the exclusive distributor of
M.A.C. products outside the United States and Canada in December 1994. M.A.C.
products comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting make-up artists and fashion-conscious
consumers. The products are sold through a limited number of department and
specialty retail stores and through 28 M.A.C. stores. The surviving founders of

M.A.C. continue to manage the marketing, product development, manufacturing and
U.S. and Canadian distribution of M.A.C. products, and they also continue to
control the equity interests in M.A.C. not owned by the Company.
 
     BOBBI BROWN ESSENTIALS -- In October 1995, the Company acquired the Bobbi
Brown essentials ('Bobbi Brown') line of color cosmetics, professional makeup
brushes and skin care products. Bobbi Brown products are manufactured to the
Company's specifications by third parties and sold through a limited number of
department and specialty stores. The founders of Bobbi Brown continue to manage
Bobbi Brown's domestic business.
 
     In addition to the foregoing brands, the Company also manufactures and
sells Creme de la Mer, a skin care product acquired by the Company and marketed
separately from its other brands, and through a joint venture formed for the
purpose of developing and distributing fragrances, the Company will be launching
its second Kiton fragrance in Europe in September 1997.
 
DISTRIBUTION
 
     The Company's products are sold at more than 8,500 points of sale in over
100 countries and territories. In each geographic market, the products are sold
through limited distribution channels that complement the quality image of the
Company's products. These channels consist primarily of upscale department
stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and, to a lesser
extent, free-standing company stores, stores on cruise ships, in-flight and
duty-free shops in airports and cities.
 
     The Company maintains a dedicated sales force (consisting of approximately
1,250 employees as of June 30, 1997) who sell to the Company's retail accounts
in North America and in the Company's major overseas markets, such as Western
Europe and Japan. The Company has wholly-owned operations in over 30 countries
through which it markets, sells and distributes its products. In certain
markets, the Company sells its products through selected local distributors
under contractual arrangements designed to protect the image and position of the
Company's brands. In addition, the Company sells certain products in selected
domestic and international military locations.
 
     There are risks inherent in foreign operations, including changes in
social, political and economic conditions. The Company is also exposed to risks
associated with changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment
in countries where it has operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in
United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. In
addition, the Company's results of operations and the value of its foreign
assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes
in such rates also may affect the relative prices at which the Company and
foreign competitors sell their products in
 

the same market. Similarly, the cost of certain items required in the Company's
operations may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.
 
CUSTOMERS
 

     The Company's strategy has been to build strong strategic relationships
with selected retailers globally. The Company's senior management works with
executives of its major retail accounts on a regular basis, and the Company
believes it is viewed as an important supplier to these customers.
 
     Customers affiliated with Federated Department Stores, Inc. (e.g.,
Bloomingdale's, Burdines, Macy's and Rich's/Lazarus) and The May Department
Stores Company (e.g., Foley's, Lord & Taylor and Robinsons-May) accounted for
12% and 10%, respectively, of the Company's net sales in fiscal 1997 and 13% and
10%, respectively, of the Companys net sales in fiscal 1996. In fiscal 1995,
customers affiliated with Federated Department Stores, Inc. accounted for 11% of
the Company's net sales.
 
MARKETING
 
     The Company's marketing strategy is built around its 'vision' statement:
'Bringing the Best to Everyone We Touch.' Estee Lauder formulated this marketing
philosophy to provide high quality service and products as the foundation for a
solid and loyal consumer base.
 
     The Company focuses its marketing efforts on promoting the quality and
benefits of its products. Each of the Company's brands is distinctively
positioned, has a single global image, and is promoted with consistent logos,
packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it
from other brands. In recent years, the Company has increased its emphasis on
media advertising while decreasing the level of promotional spending as a
percentage of sales. The Company regularly advertises its products on television
and radio, in upscale magazines and prestigious newspapers and through direct
mail and photo displays at international airports. Promotional activities and
in-store displays are designed to introduce existing consumers to different
products in the line and to attract new consumers. The Company's marketing
efforts also benefit from cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some
of which are supported by coordinated promotions, such as 'Gift with Purchase'
and 'Purchase with Purchase.' At in-store counters, the Company offers personal
demonstrations to market individual products as well as to provide education on
basic skin care and makeup application. The Company conducts extensive sampling
programs. The Company pioneered 'Gift with Purchase' as a sampling program and
believes that the quality and perceived benefits of sample products have been
effective inducements in selling products to existing and new consumers.
 
     Nearly all of the creative work for Estee Lauder, Clinique, Aramis,
Prescriptives, Origins, M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown essentials is done by brand
specific in-house creative teams. The creative staff designs and produces the
sales materials, advertisements and packaging for all products in the brand. The
Company's total advertising and promotional expenditures were $976.2 million,
$921.2 million and $847.7 million for fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
In addition, the Company's products receive extensive editorial coverage in
prestige publications and other media worldwide.
 
     The marketing and sales executives of the Company spend considerable time
in the field meeting with consumers, checking activities of competitors and
consulting with the approximately 25,000 sales representatives at the points of
sale. These include Estee Lauder Beauty Advisors, Clinique Consultants, Aramis
Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts and Origins Guides. The costs

associated with these sales representatives, who typically are employees of the
department stores, generally are shared by the retailer and the Company and, to
a lesser extent, borne solely by the retailer. The marketing and sales
executives also frequently visit worldwide points of sale and jointly develop
with key retailers specific marketing strategies for increasing growth and
profitability.
 
     As is customary in the cosmetics industry, the Company's practice is to
accept returns of its products from retailers. In accepting returns, the Company
typically provides a credit to the retailer with respect to accounts receivable
from that retailer on a dollar-for-dollar basis. In recognition of this
practice, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the
Company reports its sales levels on a net sales basis, which is computed by
deducting from gross sales the amount of actual returns and the amount of
reserve established for
 

anticipated returns. As a percentage of gross sales, returns were approximately
4.9% in fiscal 1997 and 1996 and 4.3% in fiscal 1995.
 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 
     The Company's management information systems provide order processing,
production and accounting support for the Company's business. The Company has
implemented a sales analysis system to track weekly sales by stock keeping unit
(i.e., sell-through data). The system is currently tracking sales at
approximately 95% of the Company's points of sale in the United States and
Canada. The increased understanding of consumer preferences gained from
sell-through data enables the Company to coordinate more effectively its product
development, manufacturing and marketing strategies. The Company also is
implementing similar systems in certain international markets.
 
     In addition, the Company has entered into automated replenishment
arrangements with a number of its key customers in the United States and Canada.
These arrangements enable the Company to replenish inventories for individual
points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork. Approximately 70% of the
Company's orders in the United States are placed through automated replenishment
systems.
 
     The use of sell-through data combined with the implementation of automated
replenishment systems has resulted in increased sales, fewer 'out-of-stocks' and
reduced retail inventories. The Company's management expects that these systems
will continue to provide inventory and sales efficiencies.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company believes that it is an industry leader in the development of
new products. The Company's marketing, product development and packaging groups
work with its research and development group to identify shifts in consumer
preferences, develop new products and redesign or reformulate existing products.
In addition, research and development personnel work closely with quality
assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis to ensure a
consistent global standard for products and to deliver products with attributes

that fulfill consumer expectations.
 
     The Company maintains ongoing research and development programs at its
facilities in Melville, New York, Oevel, Belgium and Tokyo, Japan. As of June
30, 1997, the Company has approximately 300 employees engaged in research and
development. Its research and development expenditures totalled $35.3 million,
$32.9 million and $30.9 million for fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
The Company's research and development group makes significant contributions
toward improving existing products and developing new products and provides
on-going technical assistance and support to the Company's manufacturing
activities. The Company's research and development group has had long-standing
working relationships with several U.S. and international medical and
educational facilities which supplement the Company's internal capabilities. The
Company does not conduct animal-testing of its products or their ingredients.
 
MANUFACTURING AND RAW MATERIALS
 
     The Company manufactures skin care, makeup and fragrance products in the
United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada and, to a
lesser extent, in Australia, Venezuela and South Africa. In 1993, the Company
began a program to streamline its manufacturing and sourcing to increase
efficiencies and reduce costs. As part of this program, the Company has
converted a significant portion of its manufacturing facilities at selected
sites into 'focus' plants that will manufacture one type of product (e.g.,
powders) for all the Company's principal brands. The Company's plants are modern
and its manufacturing processes are substantially automated. Management believes
that the Company's manufacturing facilities are sufficient to meet its current
and reasonably anticipated manufacturing and related requirements. A limited
number of finished products are manufactured to the Company's specifications by
third parties.
 
     The principal raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its
products are essential oils, alcohol and specialty chemicals. The Company also
purchases packaging components, which are manufactured to its design
specifications. Procurement of materials for all manufacturing facilities is
made on a global basis through the Company's centralized supplier relations
department, and it is expected that the use of 'focus'
 

plants will also contribute to greater efficiencies in sourcing. The Company
typically enters into arrangements with suppliers for periods of one to four
years to obtain cost advantages and ensure quality. The Company is not dependent
upon a single supplier (or a single facility of any supplier) for materials that
are either essential to its business or not otherwise commercially available to
the Company. The Company has been able to obtain an adequate supply of raw
materials and believes it has adequate alternate sources of supply for all
principal components of its products. The Company does not believe that the loss
of any one supplier would have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial condition.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The skin care, makeup and fragrance businesses are characterized by

vigorous competition throughout the world. Product recognition, quality,
performance and price have a significant influence on consumers' choices among
competing products and brands. Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace
and timing of new product introductions and line extensions and the quality of
in-store sales staff also have a significant impact on consumer buying
decisions. The Company competes against a number of manufacturers and marketers
of skin care, makeup and fragrance products, some of which have substantially
greater resources than the Company and many of which sell their products through
broader distribution channels than the Company.
 
     The Company's principal competitors among manufacturers and marketers of
prestige skin care, makeup and fragrance products brands include L'Oreal S.A.
(which markets Lancome, Ralph Lauren and other products), Unilever N.V. (which
markets Calvin Klein, Elizabeth Arden and other products), The Procter & Gamble
Company (which markets Giorgio fragrances, Max Factor and other products), LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton (which markets Christian Dior, Givenchy and Guerlain
products), Shiseido Company, Ltd. (which markets Shiseido products), Elf Sanofi
S.A. (which markets Nina Ricci, Yves Rocher and Yves St. Laurent products), Joh.
A. Benckiser GmbH (which markets Lancaster, Davidoff, Joop! and Jil Sander
products), Chanel, Inc. (which markets Chanel and Bourjois products) and Clarins
(which markets Clarins products). Some of these competitors, as well as other
manufacturers and marketers, market and sell branded products through broader
distribution channels. These include Avon Products, Inc., Joh. A. Benckiser GmbH
(which markets Coty products), L'Oreal (which markets L'Oreal, Maybelline and
Plenitude Products), The Procter & Gamble Company (which markets Cover Girl
products) and Revlon, Inc. (which markets Revlon, Almay and Moon Drops
products).
 
TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS
 
     The Company owns all of the material trademark rights used in connection
with the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of its major products both in
the United States and in the other countries in which such products are
principally sold, except for the trademark rights relating to Tommy Hilfiger, as
to which the Company is the exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances,
cosmetics and toiletries. The Company's trademarks for its principal (or major)
products are registered in the United States and in each of the countries in
which such products are sold. The major trademarks used by the Company in its
business include the brand names Estee Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives,
Origins, Tommy Hilfiger, M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown essentials and the names of many
of the products sold under each of these brands. The Company considers the
protection of its trademarks to be important to its business.
 
     A number of the Company's products incorporate patented or patent-pending
formulations. In addition, several of the Company's products are covered by
design patents or patent applications. While management considers these patents
and the protection thereof to be important, no single patent is considered
material to the conduct of the Company's business.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     At June 30, 1997, the Company had approximately 14,700 full-time employees
worldwide (inclusive of sales representatives at points of sale who are employed
by the Company), of whom approximately 5,000 were employed in the United States

and 9,700 abroad. None of the Company's U.S. employees are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement. Approximately 500 employees in Europe are
covered by Works Council agreements. Management believes that the Company's
relations with its employees are good. The Company has
 

never encountered a strike or material work stoppage in the United States or in
any other country in which it has a significant number of employees.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     The Company and its products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug
Administration and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well as
various other federal, state and local and foreign regulatory authorities. Such
regulations relate principally to the ingredients, labeling, packaging and
marketing of the Company's products. The Company believes that it is in
substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as applicable federal,
state, local and foreign rules and regulations governing the discharge of
materials hazardous to the environment. There are no significant capital
expenditures for environmental control matters either planned in the current
year or expected in the near future.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     The Company's results of operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations,
with net sales in the first and second fiscal quarters typically being slightly
higher than in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. The higher net sales in the
first two fiscal quarters are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing
by retailers for the Christmas selling season and for fall fashion makeup
introductions. Greater variation exists in quarterly operating income and
margin, which typically are lower in the second half of the fiscal year than in
the first half. In addition to the effect of lower net sales on operating income
in the third and fourth fiscal quarters as compared to the first and second
fiscal quarters, operating income and operating margin in the third and fourth
fiscal quarters are negatively affected by the relatively consistent dollar
amount of advertising and promotional spending by the Company in each fiscal
quarter. In addition, fluctuations in net sales and operating income in any
fiscal quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product
introductions.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.
 
     The following table sets forth the Company's principal owned and leased
manufacturing and research and development facilities as of August 29, 1997. The
leases expire at various times through 2011, subject to certain renewal options.
 

 
     The Company also occupies numerous offices, assembly and distribution
facilities and warehouses in the United States and abroad. The Company considers
its properties to be generally in good condition and believes
 

that its facilities are adequate for its operations and provide sufficient
capacity to meet its anticipated requirements. In addition, the Company leases
approximately 232,000 square feet of space for its principal offices in New
York, New York and owns an office building of approximately 57,000 square feet
in Melville, New York. The Company also operates free-standing retail stores,
including 12 for the Estee Lauder brand, four for Clinique, 23 for Origins and
27 for M.A.C.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The Company is involved in various routine legal proceedings incident to
the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that the outcome of
all pending legal proceedings in the aggregate will not have a material adverse
effect on its business or financial condition.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter
ended June 30, 1997.
 



                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The Company's Class A Common Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the cash dividends
per share declared in each quarter of fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996.
 

 
- ------------------
(a) Prior to the initial public offering on November 16, 1995, there was no
    public market for the Class A Common Stock.
(b) Denotes price per share in the initial public offering. The lowest sales
    price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape was $31 3/4.
 
     The Company expects to continue the payment of cash dividends in the
future, but there can be no assurance that such payment of cash dividends will
continue.
 
     As of August 29, 1997, there were approximately 2,372 record holders of
Class A Common Stock and 12 record holders of Class B Common Stock.
 

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The table below summarizes recent financial information for the Company.
For further information, refer to the audited financial statements and the notes
thereto contained elsewhere herein.
 

 
- ------------------
(a) Net earnings for 1993 include a one-time charge of $13.5 million
    attributable to the cumulative effect of adopting Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 106, 'Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
    Benefits Other Than Pensions,' and Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 109, 'Accounting for Income Taxes.'
 
(b) Presented on a pro forma basis. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements.
 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     The Company manufactures skin care, makeup and fragrance products which are
distributed in over 100 countries and territories. The following is a
comparative summary of operating results for fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995 and
reflects the basis of presentation described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements for all periods presented:
 

 

     The following table sets forth certain consolidated statement of earnings
data as a percentage of net sales:
 

 
NET SALES
 
     Net sales in fiscal 1997 increased 6% to $3,381.6 million as compared to
fiscal 1996 and 10% to $3,194.5 million for fiscal 1996 as compared to fiscal
1995. In fiscal 1997, net sales increased as a result of new product
introductions across all categories, the global rollout of recent women's and
men's fragrance introductions, and the continued solid performance of existing
products. Fiscal 1997 includes a full year of sales of Bobbi Brown as compared
to eight months of sales in fiscal 1996, in which a 100% interest was acquired
in late October 1995. In fiscal 1996, increases reflected the strength of new
products in all product categories and continued strong growth in sales of
existing products at existing points of sale. Additionally, fiscal 1996 as
compared to fiscal 1995 included twelve months of sales versus six months of
sales of Make-Up Art Cosmetics Limited ('M.A.C.'), in which a majority equity
interest was acquired in December 1994, and eight months of sales of Bobbi
Brown. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar which began in fiscal 1996 has
negatively impacted net sales by approximately $87.0 million and $35.0 million
for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively. Fiscal 1995 net sales were
favorably impacted by approximately $100.0 million due to foreign currency
translation. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales
would have increased 9% and 11% for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively.
 
     Net sales of skin care products in fiscal 1997 increased 1% to $1,305.5
million as compared to fiscal 1996 and, in fiscal 1996, increased 6% to $1,287.3
million as compared to fiscal 1995. In fiscal 1997, the increase was
attributable to the introduction of Fruition Extra, Advanced Sun Care Products,
Moisture On-Line, and Nutritious Bio-Protein Moisture Complex, along with the
continued growth of existing products such as LipZone, All About Lips and
Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion. These increases were partially
offset by lower sales of Turnaround Cream and ThighZone Body Streamlining
Complex. In fiscal 1996, the increase was due in part to the launch of Moisture
On-Call and DayWear Super Anti-Oxidant Complex and the continued success of
existing products such as Daily Eye Saver, ThighZone Body Streamlining Complex,
Advanced Night Repair Protective Recovery Complex and Dramatically Different
Moisturizing Lotion, which were partially offset by lower sales of Turnaround
Cream. Net sales of makeup products increased 11% to $1,253.4 million in fiscal
1997 and 13% to $1,131.6 million in fiscal 1996. In fiscal 1997, the sales

growth was primarily due to the introduction of City Base Compact Foundation,
Long Last Soft Shine Lipstick, Virtual Skin, Futurist Age-Resisting Makeup, and
Indelible Lipstick, and increased sales from existing M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown
products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Long Last
Lipstick and More than Mascara. In fiscal 1996, the net sales increase reflects
the inclusion of M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown product lines, which are predominantly
makeup products, the launch of True Lipstick, and higher sales of existing
products such as Enlighten Skin-Enhancing Makeup and Soft Finish Makeup. Net
sales of fragrance products increased 6% to $822.7 million in fiscal 1997 and
14% to $775.6 million in fiscal 1996. In fiscal 1997, the sales growth was led
by the successful United States
 

introduction of 'tommy girl,' the European/Asian launch of 'tommy,' along with
the European introduction of Kiton. The continuing domestic success of 'tommy'
and Estee Lauder pleasures also contributed to the increased net sales. New
fragrance introductions cannibalized some existing fragrance sales, primarily,
Knowing and Beautiful, although these products continue to record impressive
sales results. The increase in net sales in fiscal 1996 was driven by the
outstanding debut of Estee Lauder pleasures along with the success of 'tommy,'
as well as the Company's classic fragrances, such as Beautiful and White Linen,
which continued to generate impressive sales. The introduction of new products
may have some cannibalization effect on existing products, which is taken into
account by the Company in its business planning.
 
     In fiscal 1997, net sales increased in the Americas and Europe, the Middle
East & Africa. Net sales in the Americas rose 8% to $1,939.4 million in fiscal
1997, as compared to a 14% increase to $1,799.4 million in fiscal 1996. In
fiscal 1997, the increase is attributable to the sales of new products across
all categories, particularly those in the fragrance category. Solid double digit
increases were achieved in M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown. A generally lackluster retail
environment for most of the year impacted core brand sales. The increase in
fiscal 1996 reflected the sales of new products across all categories (including
those from M.A.C. and Bobbi Brown) and strong sales growth of existing products
at existing points of sale in the United States. In Europe, the Middle East &
Africa, net sales increased 6% to $909.3 million in fiscal 1997, as compared to
a 9% increase to $855.9 million in fiscal 1996. Excluding the impact of foreign
currency translation, net sales would have increased 11% and 8%, for fiscal 1997
and fiscal 1996, respectively. In fiscal 1997, higher net sales were achieved in
the United Kingdom, the distributor and travel retail businesses, Italy, and
from the inclusion of sales from the Company's fragrance joint venture. These
increases were partially offset by lower sales in Germany and France resulting
from the impact of foreign currency translation and the continuing difficult
retail environments. The increase in fiscal 1996 reflected strong net sales
performances in South Africa, Spain, Italy, and the travel retail businesses,
partially offset by lower net sales in Germany. In Asia/Pacific net sales
decreased 1% to $532.9 million in fiscal 1997, as compared to a 1% increase to
$539.2 million in fiscal 1996. On a local currency basis, Asia/Pacific sales
increased 6% and 7% for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively. In fiscal
1997, all markets reported local currency sales increases with strong
performances in Thailand, Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, New Zealand, and Malaysia.
All markets in fiscal 1996 reported sales increases with strong sales growth in
Taiwan, Korea, and Hong Kong. Despite increased sales on a local currency basis,

Japan's sales in fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, were unfavorably impacted by the
strength of the U.S. dollar versus the yen. The Company strategically staggers
its new product launches by geographic markets, which may account for
differences in regional sales growth.
 
COST OF SALES
 
     Cost of sales in fiscal 1997 was 22.6% of net sales compared with 22.9% of
net sales in fiscal 1996 and 23.3% of net sales in fiscal 1995. These decreases
primarily reflect the efficiencies achieved as a result of the Company's
continuing efforts to globalize its sourcing and manufacturing activities, as
well as shifts in product mix.
 
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
     Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 66.8% of net
sales in fiscal 1997, compared with 67.4% and 68.8% of net sales in fiscal 1996
and fiscal 1995, respectively. This decrease reflects operating expenses growing
at a slower rate than net sales primarily due to efficiencies achieved in the
selling and general and administrative areas in fiscal 1997 and in the selling
and marketing functions in fiscal 1996.
 
OPERATING INCOME
 
     Operating income rose 16% to $359.1 million in fiscal 1997 and 34% to
$310.3 million in fiscal 1996. Operating margins were 10.6% in 1997, compared
with 9.7% and 7.9% in fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995, respectively. The increases
in fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996 were due to higher net sales, cost of sales
efficiencies and total operating expenses growing at a slower rate than net
sales.
 
     Operating income in the Americas increased by 43% to $189.9 million in
fiscal 1997, as compared to a 40% increase to $133.0 million in fiscal 1996. In
fiscal 1997, the increase was primarily due to net sales increases in the United
States, Canada, and the inclusion of twelve months of operating results for
Bobbi Brown, as compared
 

to eight months in fiscal 1996. In fiscal 1996, the increase was due to higher
net sales in the United States, the inclusion of twelve months of operating
results from M.A.C. as compared with six months in fiscal 1995 and the inclusion
of operating results from Bobbi Brown since its acquisition in October 1995. In
Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 6% to $122.7
million in fiscal 1997, as compared to a 60% increase to $115.5 million in
fiscal 1996. In fiscal 1997, the increase was primarily due to increased
operating income in the United Kingdom, Italy, South Africa, Eastern Europe, the
distributor and travel retail businesses, and the inclusion of twelve months of
operating results from Bobbi Brown as compared to eight months in fiscal 1996,
offset by lower results in Belgium, Austria, Germany and France. In fiscal 1996,
the increase related to improved operating results in Italy, the Nordic region,
Austria and the travel retail business, partially offset by lower operating
results in France resulting from general strikes and an unsettled business
environment and in Germany due to a sluggish economic environment. In

Asia/Pacific, operating income decreased 25% to $46.5 million in fiscal 1997, as
compared to a decrease of 3% to $61.8 million in fiscal 1996. In fiscal 1997,
the decrease was due to the continuing unfavorable translation impact of the
strength of the U.S. dollar versus the yen, lower operating income in Japan
reflecting the difficult retail environment, and incremental promotional
spending partially offset by strong results in Australia, Thailand, Korea,
Singapore, and Malaysia. In fiscal 1996, the decrease was due to the impact of
unfavorable foreign currency translation and expenditures associated with the
launch of Origins in Japan, partially offset by strong results in Taiwan, Korea
and Hong Kong.
 
INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
 
     Interest income, net was $3.8 million in fiscal 1997 as compared to $2.7
million in fiscal 1996 and $2.1 million in fiscal 1995. The increase in fiscal
1997 and fiscal 1996 was due to increased interest income resulting principally
from higher average domestic and overseas net cash positions which were
partially offset by the elimination of interest income from stockholders,
combined with lower interest expense as a result of lower debt levels.
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state and local
income taxes. The effective rate for income taxes in fiscal 1997 was 42.0% as
compared to 44.2% in fiscal 1996 and 46.4% in fiscal 1995. These rates
principally reflect the effect of state and local taxes, higher tax rates in
certain foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. The decrease
in the effective income tax rate in fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996 was principally
attributable to an increase in profits in lower taxed countries, the lessened
impact of a relatively higher Japanese rate and the reduced relative negative
impact of a stockholder's rights to receive certain U.S. royalty payments by
reason of the Company's purchase of those rights in November 1995.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     The Company's principal sources of funds have historically been, and are
expected to continue to be, cash flow from operations and borrowings under
uncommitted and committed credit lines provided by banks in the United States
and abroad. At June 30, 1997, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of
$255.6 million compared with $254.8 million at June 30, 1996.
 
     Uncommitted lines of credit amounted to $293.1 million at June 30, 1997, of
which $9.1 million were used. Unused committed lines of credit available to the
Company at June 30, 1997 amounted to $401.2 million. In July 1996, the Company
entered into a new, five-year $400.0 million committed credit facility that
replaced $310.0 million of committed lines of credit, at more favorable terms
and pricing. Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization (including
short-term debt) was 3% at June 30, 1997 and 14% at June 30, 1996.
 
     In fiscal 1995, the Company redeemed $6.2 million of its 12.02% debentures,
$1.8 million of its 11.95% debentures and $20.9 million of its 8.61% debentures
which were held by certain stockholders and a third party. Additionally, the
Company redeemed $1.1 million of preferred shares in June 1995.
 

     Net cash provided by operating activities increased 47% to $253.1 million
in fiscal 1997 as compared to fiscal 1996 and 7% to $172.0 million in fiscal
1996 as compared to fiscal 1995. For fiscal 1997, this increase is primarily
attributable to the Company's increased profitability, reduced inventory levels,
and an increase in other accrued liabilities, partially offset by higher
accounts receivable as a result of greater net sales and the inclusion
 

in fiscal 1996 of the Company's purchase of a stockholder's rights to receive
certain U.S. royalty payments and the repayment of stockholder loans receivable
for $103.4 million. For fiscal 1996, this increase primarily reflects the
Company's improved profitability and repayment of stockholder loans receivable,
partially offset by an increase in inventory and the Company's purchase during
fiscal 1996 of a stockholder's rights to receive certain U.S. royalty payments
for $88.5 million. Net cash used for investing activities in fiscal 1997 was
$130.7 million, compared with $74.5 million in fiscal 1996 and $50.5 million in
fiscal 1995. Fiscal 1997 principally reflects capital expenditures and the cost
of an additional interest in M.A.C. during the year. Net cash used for fiscal
1996 and fiscal 1995 principally reflects capital expenditures and the cash
portion of the acquisitions of a 100% interest in Bobbi Brown in fiscal 1996 and
a majority equity interest in M.A.C. in fiscal 1995. Through contractual
agreement, the Company has the right to acquire the remaining interest in M.A.C.
at certain times between fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1999. Financing activities for
the three years ended June 30, 1997 reflect dividends paid, borrowings and
repayment of debt and, in fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, proceeds from the
issuance of common stock in the Company's secondary and initial public
offerings. The current ratio of the Company was 1.7 for fiscal 1997, compared
with 1.6 for fiscal 1996. This increase is primarily due to lower debt levels in
fiscal 1997 as compared to fiscal 1996.
 
     Capital expenditures amounted to $82.9 million, $63.4 million and $46.0
million in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Spending in all three years
primarily reflects the continued upgrade of manufacturing equipment, dies and
molds, store and counter construction and information technology advancements.
 
     The Company is in the process of constructing a state-of-the-art warehouse
and distribution center in Lachen, Switzerland, which has been designed to
accommodate the Company's projected future growth. The Company to date has spent
approximately $10.0 million. The total cost of the new distribution center is
estimated to be approximately $19.0 million at current exchange rates, with
completion anticipated within 12 months.
 
     Dividend payments were $63.4 million in fiscal 1997, compared with $107.3
million in fiscal 1996 and $36.3 million in fiscal 1995. The decrease in fiscal
1997 as compared to fiscal 1996 reflects the inclusion in fiscal 1996 of special
dividends which were made immediately prior to the recapitalization described in
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. In fiscal 1996, the increase
reflects payments of $23.4 million of dividends on the Company's $6.50
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and the declaration by Estee Lauder AG
Lachen, a subsidiary of the Company, of a special cash dividend in the aggregate
amount of $20.0 million payable to the then holders of its SFr 1,000 par value
shares. The Company also declared a special dividend, payable to the then
holders of its common stock, consisting of interests in corporations and

partnerships holding certain assets of the Company, which were unrelated to the
Company's core business, and $29.6 million in cash. The aggregate fair value of
the assets in such corporations and partnerships was $19.6 million. In fiscal
1996 and fiscal 1995, dividends also include amounts paid on the Company's
Participating Class I Preferred Stock, which stock ceased to be outstanding
after the Company completed the recapitalization. In fiscal 1996, the Company
established an initial policy of declaring quarterly dividends at the rate of
$.085 per share on its newly issued Class A Common Stock and Class B Common
Stock commencing with the quarter ended March 31, 1996. In fiscal 1997 and
fiscal 1996, dividends declared and paid on such common stock totalled
approximately $40.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively.
 
     The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts and purchases
foreign currency options to hedge foreign currency transactions for periods
consistent with its identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities
is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on the Company's
costs and on the cash flows which it receives from its foreign subsidiaries.
Almost all foreign currency contracts are denominated in currencies of major
industrial countries and are with large financial institutions rated as strong
investment grade by a major rating agency. The contracts have varying maturities
with none exceeding 24 months. As hedges, gains and losses on forward contracts
are reflected in operating income along with the corresponding underlying
transactions. Premiums on foreign currency options are amortized over the period
being hedged. Costs associated with entering into such contracts have not been
material to the Company's financial results. As a matter of policy, the Company
does not engage in currency speculation. At June 30, 1997, the Company had
contracts to exchange foreign currencies in the form of purchased currency
options and forward exchange contracts in the amount of $114.6 million and
$241.5 million, respectively. Foreign currencies exchanged under these contracts
are principally the Belgian franc, U.K. pound, Swiss franc, and Japanese yen.
 

     The effects of inflation have not been significant to the overall operating
results of the Company in recent years. Generally, the Company has been able to
increase selling prices sufficiently to offset cost increases which have been
moderate.
 
     The Company believes that cash on hand, internally generated cash flow, 
available credit lines and access to credit markets will be adequate to support
currently planned business operations and capital expenditures both on a 
near-term and long-term basis.
 
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The Company conducts business in many foreign currencies. As a result, it
is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk due to the effects that
foreign exchange rate movements of these currencies, principally against the
Belgian franc, U.K. pound, and Swiss franc, have on the Company's costs and on
the cash flows which it receives from its foreign subsidiaries. The Company
believes that currently it has no other material market risk exposures. The
Company addresses its risks through a controlled program of risk management that
includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company primarily
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and purchases foreign

currency options to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange
rates, and accordingly categorizes these instruments as entered into for
purposes other than trading. See Note 8 'Financial Instruments' in the
consolidated financial statements.
 
     The Company uses a value-at-risk model to assess the market risk of its
derivative financial instruments. Value-at-risk represents the potential losses
for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors, for a
specified time period and confidence level. The Company estimates value-at-risk
across all of its derivative financial instruments using a model with historical
volatilities and correlations calculated over the past 250 day period. The
Company's measured value-at-risk from holding such derivative instruments, using
a variance/co-variance model with a 95 percent confidence level, assuming normal
market conditions at June 30, 1997 was immaterial.
 
     The Company's calculated value-at-risk exposure represents an estimate of
reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on its portfolio of
derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future
market rates and are not necessarily indicative of actual results which may
occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected loss
that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those
estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures,
and the timing thereof, and changes in the Company's portfolio of derivative
financial instruments during the year.
 
     The Company, however, believes that any loss incurred would be offset by
the effects of currency movements on the respective underlying hedged
transactions. In addition, the maximum exposure associated with the purchase of
options is limited to the premiums paid, which are recognized against income
over the period being hedged.
 
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
     In March 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ('FASB') issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ('SFAS') No. 128, 'Earnings Per
Share.' This statement establishes standards for computing and presenting
earnings per share ('EPS'), replacing the presentation of currently required
Primary EPS with a presentation of Basic EPS. For entities with complex capital
structures, the statement requires the dual presentation of both Basic EPS and
Diluted EPS on the face of the statement of earnings. Under this new standard,
Basic EPS is computed based on weighted average common shares outstanding and
contingently issuable shares (which satisfy certain conditions) and excludes any
potential dilution; Diluted EPS reflects potential dilution from the exercise or
conversion of securities into common stock, or from other contracts to issue
common stock, and is similar to the currently required Fully Diluted EPS. SFAS
No. 128 is effective for financial statements issued for periods ending after
December 15, 1997, including interim periods, and earlier application is not
permitted. When adopted, the Company will be required to restate its EPS data
for all prior periods presented. The Company does not expect the impact of the
adoption of this statement to be materially different to previously reported EPS
amounts.



     In January 1997, the Securities and Exchange Commission expanded existing
disclosure requirements with respect to certain derivative instruments. The new
rules require enhanced descriptions in the footnotes to the financial statements
and also require certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures outside the
financial statements regarding market risk related to the derivative
instruments. The rules, which are effective for fiscal years ending after June
15, 1997, were adopted by the Company in fiscal 1997.
 
     In July 1996, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the FASB reached a
consensus on Issue 96-14, 'Accounting for the Costs Associated with Modifying
Computer Software for the Year 2000,' which requires that costs associated with
modifying computer software for the Year 2000 be expensed as incurred. The
Company believes, based upon its internal reviews and other factors, that future
external and internal costs to be incurred relating to the modification of
internal-use software for the Year 2000 will not have a material effect on the
Company's results of operations or financial position.
 
     In October 1995, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123, 'Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.' This statement encourages, but does not require, companies to
account for stock compensation awards based on their fair value at the date the
awards are granted. The resulting compensation award would be shown as an
expense on the statement of earnings. Alternatively, the statement allows for
the continued use of Accounting Principles Board ('APB') Opinion No. 25,
'Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,' which generally results in no
compensation cost for most fixed stock-option plans, with pro forma disclosure
of net earnings and earnings per share determined as if the fair value based
method had been applied in measuring compensation cost. The Company adopted the
new standard in fiscal 1997 by continuing to apply the provisions of APB Opinion
No. 25 while providing the required pro forma disclosures as if the fair value
method had been applied.
 
     In March 1995, the FASB issued SFAS No. 121, 'Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,' which is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995. SFAS No. 121
requires that long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset in
question may not be recoverable. The new standard, which was adopted in fiscal
1997, did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations,
cash flows or financial position.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
     The information required by this item appears beginning on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     Not applicable.
 

                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The other information required by Item 10 will be included in the Company's
Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders which will be filed
within 120 days after the close of the Company's fiscal year ended June 30, 1997
and such information is incorporated herein by reference to such Proxy
Statement.
 
     The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the
executive officers of the Company.
 

 
     LEONARD A. LAUDER has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company
since 1982 and as President from 1972 until 1995. He became Chairman of the
Board of Directors of the Company in 1995. Mr. Lauder formally joined the
Company in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United States Navy. Since
joining the Company, he has served in various positions, including executive
officer positions other than those described above. He is Chairman of the Board
of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the
University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and a Director of
RSL Communications Ltd. He also served as a member of the White House Advisory
Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.
 
     RONALD S. LAUDER has served as Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and
Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc. since returning from government
service in 1987. Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and has served in various
capacities, including those described above, since then. From 1983 to 1986, Mr.
Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European and NATO
Affairs. From 1986 to 1987, he served as U.S. Ambassador to Austria. Since 1990,
he has been Chairman of the Central European Development Corporation, an
investment company. He serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central
European Media Enterprises Ltd. and RSL Communications Ltd. and as Chairman of
the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art and is Chairman of the New

York State Research Council on Privatization.
 
     FRED H. LANGHAMMER has been President of the Company since 1995 and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company since 1985. He was Executive Vice President
from 1985 until 1995. Mr. Langhammer joined the Company in 1975 as President of
its operations in Japan and, in 1982, he was appointed Managing Director of the
Company's operations in Germany. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the
Cosmetics, Toiletries and Fragrance Association, The German American Chamber of
Commerce, Inc., the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies at Johns
Hopkins University and a Director of RSL Communications Ltd. He is also a Senior
Fellow of the Foreign Policy Association.
 

     ROBERT J. BIGLER is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company, a position he assumed in 1992. Before that, he had served as Senior
Vice President -- Controller of Estee Lauder International, Inc. from 1986. He
is a certified public accountant.
 
     DANIEL J. BRESTLE is President of Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and has been
the senior officer of that division since 1992. Prior thereto, he was President
of Prescriptives U.S.A. since 1988. Mr. Brestle joined the Company in 1978.
 
     ROBIN R. BURNS has served as President of Estee Lauder (U.S.A.) since 1990.
Her duties were expanded in 1995 to include Canada. She is a member of the Board
of Directors of the Cosmetics, Toiletries and Fragrance Association and of S.C.
Johnson & Son, Inc. and a member of the Board of Trustees and the Steering
Committee of Fashion Institute of Technology. Ms. Burns is also a founding
member of the National Retail Federations Associate Member Advisory Council and
a member of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation Advisory Board.
 
     ANDREW J. CAVANAUGH has been Senior Vice President -- Corporate Human
Resources since 1994. Mr. Cavanaugh joined the Company in 1988 as Executive
Director -- Human Resources. Since 1993, he has been a member of the Board of
Directors of Galoob Toys, Inc.
 
     JOHN B. CHILTON is Senior Vice President -- Global Operations and has been
in charge of the Company's global manufacturing operations since 1993. Before
that, Mr. Chilton managed the Company's United States manufacturing operations
since 1978. He joined the Company in 1973 as Managing Director of the Company's
manufacturing unit in the United Kingdom, and managed international operations
from 1974 to 1978.
 
     JOHN M. CORRIGAN is Senior Vice President -- Global Information Systems and
has been the senior officer in charge of information systems and technology
since joining the Company in 1990.
 
     JOSEPH GUBERNICK is Senior Vice President -- Research and Development of
the Company. Mr. Gubernick joined the Company in 1972 as Vice
President -- Research and Development.
 
     EVELYN H. LAUDER has been Senior Corporate Vice President of the Company
since 1989, and previously served as Vice President and in other executive
capacities since first joining the Company in 1959 as Education Director. She is

a member of the Board of Overseers, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a
member of the Board of Trustees of Central Park Conservancy, Inc. and The
Trinity School in New York City, a member of the Board of Directors of The Parks
Council and the Founder and President of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.
 
     WILLIAM P. LAUDER is President of Origins Natural Resources, Inc., and has
been the senior officer of such division since its inception in 1990. Prior
thereto, he served in various positions since joining the Company in 1986. He is
a member of the Board of Trustees of The Trinity School in New York City and the
Board of Directors of the Educational Foundation of Fashion Industries.
 
     MARY CARROLL LINDER has been Senior Vice President -- Global Communications
since 1996. From 1992 until she joined the Company, Ms. Linder headed the
communication area of Grand Metropolitan, PLC, a broadly based consumer products
company, as Group Corporate Communications Director.
 
     SAUL H. MAGRAM is Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
the Company. Mr. Magram has been the senior legal officer of the Company since
he joined in 1968.
 
     ROBERT A. NIELSEN is President of Aramis Inc. and President of
Prescriptives Inc. and has been the senior officer of those divisions since 1992
and 1995, respectively. Mr. Nielsen first joined the Company in 1960 and has
been associated with it on three occasions since that date. From 1990 to 1992,
Mr. Nielsen was a management development consultant in the fashion industry.
 
     JEANETTE S. WAGNER is President of Estee Lauder International, Inc., a
position she has held since 1985. Mrs. Wagner joined the Company in 1975 to head
the activity of the Estee Lauder brand in international markets. Prior to
assuming her current responsibilities, Mrs. Wagner served as Senior Vice
President -- Corporate Development from 1982 to 1985. Mrs. Wagner is a member of
the Board of Directors of the American Greetings Corporation, The Stride Rite
Corporation and Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc. In 1994, Mrs. Wagner was
appointed by President Clinton to serve on the White House Advisory Committee on
Trade Policy and Negotiations, and she currently serves as the Chairman of the
Fragrance Foundation, an industry group.
 

     Each executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual
meeting of the Company's Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable
employment agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     The information required to be included herein by Items 11 through 13 of
Form 10-K will be included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed within 120 days after the close of
the Company's fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 and such information is
incorporated herein by reference to such Proxy Statement.

 

                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS OF FORM 8-K.
 
      (a)  1, 2. Financial Statements and Schedules -- See index on Page F-1.
 
          3. Exhibits --
 

 


 
- ------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 
+ Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
   (b) Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of the
  period covered by this report.
 



                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                                          By        /s/  ROBERT J. BIGLER       
                                             ----------------------------
                                                     Robert J. Bigler
                                                  Senior Vice President
                                               and Chief Financial Officer
 
Date: September 4, 1997
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 

 
- ------------------
* By signing his name hereto, Robert J. Bigler signs this document in the
  capacities indicated above and on behalf of the persons indicated above
  pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by such persons and filed
  herewith.
 
                                          By   /s/  ROBERT J. BIGLER
                                             ---------------------------
                                                    Robert J. Bigler
                                                   (Attorney-in-Fact)
 


                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
 

 
     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.
 
                                      F-1



                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To The Estee Lauder Companies Inc.:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Estee
Lauder Companies Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of June 30,
1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended June 30, 1997. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of The Estee Lauder Companies
Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
June 30, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
New York, New York
August 12, 1997
 
                                      F-2



                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-3




                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-4


                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-5



                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-6



                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the
'Company'). In November 1995, the Company, its stockholders and certain
affiliates consummated a recapitalization (the 'Recapitalization'). As a result
of the Recapitalization, the Company has three classes of stock outstanding
(i.e., Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and $6.50 Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock), and owns a majority equity interest in Make-Up Art
Cosmetics Limited and a related entity (collectively, 'M.A.C.'), and all the
outstanding shares of Estee Lauder AG Lachen ('Lachen') and Estee Lauder Realty
Corp. ('EL Realty'), which ownership interests were previously held by certain
members of the Lauder family. The Recapitalization included the following
transactions: (i) the conversion of all the outstanding shares of the Company
(other than the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock) into shares of
newly created Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, (ii) the exchange
of all outstanding shares of preferred stock of two subsidiaries of the Company
that were not then owned by the Company for shares of Class A Common Stock and
Class B Common Stock, (iii) the acquisition by the Company of all the shares of
Lachen not then owned by the Company and all of the outstanding shares of EL
Realty in exchange for shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock
and (iv) the acquisition by the Company of all the outstanding partnership
interests of Lauder Family Partners, L.P. (which initially acquired the interest
in M.A.C.) in exchange for shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common
Stock. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.
 
     Certain amounts in the financial statements for prior years have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation for comparative purposes.
 
  PRO FORMA NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
 
     Pro forma net earnings per common share amounts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1996 are based on the weighted average common and dilutive common
equivalent (e.g., stock options) shares outstanding during the year. As a result
of the Recapitalization and the issuance of common stock in the Company's
initial public offering (the 'Offering'), as described in Note 2, the pro forma
weighted average number of outstanding common shares has been computed assuming
the Recapitalization occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1996, and includes the
amount of shares issued by the Company in the Offering from the date of issuance
plus the effect of common shares contingently issuable, primarily from stock
options, from that same date.
 
     Pro forma net earnings per common share are computed by dividing pro forma
net earnings applicable to common shares by the pro forma weighted average
common shares outstanding. The net earnings attributable to common stock
reflects recurring preferred stock dividends on the Company's $6.50 Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock as well as nonrecurring preferred stock dividends

associated with several classes of preferred stock converted or exchanged into
common shares in the Recapitalization. For purposes of computing pro forma net
earnings per common share, dividends paid or accrued on the classes of preferred
stock which were converted or exchanged in the Recapitalization are assumed not
to have occurred and are excluded from the computation. Accordingly, net
earnings per common share for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996 are reflected
on a pro forma basis only, as follows:
 

 
                                      F-7

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
 
     Net earnings per common share amounts for fiscal 1997 were computed by
dividing net earnings after deducting preferred stock dividends on the Company's
$6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock by the weighted average number of
common and dilutive common equivalent (e.g., stock options) shares outstanding
during the period.
 
  CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS
 
     All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are
translated at year-end rates of exchange, while revenue and expenses are
translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the year. Unrealized
translation gains or losses are generally reported in stockholders' equity as
cumulative translation adjustments. Such adjustments amounted to $24.4 million
and $31.7 million of unrealized translation losses in fiscal 1997 and fiscal
1996, respectively.
 
     The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts and purchases
foreign currency options to hedge foreign currency transactions for periods
consistent with its identified exposures. Premiums on foreign currency options
are amortized over the option period being hedged. The accompanying consolidated
statements of earnings include net exchange gains of $8.8 million, $7.2 million
and $0.9 million in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively (see Note 8).
 

  INVENTORY AND PROMOTIONAL MERCHANDISE
 
     Inventory and promotional merchandise include only items saleable or usable
in future periods and are stated at the lower of first-in, first-out cost or
market. Promotional merchandise is charged to expense at the time the
merchandise is shipped to the Company's customers.
 

 
  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. For financial statement
purposes, depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from 3 to 40 years. Leasehold
improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the
lives of the respective leases or the expected useful lives.
 

 
                                      F-8

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
     Intangible assets consist of purchased royalty rights as well as goodwill.
Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over
the value of their underlying net assets and is amortized on the straight-line
method over forty years. Intangible assets are net of accumulated amortization
of $34.4 million and $13.7 million at June 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
  TRADEMARKS
 
     Under agreements covering the purchase by the Company of trademarks for a
percentage of related sales, royalty payments totaling $15.1 million, $26.1
million and $35.7 million in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, have been
charged to income. Such payments are made to stockholders of the Company. During
fiscal 1996, the Company purchased a stockholder's rights to receive certain
U.S. royalty payments for $88.5 million, which amount is being amortized over a
five-year period. In fiscal 1997 and 1996, $17.7 million and $11.1 million,
respectively, of this amount was amortized as a charge to income.
 
  LONG-LIVED ASSETS
 
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ('SFAS') No. 121, 'Accounting
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
Of,' requires that long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset in
question may not be recoverable. The adoption of SFAS No. 121, in fiscal 1997
did not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.
 
  REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
     Revenues from merchandise sales are recorded at the time the product is
shipped to the customer. The Company reports its sales levels on a net sales
basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual
returns and the amount of reserves established for anticipated returns.
 
  ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION
 
     Costs associated with advertising are expensed during the year as incurred.
Global advertising and promotional expenses which primarily include television,
radio, and print media were $976.2 million, $921.2 million, and $847.7 million
in fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.
 
  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     Research and development costs, which amounted to $35.3 million, $32.9
million and $30.9 million in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, are

expensed as incurred.
 
  STOCK COMPENSATION
 
     In fiscal 1997, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123,
'Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation' ('SFAS No. 123'), by continuing to
apply the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ('APB') Opinion No. 25,
'Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,' while providing the required pro
forma disclosures as if the fair value method had been applied (see Note 14).
 
  CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
 
     The Company is a worldwide manufacturer and marketer of skin care, makeup
and fragrance products. Domestic and international sales are made primarily to
department stores, specialty retailers, perfumeries and pharmacies. The Company
grants credit to all qualified customers, but does not believe it is exposed
significantly to any undue concentration of credit risk.
 
                                      F-9

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash equivalents include $146.2 million and $146.3 million of short-term
time deposits at June 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Company considers all
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be
cash equivalents.
 
  STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
     Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
 

 
     Significant non-cash transactions:
 
          In November 1995, the Company effected the Recapitalization, as
     previously described under 'Principles of Consolidation.'
 
          In November 1995, the Company declared a special dividend consisting
     of interests in corporations and partnerships holding certain assets having

     a fair value of $19.6 million.
 
          On June 30, 1995, the Company issued 3.6 million shares of $6.50
     Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock in exchange for Class B nonvoting
     Common Stock of the Company owned by The Estee Lauder 1994 Trust (see Note
     12).
 
  MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses reported in those financial statements. Actual results could differ
from those estimates and assumptions.
 
  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
     In March 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ('FASB') issued
SFAS No. 128, 'Earnings Per Share.' This statement establishes standards for
computing and presenting earnings per share ('EPS'), replacing the presentation
of currently required Primary EPS with a presentation of Basic EPS. For entities
with complex capital structures, the statement requires the dual presentation of
both Basic EPS and Diluted EPS on the face of the statement of earnings. Under
this new standard, Basic EPS is computed based on weighted average common shares
outstanding and contingently issuable shares (which satisfy certain conditions)
and excludes any potential dilution; Diluted EPS reflects potential dilution
from the exercise or conversion of securities into common stock, or from other
contracts to issue common stock, and is similar to the currently required Fully
Diluted EPS. SFAS No. 128 is effective for financial statements issued for
periods ending after December 15, 1997, including interim periods, and earlier
application is not permitted. When adopted, the Company will be required to
restate its EPS data for all prior periods presented. The Company does not
expect the impact of the adoption of this statement to be materially different
from previously reported EPS amounts.
 
NOTE 2 -- PUBLIC OFFERINGS
 
     In February 1997, the Company completed a secondary public offering of
8,064,750 shares of Class A Common Stock at an initial offering price of $47.00
per share. Of the 8,064,750 shares of Class A Common Stock offered, 849,750
shares were issued and sold by the Company, pursuant to an underwriters'
over-allotment provision, and 7,215,000 shares were sold by members of the
Lauder family.
 
     In November 1995, the Company completed an initial public offering of
17,606,252 shares of Class A Common Stock at an initial offering price of $26.00
per share. Of the 17,606,252 shares of Class A Common
 
                                      F-10

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Stock offered, 2,731,252 shares were issued and sold by the Company and
14,875,000 shares were sold by members of the Lauder family. Prior to the

Offering, there was no public market for the Company's capital stock.
 
     The Company did not receive any of the proceeds from the sales of the
shares sold by the Lauder family members. The net proceeds to the Company from
the secondary and initial public offerings, after deducting applicable
underwriting discounts and offering expenses, were $38.1 and $59.3 million
respectively. These net proceeds to the Company were used for general corporate
purposes and to repay short-term debt.
 
NOTE 3 -- ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES
 
     The Company holds a majority equity interest in M.A.C. and, at the end of
March 1997, the Company acquired an additional interest in M.A.C. Had the
acquisition been completed as of July 1, 1996, the pro forma impact on the
Company's reported results of operations would not have been material. The
Company has the right to acquire the remaining interest in M.A.C. at certain
times between fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1999.
 
     Prior to the purchase by the Company of all the remaining interests, the
surviving founders of M.A.C. may reacquire the interests in M.A.C. purchased
from them in certain events if the Company does not exercise its rights to
purchase the remaining interests or if the Company is not controlled by members
of the Lauder family. The purchase price to reacquire the M.A.C. interests is
the original purchase price paid by the Company (including Lauder Family
Partners, L.P.) plus interest. The minority interest in M.A.C. as of June 30,
1997 and 1996 of $21.0 million and $21.4 million, respectively, is included in
other noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
     In October 1995, the Company acquired a 100% interest in Bobbi Brown
essentials, a line of professional color makeup and skin care products. The
Company acquired the interest by issuing short-term notes, which matured in
January 1996. Additional contingent earn-out payments may be made in later
periods.
 
     These acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases and the financial
statements include the results of their operations from the dates of
acquisition.
 
NOTE 4 -- NOTES PAYABLE TO BANKS
 
     The Company has borrowings under a number of available uncommitted lines of
credit. These borrowings, which are generally repayable at maturity, carried an
average interest rate of 8.6% and 9.2% as of June 30, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. During fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, the maximum amount of notes
payable outstanding at the end of any month was approximately $131.6 million and
$129.9 million, respectively. During fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, the monthly
average amount outstanding was approximately $45.6 million and $53.5 million,
respectively, and the annualized monthly weighted average interest rate was
approximately 6.9% and 7.8%, respectively. As of June 30, 1997 and 1996, unused
lines of credit available to the Company under these uncommitted borrowing
agreements aggregated $284.0 million and $180.3 million, respectively.
 
     As of June 30, 1997 and 1996, borrowings available to the Company under
revolving credit agreements were $400.0 million and $310.0 million,

respectively. In July 1996, the Company entered into a new five-year, $400.0
million committed credit facility that replaced the $310.0 million committed
lines of credit at more favorable terms and pricing. The new facility includes a
fee on the total commitment thereunder payable at an annual rate of .06% versus
comparable fees of .07% and .18% under the previous facilities. The agreements
contain financial and other restrictive covenants, including limitations on
indebtedness and liens. At June 30, 1997 and 1996, the Company was in compliance
with all such restrictions. No borrowings have been made under these agreements.
 
                                      F-11

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 5 -- INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision for income taxes is comprised of the following:
 

 
     A reconciliation between the provision for income taxes computed by
applying the statutory Federal income tax rate to earnings before income taxes
and minority interest and the actual provision for income taxes is as follows:
 

 
                                      F-12

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     Significant components of the Company's deferred income tax assets and
liabilities as of June 30, 1997 and 1996 were as follows:
 

 
     As of June 30, 1997 and 1996, the Company had current net deferred tax
assets of $67.9 million and $72.1 million, which are included in prepaid

expenses and other current assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets, and noncurrent net deferred tax assets of $59.9 million and $43.1
million, respectively.
 
     Federal income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on
$332.0 million, $319.7 million and $297.0 million of undistributed earnings of
international subsidiaries at June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The
Company intends to permanently reinvest these earnings in its foreign
operations, except where it is able to repatriate these earnings to the U.S.
without any material incremental tax provision.
 
     As of June 30, 1997 and 1996, certain international subsidiaries had tax
loss carryforwards for local tax purposes of approximately $30.5 million and
$33.0 million, respectively. With the exception of $16.3 million of losses with
an indefinite carryforward period as of June 30, 1997, these losses expire
primarily during the next 5 years. The gross deferred tax assets recognized in
connection with these tax loss carryforwards have been reduced to the extent to
which benefit has been taken. A full valuation allowance has been provided
against the remaining deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carryforwards.
 
     Earnings before income taxes and minority interest include amounts
contributed by the Company's international operations of $263.5 million, $196.1
million and $144.0 million for fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
NOTE 6 -- OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
     Other accrued liabilities consist of the following:
 

 
                                      F-13

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 7 -- LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consists of the following:
 


 
     The 6.85% and 6.99% loans payable are unsecured and have been amended so
that the covenants the Company is required to meet are essentially the same as
those in the $400.0 million credit facility described in Note 4. At June 30,
1997, the Company was in compliance with all such financial covenants. The
quarterly interest rate for the loan payable due December 28, 1997, is equal to
the average of the prime rates in effect on the last business day of each
calendar month in the applicable period.
 
NOTE 8 -- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT RISK
 
     The Company selectively uses a combination of derivative financial
instruments to maintain the value-at-risk inherent in its foreign currency
exposures within acceptable parameters, as determined by senior management. The
purpose of this approach is to reduce the Company's exposure to market risk
resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Derivative financial
instruments currently utilized by the Company principally include forward
exchange contracts and purchased foreign currency options. Hedges are executed
to facilitate the netting of offsetting currency exposures, to ensure control
over the use of derivative financial instruments and to minimize transaction
costs. The company does not hold or enter into financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes.
 
     The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with parties that
have at least an 'A' (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these
contracts are major financial institutions and the Company does not have
significant exposure to any one counterparty. Management believes that risk of
loss is remote and in any event would be immaterial.
 
  FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge purchases,

receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies for periods
consistent with its identified exposures. Gains and losses related to qualifying
hedges of these exposures are deferred and recognized in operating income when
the underlying hedged transaction occurs. The Company also enters into purchased
foreign currency options to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high
probability that anticipated exposures will materialize. Any gains realized on
such options that qualify as hedges are deferred and recognized in operating
income when the underlying hedged transaction occurs. Foreign currency
transactions which do not qualify as hedges are marked-to-market on a current
basis with gains and losses recognized through income and reflected in operating
expenses. In addition, any previously deferred gains and losses on hedges which
are terminated prior to the transaction date are recognized in current income
when the hedge is terminated. The contracts have varying maturities with none
exceeding 24 months. Foreign currencies exchanged under these contracts are
principally the Belgian franc, U.K. pound, and Swiss franc.
 
                                      F-14

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     Deferred unrealized gains and losses, from derivative financial instruments
are presented in the following table:
 

 
  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:
 
     Cash and cash equivalents:
 
            The carrying amount approximates fair value, primarily because of
            the short maturity of these instruments.
 
     Long-term debt:
 
            The fair value of the Company's long-term debt was estimated based
            on the current rates offered to the Company for debt with the same
            remaining maturities.

 
     Cumulative redeemable preferred stock:
 
            The fair value of the cumulative redeemable preferred stock is
            estimated utilizing a cash flow analysis at a discount rate equal to
            rates offered to the Company for debt with maturities equal to the
            maximum life of the preferred stock.
 
     Foreign currency options and forward exchange contracts:
 
            The fair value of foreign currency options and forward exchange
            contracts is the estimated amount the Company would receive or pay
            to terminate the agreements.
 
     The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as
follows:
 

 
NOTE 9 -- PENSION AND DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS
 
     The Company maintains pension plans covering substantially all of its
full-time employees for its U.S. operations and a majority of its international
operations. Most plans provide pension benefits based primarily on years of
service and employees' earnings.
 
  RETIREMENT GROWTH ACCOUNT PLAN (U.S.)
 
     The Retirement Growth Account Plan is a trusted, noncontributory defined
benefit pension plan. The Company's funding policy consists of an annual
contribution at a rate that matches pension costs accrued, if any, but is not
less than the ERISA minimum, and is not more than the maximum amount deductible
for income tax purposes.
 
                                      F-15

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     The components of net periodic pension cost for the above plan were as
follows:
 

 
     The discount rate was 7.75% in fiscal 1997 and 1996 and 8.5% in fiscal
1995. In fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, the rate of increase in future compensation
levels used in determining net periodic pension cost was 7% and the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets was 9%.
 
     The Retirement Growth Account Plan's funded status and amounts recognized
in the Company's balance sheets are as follows:
 

 
  RESTORATION PLAN (U.S.)
 
     The Company also has an unfunded, nonqualified domestic benefit Restoration
Plan to provide benefits in excess of Internal Revenue Code limitations. Pension
expense for this plan was $3.1 million in fiscal 1997, $3.6 million in fiscal
1996 and $3.5 million in fiscal 1995. At June 30, 1997 and 1996, the deferred
liability for this plan was $20.3 million and $18.2 million, respectively. At
June 30, 1997 and 1996, the projected benefit obligation for this plan was $24.8
million and $26.0 million, respectively. The corresponding accumulated benefit
obligation was $17.1 million and $13.2 million, respectively, and is equal to
the amount of vested benefits.
 
                                      F-16

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  INTERNATIONAL PENSION PLANS
 
     The components of net periodic pension cost for all significant
international pension plans were as follows:
 

 
     The range of assumptions used to develop the components of net periodic
pension cost was as follows:
 

 
     The international pension plans' funded status and amounts recognized in
the Company's balance sheets are as follows:
 

 
  DEFERRED COMPENSATION
 
     The Company accrues for deferred compensation and interest thereon and for
the increase in the value of share units pursuant to agreements with certain key
executives. The amounts accrued under these plans were $50.8 million and $43.4
million as of June 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The expense for fiscal 1997,
1996 and 1995 was $7.8 million, $8.1 million and $4.8 million, respectively.
 
                                      F-17

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
NOTE 10 -- POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
 
     The Company maintains a contributory postretirement benefit plan which
provides certain medical and dental benefits to eligible employees. Retired
employees who are receiving monthly pension benefits are eligible for
participation in the plan. Contributions required and benefits received by
retirees and eligible family members are dependent on the age of the retiree. It
is the Company's practice to fund these benefits as incurred.
 
     The components of net postretirement benefit cost for the above plan were
as follows:
 

 
     The discount rate used to develop the components of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost was 7.75% in fiscal 1997 and 8% in fiscal 1996 and
1995.
 
     The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of July 1, 1996 and
1995 relative to U.S. employees was attributable to:
 

 
     For measurement purposes, a 10% and 11% annual rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered health care claims was assumed for fiscal 1997 and 1996,
respectively. These rates were assumed to decrease gradually to 5.75% by the

year 2001 for fiscal 1997 and to 6% by the year 2000 for fiscal 1996, and remain
at that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption has a
significant effect on the amounts reported. Increasing the assumed health care
cost trend rates by one percentage point in each year would increase the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of June 30, 1997 by $5.5
million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net
postretirement health care cost for the year then ended by $0.9 million. The
weighted average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 7.75% and 8% for fiscal 1997 and 1996,
respectively.
 
     Certain of the Company's international subsidiaries and affiliates have
postretirement plans, although most participants are covered by government
sponsored or administered programs. The cost of the Company-sponsored programs
is not significant.
 
NOTE 11 -- POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN TO RETIREES
 
     The Company provides certain postemployment benefits to eligible former or
inactive employees and their dependents during the period subsequent to
employment but prior to retirement. These benefits include certain disability
and health care coverage and severance benefits. The cost of providing these
benefits was not material to the Company's consolidated financial position or
results of operations.
 
NOTE 12 -- $6.50 CUMULATIVE REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK, AT REDEMPTION VALUE
 
     As of June 30, 1997, the Company's authorized capital stock included 23.6
million shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of which 3.6
million shares are designated as $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
all of which are issued and outstanding. The preferred stock was issued in
November 1995 in exchange for nonvoting common stock of the Company owned by The
Estee Lauder 1994 Trust.
 
                                      F-18

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     Holders of the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock are entitled to
receive cumulative cash dividends at a rate of $6.50 per annum per share payable
in quarterly installments. Such dividends have preference over all other
dividends of stock issued by the Company. Shares are subject to mandatory
redemption on June 30, 2005 at a redemption price of $100 per share. Following
such date and so long as such mandatory redemption obligations have not been
discharged in full, no dividends may be paid or declared upon the Common Stock,
or on any other capital stock ranking junior to or in parity with such $6.50
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and no shares of Common Stock or such
junior or parity stock may be redeemed or acquired for any consideration by the
Company. Under certain circumstances, the Company may redeem the stock, in whole
or in part, prior to the mandatory redemption date. Holders of such stock may
put such shares to the Company at a price of $100 per share after June 30, 2000
and upon the occurrence of certain circumstances.
 

     The Company has recorded the Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at its
redemption value of $360.0 million and has charged this amount, net of the par
value of the prior Class B nonvoting Common Stock exchanged, to stockholders'
equity in fiscal 1995.
 
NOTE 13 -- CAPITAL STOCK
 
     As of June 30, 1997, the Company's authorized common stock consists of 300
million shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, and 120
million shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share. Class B Common
Stock is convertible into Class A Common Stock, in whole or in part, at any time
and from time to time at the option of the holder, on the basis of one share of
Class A Common Stock for each share of Class B Common Stock converted. Holders
of the Company's Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share and
holders of the Company's Class B Common Stock are entitled to ten votes per
share.
 
     The Company's previously outstanding participating Class I preferred stock
dividend was the greater of $4.0 million or a predetermined percentage of the
net earnings of Clinique Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company. In
fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995 dividends of $33.8 million and $23.6 million were
declared in each year, respectively.
 
     In June 1995, the Company redeemed $1.1 million of preferred stock at par
value.
 
     Information about the Company's common stock outstanding is as follows:
 

 
NOTE 14 -- STOCK PROGRAMS
 
     In conjunction with its initial public offering, the Company established
the Fiscal 1996 Share Incentive Plan (the 'Plan') and, additionally, made
available stock options and share units that were, or will be, granted pursuant

to certain employment agreements. At June 30, 1997, the Company has two
stock-based compensation programs, which are described below. Total compensation
expense attributable to these programs was $3.0 million and $3.7 million in
fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively.
 
                                      F-19

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN
 
     The Company's Plan provides for the issuance of stock options, stock
appreciation rights and other stock awards to key employees and non-employee
directors of the Company to purchase Class A Common Stock of the Company at a
price not less than fair market value on the date of grant. The Company reserved
4,225,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock pursuant to this Plan. The exercise
period for all stock options generally may not exceed ten years from the date of
grant. Pursuant to the Plan, in fiscal 1997 stock option awards in respect of
777,000 shares were granted, and in fiscal 1996 stock option awards in respect
of 1,565,000 shares were granted contemporaneously with the Offering. These
awards generally become exercisable at various times beginning January 1, 1999
and expire through June 2007.
 
  EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS
 
     The Company has reserved 5,700,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock which
are available to be granted in accordance with employment agreements entered
into with certain key executives. Pursuant to such employment agreements, in
fiscal 1997 stock option awards in respect of 987,500 shares and 37,920 share
units were granted, and in fiscal 1996 stock option awards in respect of
1,575,000 shares and 57,692 share units were granted contemporaneously with the
Offering. These stock options may be exercised in installments at various times
through July 2006, while the share units will be paid out in shares of Class A
Common Stock at a time to be determined by the Company.
 
     A summary of the activity of the Company's stock option programs as of June
30, 1997 and 1996, and changes during the years then ended is presented below:
 

 
     The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25, 'Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,' and related Interpretations in accounting for such stock options and
share units granted under these programs. Under APB Opinion No. 25, no
compensation cost is recognized if the exercise price of the Company's employee
stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of the
grant. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized. SFAS No. 123,
'Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,' which is effective for transactions
entered into after December 15, 1995, requires the Company to provide pro forma
information regarding net earnings and net earnings per common share as if
compensation cost for the Company's stock option plan had been determined in
accordance with the fair value method prescribed by SFAS No. 123.
 
                                      F-20

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     Had compensation cost for these programs been determined based upon the
fair value at the grant dates consistent with SFAS No. 123, the Company's pro
forma net earnings and net earnings per common share would have been:
 

 
- ------------------
(a) Presented on a pro forma basis (see Note 1).
 
     The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for
grants in fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996: dividend yield of 1.0%; expected
volatility of 23%, average expected option life of seven years; and an average
risk free interest rate of 6.6% and 5.9%, respectively.

 
     Summarized information about the Company's stock options outstanding and
exercisable at June 30, 1997 is as follows:
 

 
- ------------------
(a) Shares in thousands.
 
(b) Weighted average contractual life remaining in years.
 
(c) Weighted average exercise price.
 
     Subsequent to June 30, 1997, the Company granted options under the terms of
the share incentive plan and executive employment agreements described above to
purchase an additional 40,000 shares and 987,500 shares, respectively, of the
Company's Class A Common Stock at an option price of $49.50 per share. In
addition, the Company granted 30,043 share units to a key executive pursuant to
the executive's employment agreement. These stock options and share units were
granted with the same conditions as those described above.
 
NOTE 15 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 
     Total rental expense included in the accompanying statements of earnings
was $77.3 million in fiscal 1997, $83.2 million in fiscal 1996 and $76.8 million
in fiscal 1995. At June 30, 1997, the future minimum rental commitments under
long-term operating leases are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-21

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     In connection with the acquisition of Bobbi Brown essentials described in
Note 3, the Company may be required to make additional contingent earn-out
payments in later periods.
 
     The Company is involved in various routine legal proceedings incident to
the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that the outcome of
all pending legal proceedings in the aggregate will not have a material adverse
effect on its results of operations or financial condition.
 
NOTE 16 -- UNREALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS, NET
 
     Under SFAS No. 115, 'Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities,' available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value.
Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on
available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a
separate component of stockholders' equity until realized. The Company's
noncurrent investments subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 115 are treated as
available-for-sale and, accordingly, the applicable investments have been
adjusted to market value with a corresponding adjustment to unrealized
investment gains, net, in stockholders' equity. Unrealized investment gains (net
of deferred taxes) included in stockholders' equity amounted to $2.9 million at
June 30, 1997 and 1996.
 
NOTE 17 -- SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company operates on a worldwide basis in one business segment, the
manufacturing and marketing of skin care, makeup and fragrance products.
 
     Information related to the Company's geographic segments for the three
years ended June 30, 1997, is as follows:
 

 
     In fiscal 1997, two groups of affiliated customers accounted for 12% and
10% of the Company's net sales. In fiscal 1996, two groups of affiliated
customers accounted for 13% and 10% of the Company's net sales. In fiscal 1995,
one group of affiliated customers accounted for 11% of the Company's net sales.
 
                                      F-22

                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 18 -- UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following summarizes the unaudited quarterly operating results of the
Company for the years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996:
 

 
- ------------------
(a) Presented on a pro forma basis (see Note 1).
 
                                      F-23



              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE
 
To The Estee Lauder Companies Inc.:
 
     We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. and subsidiaries
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have issued our report thereon
dated August 12, 1997. Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an
opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. This schedule is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
 
New York, New York                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
August 12, 1997
 
                                      S-1


                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                        THREE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1997
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------------
(A) Includes amounts written-off, net of recoveries.
 
                                      S-2


                        THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 



 
- ------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 
+ Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
   (b) Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of the
  period covered by this report.

