
10-K
the2002_10k.txt



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

                        FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended December 28, 2002

/ / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-27078

                               HENRY SCHEIN, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

               DELAWARE                             135 DURYEA ROAD
    (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF               MELVILLE, NEW YORK
    INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)     (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
              11-3136595                                 11747
 (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)                 (ZIP CODE)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (631) 843-5500

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                          COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.01
                                (TITLE OF CLASS)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES: /X/  NO: / /
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
YES: /X/  NO: / /
     The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales
price as quoted on the NASDAQ National Market on June 28, 2002 was approximately
$1,947,918,570.
     As of June 28, 2002 there were 43,773,451 shares of registrant's Common
Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
(December 28, 2002) are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.



                                                                -----------------





                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Henry Schein is the largest distributor of healthcare products and services
to office-based healthcare practitioners in the combined North American and
European markets. We serve more than 400,000 customers worldwide, including
dental practices and laboratories, physician practices, and veterinary clinics,
as well as government and other institutions. We believe that we have a strong
brand identity due to our 70 years of experience in distributing healthcare
products. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 6,900
people, and have operations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom,
the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, Austria, Spain, Ireland, Portugal,
Australia and New Zealand. We conduct our business through two segments:
healthcare distribution and technology. These segments offer different products
and services to the same customer base. The healthcare distribution segment
consists of our dental, medical (including veterinary), and international
groups. The international group is comprised of our healthcare distribution
business units located primarily in Europe and offers products and services to
dental and medical (including veterinary) customers in their respective
geographic regions. The technology segment consists primarily of our practice
management software business and certain other value-added products and services
that are distributed primarily to healthcare professionals in the United States
and Canada.

HEALTHCARE DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT

          -    Our dental group serves over 75% of the estimated 120,000
               office-based dental practices in the United States and
               approximately 33% of the estimated 15,000 Canadian dental
               practices. Based upon an estimated $4.2 billion combined U.S. and
               Canadian dental market, our share of this market was
               approximately 29% in 2002.

          -    Our medical group serves over 40% of the estimated 230,000
               office-based physician practices in the United States, as well as
               surgical centers and other alternate care settings. We also serve
               over 70% of the estimated 24,000 veterinarian clinics in the
               United States. Based upon an estimated $6.7 billion combined
               market, our share of this market was approximately 14% in 2002.

          -    Our international group serves approximately 170,000 practices in
               14 countries outside of North America and is a leading
               Pan-European healthcare supplier serving office-based dental,
               medical, and veterinary practices. Based upon an estimated $3.2
               billion Western European dental market and the combined estimated
               $2.2 billion Western European medical and veterinary markets, our
               share of these markets in 2002 was approximately 9% and 4%,
               respectively.


TECHNOLOGY SEGMENT

          -    Our technology group provides software, technology, and other
               value-added services to healthcare providers, primarily in North
               America. Our value-added practice solutions include practice
               management software systems for dental practices and for
               veterinary clinics. More than 48,000 of our software systems have
               been installed through 2002. The technology group offerings also
               include financial services and continuing education services.

     For further information on our operating segments and operations by
geographic area, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" in ITEM 7 and Note 13 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements.



     Through our comprehensive catalogs and other direct sales and marketing
programs, we offer our customers a broad product selection of branded and
private brand products at competitive prices. We support our direct marketing
effort with almost 800 telesales representatives who facilitate order processing
and generate sales through direct and frequent contact with customers, and more
than 1,350 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists. In
addition, we continue to expand our management information systems using
database segmentation techniques to more effectively market our products and
services.

     We have established strategically located distribution centers to enable us
to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This
infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive
pricing, and a shared commitment of over 6,900 "Team Schein Members" to deliver
what we believe is a strong commitment to customer service, enable us to be a
single source of supply for our customers' needs, as well as to provide
convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

     The office-based healthcare practitioner industry, in the geographic
markets in which we operate, is highly fragmented and diverse. Encompassing the
dental, medical, and veterinary markets, this industry accounted for revenues of
approximately $16.3 billion in 2002. The industry ranges from sole practitioners
working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service
organizations comprised of a few to a large number of practitioners who have
combined or otherwise associated their practices. Due in part to the inability
of office-based practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies
in their offices, the distribution of healthcare supplies and small equipment to
office-based healthcare practitioners has traditionally been characterized by
frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable, and
substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decision within an
office-based healthcare practice is typically made by the practitioner or by an
administrative assistant, and supplies and small equipment are generally
purchased from more than one distributor with one generally serving as the
primary supplier.

     We believe that consolidation within the supply industry serving
office-based healthcare practitioners will result in a number of distributors,
particularly companies with limited financial and marketing resources, seeking
to combine with larger companies that can provide opportunities for growth. This
consolidation may also result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that
can enhance their current product offerings and expand the services they can
offer or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base.

     In recent years, the healthcare industry has increasingly focused on cost
containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad
array of products and services at low prices. This trend has also accelerated
the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective
buying groups which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at low
prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management
information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the
potential to favorably impact demand for practice management systems and
software that can enhance the efficiency and facilitate the management of the
practice.

SALES AND MARKETING STRATEGIES

CUSTOMERS

     Through our healthcare distribution and technology businesses, we serve
over 400,000 customers worldwide in the dental and medical markets. No single
customer accounted for more than 1.3% of our net sales in 2002. Our dental
customers include office-based dental practices, dental laboratories,
universities, institutions, government agencies and large group accounts;
medical customers include



office-based physician practices, podiatrists, surgery centers, institutions,
hospitals, government agencies, and office-based veterinarians serving primarily
small companion animals.

     We believe that our healthcare distribution customers generally order from
two or more suppliers for their healthcare product needs, and often use one
supplier as their primary resource. We also believe that our customers generally
place larger orders and order more frequently from their primary suppliers. We
estimate that in 2002 we served as primary supplier to less than 15% of our
total customer base and believe we have an opportunity to increase sales by
increasing our level of business with those customers for which we serve as a
secondary supplier.

     Over the past several years, we have expanded our customer base to include
larger purchasing organizations, including dental laboratories, institutions,
government agencies, hospitals and surgery centers. More recently, as cost
containment pressures have resulted in increased demand for low-cost products
and value-added services, we have targeted specific groups of practices under
common ownership, institutions, and professional groups. For example, we have an
exclusive direct marketing agreement with an American Medical Association
("AMA") sponsored service pursuant to which member practitioners have access to
the service's lower prices for products. In 2002, the AMA sponsored service
accounted for net sales of approximately $31.5 million. These organizations,
government institutions and agencies, hospitals and other large or collective
purchasers, require low-cost pricing and detailed product and usage information
and reporting. We believe that we are well situated to meet the needs of these
customers, given our broad offerings of low-cost products and our management
information systems capabilities.

SALES AND MARKETING

     Our 70 years of healthcare distribution experience has helped to build the
Henry Schein(R) brand among our customers. Our sales and marketing efforts are
designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal
visits by field sales representatives and frequent direct marketing contact,
emphasizing our broad product lines, competitive prices and ease of order
placement. The key elements of our program are:

     FIELD SALES CONSULTANTS

          We have over 1,350 field sales consultants, including equipment sales
     specialists, covering major North American and international markets. These
     field sales consultants concentrate on attracting new customers and
     increasing sales to existing customers. This strategy is designed to
     complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and to enable us to
     better market, service, and support the sale of more sophisticated products
     and equipment. Once a field sales consultant has established a relationship
     with a customer, the consultant encourages the customer to use our
     automated ordering process or telesales representatives for the customer's
     day-to-day needs. This reduces the ordering requirements for the customer
     and increases the effectiveness of the field sales consultant. We have
     career development initiatives for our field sales consultants that are
     designed to supplement the consultants' skill set to provide value-added
     practice management services to our customers.

     DIRECT MARKETING

          During 2002, we distributed over 22 million pieces of direct marketing
     material, including catalogs, flyers, order stuffers and other promotional
     materials to over 650,000 office-based healthcare practitioners. Our
     principal printed U.S. dental consumable catalog, which is issued annually,
     contains over 500 pages and includes approximately 26,000 SKUs. The number
     of catalogs and other direct marketing materials received by each customer
     depends upon their practice specialty, as well as their purchasing history.
     Our catalogs include detailed descriptions and specifications of both
     branded and private brand products and are utilized by healthcare
     practitioners as a reference source. By identifying our customers'
     purchasing patterns, area of specialty, past



     product selections and other criteria, we are able to identify customers
     who may respond better to specific promotions or products. To facilitate
     our direct marketing activities, we maintain an in-house advertising
     department that we believe streamlines the production process, provides
     greater flexibility and creativity in catalog production, and results in
     cost savings.

     TELESALES

          We support our direct marketing effort with almost 800 inbound and
     outbound telesales representatives who facilitate order processing and
     generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers.
     Inbound telesales representatives are responsible for assisting customers
     in purchasing decisions, as well as answering product pricing and
     availability questions. In addition to assisting customers, inbound
     telesales representatives also market complementary or promotional
     products. Our telesales representatives utilize on-line technology to enter
     customer orders and to access information about products, product
     availability, pricing, promotions, and customer preferences and history.

          We utilize outbound telesales activities to market our services to
     customer accounts that we identify as either being high volume or high
     frequency order accounts. Outbound telesales representatives strive to
     manage long-term relationships with these customers through frequent and/or
     regularly scheduled phone contact and personalized service.

          Our telesales representatives generally participate in training
     courses designed to familiarize them with our products, services and
     systems. In addition, telesales representatives attend periodic training
     sessions and special sales programs and receive incentives, including
     monthly commissions.

CUSTOMER SERVICE

     A principal element of our customer service approach is a customer order
entry process that is convenient, easy and flexible. Customers typically place
orders through one of our experienced telesales representatives. Customers may
place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week ("24/7") by mail, fax, telephone,
e-mail, and using our computerized order entry systems known as ArubA(R)
Windows, ArubA(R) eZ, or ArubA(R) TouchTone (our 24/7 automated phone service)
and the Internet at www.henryschein.com or www.sullivanschein.com. The
information contained on our websites is not a part of this Form 10-K.

     We focus on providing rapid and accurate order fulfillment and high fill
rates. We estimate that approximately 99% of all items ordered in the United
States and Canada are shipped without back ordering, and that approximately 99%
of all orders in the United States and Canada received before 5:00 p.m. are
shipped on the same day the order is received. In addition, because we seek to
service a customer's entire order from the distribution center nearest the
customer's facility, approximately 99% of all orders are received within two
days of placing the order. We frequently monitor our customer service through
customer surveys, focus groups and daily statistical reports. We maintain a
liberal return policy to help bolster customer satisfaction.



PRODUCTS

     The following table sets forth the principal categories of products offered
by our healthcare distribution and technology segments and certain top selling
types of products in each category with the percentage of consolidated net sales
by year:



- ----------

     (1) Reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

     (2) Includes: x-ray products; infection control; handpieces; preventatives;
         impression materials; composites; and anesthetics

     (3) Includes: dental chairs; delivery units and lights; x-rays; equipment
         repair; and hi-tech equipment

     (4) Includes: teeth; composites; gypsum; acrylics; articulators; and
         abrasives

     (5) Includes: branded and generic pharmaceuticals; surgical products;
         diagnostic tests; infection control; x-ray products; and vitamins

     (6) Includes: branded and generic pharmaceuticals; surgical products; and
         dental products

     (7) Includes: software and related products and other value-added products,
         including financial products and continuing education

CONSUMABLE SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT

     We offer over 90,000 SKUs to our customers in North America, of which
approximately 60,000 are offered to our dental customers, approximately 30,000
are offered to our medical customers and approximately 40,000 are offered to our
veterinary customers. We offer approximately 70,000 SKUs to our customers in
Europe. Approximately 7.5% of our net sales in 2002 were from sales of products
offered under the Henry Schein private brand (i.e., products manufactured by
various third parties for distribution by us under the Henry Schein(R) brand).
We believe that the Henry Schein private brand line of over 7,400 SKUs offered
in the United States and Canada is one of the most extensive in the industry. We
update our product offerings regularly to meet our customers' changing needs.

     We offer a repair service, ProRepair(R), which provides rapid turnaround
for handpieces and certain small equipment. We also provide in-office
installation and repair services for large equipment in many North American and
international markets. We had 110 equipment sales and service centers worldwide
at the end of fiscal 2002.



TECHNOLOGY AND OTHER VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     We sell practice management software systems to our dental and veterinary
customers. Through fiscal 2002, more than 42,000 of our Dentrix and Easy
Dental(R) software systems and over 6,000 of our AVImark(R) veterinary software
systems have been installed. Our practice management software products provide
practitioners with patient treatment history, billing, accounts receivable
analysis and management, an appointment calendar, electronic claims processing
and word processing programs. We provide technical support and conversion
services from other software. In addition, the Dentrix and Easy Dental(R)
software systems allow customers to connect with our order entry management
systems. The Dentrix system is one of the most comprehensive clinically based
dental practice management software packages in the United States. We believe
our software product offerings enhance our ability to provide our
customers with a wide array of system solutions to help manage their practices.
We have a new initiative called the Digital Dental Office or "DDO". The DDO uses
a suite of technologically advanced products to deliver integrated imaging,
clinical, and financial applications to the dentist's office.

     We offer our customers assistance in operating their practices by providing
access to a number of financial services and products at rates that we believe
are generally lower than what they would be able to secure independently. Our
equipment leasing programs, which are administered by third-party providers,
allow us to fulfill a wide variety of practitioner financing needs. We also
provide financing and consulting services for all phases of the healthcare
practice including start-up, expansion or acquisition, and debt consolidation.
In 2002, we also added our Henry Schein(R) brand credit card to our product
offerings. Our patient financing program provides our dental and veterinary
customers a method of reducing receivables and improving cash flow by providing
patients access to financing. We do not assume any financial recourse obligation
of our customers or their patients in these programs.

     Through an arrangement with one of the nation's largest bank credit card
processors, we offer electronic bankcard processing. We also offer electronic
insurance claims submission services for faster processing of patient
reimbursements, all through a third-party provider for a transaction fee. We
also offer practice management consulting services in selected markets in the
United States. None of these services, either individually or in the aggregate,
represents a material source of revenue to us.

INFRASTRUCTURE STRATEGY

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     Our information systems generally allow for centralized management of key
functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll,
purchasing, sales and order fulfillment. A key attribute of our management
information systems is the daily operating control reports that allow managers
throughout our organization to share information and monitor daily progress
relating to sales activity, gross profit, credit and returns, inventory levels,
stock balancing, unshipped orders, order fulfillment and other operational
statistics. We continually seek to enhance and upgrade our order processing
information system. In the United States, we have recently introduced FieldCom,
a new dental equipment service and repair technology tool that provides an
immediate and paperless communication link between our service and repair
technicians and us. Additionally, in the United States, we have installed an
integrated information system for our large dental equipment sales and service
functions. Such systems centralize the tracking of customers' equipment orders
as well as spare parts inventories and repair services.

DISTRIBUTION

     We distribute our products in the United States primarily from our
strategically located distribution centers in Eastern, Central, South Eastern,
South Western and Western United States. Customers in



Canada are serviced from distribution centers located in Eastern and Western
Canada. We maintain appropriate inventory levels in order to satisfy customer
demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment of their product
needs. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our
sophisticated purchasing and stock status management information systems. Once a
customer's order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the
distribution center nearest the customer's location and a packing slip for the
entire order is printed for order fulfillment. Our automated freight manifesting
and laser bar code scanning facilitates the speed of the order fulfillment. We
currently ship substantially all of our orders in the United States by United
Parcel Service. In certain areas of the United States, we deliver our orders via
contract carriers. Our international distribution centers include locations in
the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Australia, and New
Zealand.

PURCHASING

     We believe that effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and
enhancing our position as a low-cost provider of healthcare products. We
frequently evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers' offerings and
prices in order to obtain products at the best possible cost. We believe that
our ability to make high volume purchases has enabled us to obtain favorable
pricing and terms from our suppliers. We obtain the products for our North
American distribution centers from about 2,300 suppliers of name brand products;
in addition, we have established relationships with numerous local vendors to
obtain products for our international distribution centers. In 2002, our top 10
healthcare distribution vendors and our single largest vendor accounted for
approximately 31.9% and 6.6%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases.

GROWTH STRATEGIES

     We pursue growth in the following ways: first, we seek to increase sales to
our existing customer base and enhance our position as a prime vendor. We
estimate that we are the primary vendor to less than 15% of our customers. For
example, in the U.S. dental market, total consumable sales per practitioner are
estimated to be approximately $25,000, of which our average U.S. dental
customer's sales are approximately $8,000 (or 32%) of those sales. In the U.S.
medical market total sales per practitioner are estimated to be $12,000 of which
our average U.S. medical customer's sales are approximately $4,000 (or 33%) of
those sales. In the Western European dental market total sales per practitioner
are estimated to be approximately $20,000, of which our average Western European
dental customer's sales are approximately $3,000 (or 15%) of those sales.

     To increase market share, we seek to expand our dental equipment sales and
services. This includes selling digital x-ray and intra-oral imaging to existing
customers, as well as to providing innovative value-added services to help our
customers run more efficient and profitable practices. These value-added
services include practice management software systems, electronic claims and
credit card processing (we processed approximately 23 million claims during
2002), practice and patient financing, equipment leasing, and continuing
education.

     Our second growth strategy is to increase the total number of customers we
serve. We estimate that 55-60% of U.S. medical practices and 45% of Western
European dental practices are not customers of the Company. We believe that
there is substantial opportunity in the Western European medical market as well.
This strategy includes increasing the number and productivity of field sales
consultants, as well as utilizing our customer database to focus our marketing
efforts.

     Our third growth strategy is to increase cross-selling efforts of key
product lines. In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling
opportunities between our dental practice management software users and our over
90,000 dental distribution customers. In the medical business, we have
opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables, and other pharmaceuticals
sales to medical distribution customers, as well as cross-selling core products
with these key products. Like dental, the veterinary



business provides opportunities for cross-selling between our veterinary
practice management software users and our estimated 17,000 veterinary
distribution clients.

     Finally, we continue to pursue strategic acquisitions. We believe that
there has been consolidation among healthcare product distributors serving
office-based healthcare practitioners and that this trend will continue to
create opportunities for us to expand through acquisitions. In recent years, we
have acquired a number of companies engaged in businesses that are complementary
to us. Our acquisition strategy includes acquiring targets that will provide
additional sales that will be channeled through our existing infrastructure,
acquiring access to additional product lines, acquiring regional distributors
with networks of field sales consultants and expanding internationally. We have
completed 20 acquisitions in the past five years.

     As industry consolidation continues, we believe that we are positioned to
capitalize on this trend as we believe we have the ability to support increased
sales through our existing infrastructure. In the U.S. dental market, we
estimate that there are currently over 300 smaller distributors holding
approximately 40% of the market. In the U.S. medical market, we estimate that
over 500 smaller distributors hold approximately 60% of the market, and in the
European dental market, we estimate that over 200 smaller competitors hold
approximately 80% market share.

COMPETITION

     The distribution and manufacture of healthcare supplies and equipment is
highly competitive. Many of the healthcare distribution products we sell are
available to our customers from a number of suppliers. In addition, our
competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market
particular products. Manufacturers could also seek to sell directly to
end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce the role of distributors, like us.

     In the United States, we compete with other distributors, as well as
several major manufacturers of dental, medical and veterinary products,
primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, customer service and
value-added products and services. In the sale of our dental products, our
principal national competitor is Patterson Dental Company. In addition, we
compete against a number of other distributors that operate on a national,
regional and local level. Our principal competitors in the sale of medical
products are PSS World Medical, Inc., the General Medical division of McKesson
Corp., and the Allegiance division of Cardinal Health, Inc., which are national
distributors. In the veterinary market, our two principal national competitors
include The Butler Company and Burns Veterinary Supply, Inc. We also compete
against a number of regional and local medical and veterinary distributors, as
well as a number of manufacturers that sell directly to physicians and
veterinarians. With regard to our practice management software, we compete
against numerous other firms, including firms such as PracticeWorks, Inc., which
primarily targets dental practices, and IDEXX Laboratories, Inc., which serves
veterinary practices. We believe that we compete in Canada substantially on the
same basis as in the United States.

     We also face significant competition internationally, where we compete on
the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors,
including Demedis Dental Deport GmbH, the GACD Group, the Pluradent AG & Co.,
and Bilricay, as well as a large number of dental product distributors and
manufacturers in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France,
Austria, Ireland, Portugal and Spain.

     Significant price reductions by our competitors could result in a similar
reduction in our prices as a consequence of our policy of matching our
competitors' lowest advertised prices. Any of these competitive pressures may
materially adversely affect operating results.



MARKETS SERVED

     Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S.
population is increasingly using healthcare services. Between 1995 and 2000, the
45-to-65 age group grew by 50%, and this group is expected to double by 2020. In
the dental industry, there is predicted to be an attendant rise in oral
healthcare expenditures as this segment of the population increases. Cosmetic
dentistry is another growing aspect of dental practices as new technologies
allow dentists to offer cosmetic solutions patients seek. At the same time,
there is an increase in dental insurance coverage. Just over 56% of the U.S.
population now has some form of dental coverage, up from 44% in 1994.

     We support dental professionals through the 60,000 SKUs we offer, as well
as through important value-added services, including practice management
software, electronic claims processing, financial services, and continuing
education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner's efficiency and
profitability.

     We believe our medical group is the fastest growing distributor among the
major competitors in the physician and alternate care markets. There continues
to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians' offices,
a trend that may provide additional opportunity for us. There also is the
continuing use of vaccines, injectables, and other pharmaceuticals in alternate
care settings. We have established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to
the office-based medical practitioner.

     Our international group is a leading Pan-European healthcare supplier
servicing office-based dental and medical practices. We are in the process of
attempting to replicate our U.S. infrastructure in Europe. Additionally, we are
expanding our dental full-service model throughout Europe, and expanding our
medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist. Through "Schein
Direct", we can provide door to door air package delivery to practitioners in
125 countries around the world.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS

     Our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, Federal
and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and
distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the Federal laws
applicable to us are the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Prescription
Drug Marketing Act of 1987, and the Controlled Substances Act.

     The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act generally regulates the
introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling,
marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and
medical devices shipped in interstate commerce. The Prescription Drug Marketing
Act of 1987, which amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, establishes
certain requirements applicable to the wholesale distribution of prescription
drugs, including the requirement that wholesale drug distributors be registered
with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and be licensed by each state in
which they conduct business in accordance with federally established guidelines
on storage, handling and record maintenance. Under the Controlled Substances
Act, Henry Schein as a distributor of controlled substances, is required to
obtain annually a registration from the Attorney General in accordance with
specified rules and regulations and is subject to inspection by the Drug
Enforcement Administration acting on behalf of the Attorney General. We are
required to maintain licenses and permits for the distribution of pharmaceutical
products and medical devices under the laws of the states in which we operate.
In addition, our dentist and physician customers are subject to significant
governmental regulation. There can be no assurance that regulations that impact
our business or customers' practices will not have a material adverse impact on
our business.

     We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all of the foregoing
laws and the regulations promulgated thereunder and possess all material permits
and licenses required for the conduct of our business.



PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

     We hold trademarks relating to the "Henry Schein" name and logo, as well as
certain other trademarks. Pursuant to agreements executed in connection with a
reorganization of the Company, both Henry Schein, Inc., and Schein
Pharmaceutical, Inc. (which was acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. during
2000), a company engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source
pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the "Schein" name in connection
with their respective businesses, but Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. is not
entitled to use the name "Henry Schein". We intend to protect our trademarks to
the fullest extent practicable.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 28, 2002, we had over 6,900 full-time employees, including
approximately 800 telesales representatives, 1,350 field sales consultants,
including equipment sales specialists, 1,325 warehouse employees, 250 computer
programmers and technicians, 700 management employees and 2,475 office, clerical
and administrative employees. Of our 6,900 employees, approximately 20 were
subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with
our employees are good.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     We make available free of charge through our Internet website,
www.henryschein.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments on these reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with,
or furnish it to the SEC.

     Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville,
New York 11747, and our telephone number is 631-843-5500. Unless the context
specifically requires otherwise, the terms, the "Company", "Henry Schein", "we",
"us" and "our" mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, and a 50%-owned company and predecessor.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive
officers:



     STANLEY M. BERGMAN has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
since 1989 and a director of the Company since 1982. Mr. Bergman held the
position of Executive Vice President of the Company and Schein Pharmaceutical,
Inc. from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration of the
Company from 1980 to 1985. Mr. Bergman is a certified public accountant.

     GERALD A. BENJAMIN has been Executive Vice President and Chief
Administrative Officer since February 2000. Prior to holding his current
position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer
Satisfaction since 1993, and has been a director of the Company since September
1994. Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution Operations of the Company
from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management of the Company from 1988
to 1990.

     JAMES P. BRESLAWSKI has been Executive Vice President of the Company and
President of U.S. Dental since 1990, with primary responsibility for the U.S.
Dental Group, and a director of the Company since 1990. Between 1980 and 1990,
Mr. Breslawski held various positions with the Company, including Chief
Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration and Controller.
Mr. Breslawski is a certified public accountant.

     LEONARD A. DAVID has been Vice President of Human Resources and Special
Counsel since January 1995. Mr. David held the office of Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary from 1990 to 1995 and practiced corporate and business law
for eight years prior to joining the Company. Mr. David has been a director of
the Company since September 1994.

     LARRY M. GIBSON has been Executive Vice President and Chief Technology
Officer since October 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Gibson
joined the Company as President of the Practice Management Technologies Group in
February 1997, concurrent with the acquisition of Dentrix Dental Systems, Inc.
Before joining the Company, Mr. Gibson was founder, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Dentrix, started in 1980. Prior to his employment with Dentrix, Mr.
Gibson was employed by Weidner Communication Systems.



     MICHAEL RACIOPPI has been President of the Medical Group since February
2000 and Interim President since September 1999. Prior to holding his current
position, Mr. Racioppi was Vice President of the Company since 1994, with
primary responsibility for the Medical Division, the marketing and merchandising
groups. Mr. Racioppi served as Vice President and as Senior Director, Corporate
Merchandising from 1992 to 1994. Before joining the Company in 1992, Mr.
Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors Inc. as the Vice President of
Purchasing and Marketing.

     MARK E. MLOTEK has been Senior Vice President of Corporate Business
Development Group since February 2000. Prior to holding his current position,
Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999,
and became a director of the Company in September 1995. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel
to the Company, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate
reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.

     STEVEN PALADINO has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since February 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino
was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 1993
and has been a director of the Company since 1992. From 1990 to 1992, Mr.
Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as
Corporate Controller of the Company. Before joining the Company, Mr. Paladino
was employed as a public accountant for seven years and most recently was with
the international accounting firm of BDO Seidman, LLP. Mr. Paladino is a
certified public accountant.

     MICHAEL ZACK has been responsible for the International Group of the
Company since 1989. Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of
Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of International Operations from 1984 to 1989
and by Gruenenthal GmbH as Manager of International Subsidiaries from 1975 to
1984.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     We own or lease the following properties:



     (1) We are subletting 66,500 square feet of this facility through July
         2007.

     (2) We lease an additional 90,400 square feet on a short-term basis in the
         Indianapolis, IN vicinity.

     (3) In January 2003, we took occupancy of an additional 68,000 square feet
         of leased distribution center space in the Sparks, NV vicinity. The
         lease terminates in January 2007.

     All of the properties listed in the table above are primarily used in our
healthcare distribution segment.

     We also lease distribution, office, showroom and sales space in other
locations including the United States, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands,
Belgium, Spain, Austria, Ireland, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Australia and
New Zealand. One 50%-owned company also leases space in the United States.

     We believe that our properties are generally in good condition, are well
maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on our business. We
have additional operating capacity at the listed facilities.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Our business involves a risk of product liability claims and other claims
in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a
defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical and other
healthcare products. As of December 28, 2002, we were named a defendant in
approximately 57 product liability cases. Of these claims, 47 involve claims
made by healthcare workers who claim allergic reaction relating to exposure to
latex gloves. In each of these cases, we acted as a distributor of both brand
name and "Henry Schein" private brand latex gloves, which were manufactured by
third parties. To date, discovery in these cases has generally been limited to
product identification issues. The manufacturers in these cases have withheld
indemnification of the Company pending product identification; however, we have
impleaded or filed cross claims against those manufacturers, subject to
jurisdiction, in each case in which we are a defendant.

     On January 27, 1998, in District Court in Travis County, Texas, we and one
of our subsidiaries were named as defendants in a matter entitled "Shelly E.
Stromboe and Jeanne Taylor, on Behalf of



Themselves and all others Similarly Situated vs. Henry Schein, Inc., Easy Dental
Systems, Inc. and Dentisoft, Inc.", Case No. 98-00886. The Petition alleges,
among other things, negligence, breach of contract, fraud, and violations of
certain Texas commercial statutes involving the sale of certain practice
management software products sold prior to 1998 under the Easy Dental(R) name.
In October 1999, the trial court, on motion, certified both a Windows(R)
sub-class and a DOS sub-class to proceed as a class action pursuant to Tex. R.
Civ. P. 42. It is estimated that 5,000 Windows(R) customers and 10,000 DOS
customers were covered by the class action that was certified by the trial
court. In November of 1999, we filed an interlocutory appeal of the trial
court's determination to the Texas Court of Appeals on the issue of whether this
case was properly certified as a class action. On September 14, 2000, the Court
of Appeals affirmed the trial court's certification order. On January 5, 2001,
we filed a Petition for Review in the Texas Supreme Court asking the Court to
find that it had "conflicts jurisdiction" to permit review of the trial court's
certification order. The Texas Supreme Court heard oral argument on February 6,
2002. On October 31, 2002, the Texas Supreme Court issued an opinion in the case
holding that it had conflicts jurisdiction to review the decision of the Court
of Appeals and finding that the trial court's certification of the case as a
class action was improper. The Supreme Court further held that the judgment of
the court of appeals which affirmed the class certification order must be
reversed in its entirety. Upon reversal of the class certification order, the
Supreme Court remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings
consistent with its opinion. On January 31, 2003, counsel for the class filed a
Motion for Rehearing with the Texas Supreme Court seeking a reversal for the
Supreme Court's earlier opinion reversing the class certification order. The
Motion for Rehearing has not yet been ruled upon and remains pending before the
Texas Supreme Court. Because the Texas Supreme Court has not yet ruled upon the
Motion for Rehearing and because this matter has not yet come before the trial
court for consideration consistent with the Texas Supreme Court's opinion
reversing the trial court's certification order, it is not possible to determine
what the trial court will do if the plaintiffs file another motion for class
certification. Further, because of the decertification of the class by the Texas
Supreme Court, the pending Motion for Rehearing before the Texas Supreme Court
and other factors, it is not possible to determine whether the trial court will
certify a different class upon motion, if any, or the possible range of damages
or other relief sought by the plaintiffs in the trial court.

     In February 2002, we were served with a summons and complaint in an action
commenced in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Morris County,
entitled "West Morris Pediatrics, P.A. vs. Henry Schein, Inc., doing business as
Caligor", Case No. MRSL-421-02. The complaint by West Morris Pediatrics purports
to be on behalf of a nationwide class, but there has been no court determination
that the case may proceed as a class action. Plaintiff seeks to represent a
class of all physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers throughout New
Jersey and across the United States. This complaint, as amended in August 2002,
alleges, among other things, breach of oral contract, breach of implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, violation of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act,
unjust enrichment, conversion, and promissory estoppel relating to sales of a
vaccine product in the year 2001. We filed an answer in October 2002. Because
damages have not been specified by the plaintiffs, it is not possible to
determine the range of damages or other relief sought by the plaintiffs. We
intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this claim, as well as all other
claims, suits and complaints.

     We have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance,
covering risks and in amounts we consider adequate. In many cases in which we
have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, we are
provided indemnification by the manufacturer. There can be no assurance that the
coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or
at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide adequate
protection for the Company. In the opinion of the Company, all pending matters
are covered by insurance or will not otherwise seriously harm the Company's
financial condition.



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002.




                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
reported sales prices of the Common Stock of the Company as reported on the
NASDAQ National Market System for each quarterly period in fiscal 2001 and 2002
and for the first quarter of fiscal 2003 through March 18, 2003.



     The Company's Common Stock is quoted through the NASDAQ National Market
tier of the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol "HSIC". On March 18, 2003,
there were approximately 662 holders of record of the Common Stock. On March 18,
2003, the last reported sales price was $43.41.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common
Stock. We intend to retain earnings to finance the expansion of our business and
for general corporate purposes, including our stock repurchase program. Any
payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and
will depend upon the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level
of indebtedness, contractual restrictions with respect to payment of dividends
and other factors. Our revolving credit agreement, as well as the agreements
governing our Senior Notes, limit the distribution of dividends without the
prior written consent of the lenders.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following selected financial data, with respect to our financial
position and results of operations for each of the five years in the period
ended December 28, 2002, set forth below, has been derived from our consolidated
financial statements. The selected financial data presented below should be read
in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in ITEM 8
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in ITEM 7. The Selected Operating Data and Net Sales By Market Data
presented below have not been audited.







(1)  In 2002, we revised our original estimates of our anticipated merger and
     integration expenses. This change in estimates is attributable to facts and
     circumstances that arose subsequent to the original charges. As a result,
     we reversed certain of our previously recorded expenses. In 1998, the
     merger and integration costs consisted primarily of investment banking,
     legal, accounting and advisory fees, compensation, write-off of duplicate
     management information systems, and other assets and the impairment of
     goodwill arising from acquired businesses integrated into our medical and
     dental businesses, as well as certain other integration costs incurred
     primarily in connection with the 1998 acquisition of H. Meer Dental Supply
     Co., Inc. and the 1997 acquisitions of Sullivan Dental Products, Inc. and
     Micro Bio-Medics, Inc., which were accounted for under the pooling of
     interests method of accounting. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis
     of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Acquisition Strategy" in
     ITEM 7 and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in ITEM 8.

(2)  In 2002, we revised our original estimates of our anticipated restructuring
     expenses. This change in estimates is attributable to facts and
     circumstances that arose subsequent to the original charges. As a result,
     we recorded additional expenses. These restructuring costs consist
     primarily of employee severance costs, including severance pay and benefits
     for 2002 and 2000 of approximately $0.1 million and $7.2 million,
     respectively, facility closing costs, primarily lease termination and asset
     write-off costs of approximately $0.3 million and $4.4 million,
     respectively, and professional and consulting fees directly related to the
     restructuring plan of approximately $0.0 million and $2.8 million,
     respectively. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
     Condition and Results of Operations - Plan of Restructuring" in ITEM 7 and
     the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in ITEM 8.

(3)  Reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

(4)  Dental consists of our dental business in the United States and Canada.

(5)  Medical consists of our medical and veterinary businesses in the United
     States.

(6)  International consists of our business (primarily dental) outside the
     United States and Canada, primarily in Europe.

(7)  Technology consists of our practice management software business and
     certain other value-added products and services, which are distributed
     primarily to healthcare professionals in the United States and Canada.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this
report (including without limitation, statements indicating that we "expect,"
"estimate," "anticipate," or "believe" and all other statements concerning
future financial results, product or service offerings or other events that have
not yet occurred) are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Forward-looking statements involve
known and unknown factors, risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual
results in future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but
are not limited to, the factors described under "Risk Factors" below.


     The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial
condition and consolidated results of operations should be read in conjunction
with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in
ITEM 8 herein.

OVERVIEW

     We are the largest distributor of healthcare products and services to
office-based healthcare practitioners in the combined North American and
European markets with operations in the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, Austria, Spain, Ireland,
Portugal, Australia and New Zealand. We sell products and services to over
400,000 customers, primarily dental practices and dental laboratories, as well
as physician practices, veterinary clinics and institutions. Through our
comprehensive catalogs and other direct sales and marketing programs, we offer
customers a broad product selection of both branded and private brand products.

     We conduct our business through two segments: healthcare distribution and
technology. These operations offer different products and services to the same
customer base. The healthcare distribution segment consists of our dental,
medical (including veterinary), and international groups. The international
group is comprised of our healthcare distribution business units located
primarily in Europe, and offers products and services to dental and medical
(including veterinary) customers located in their respective geographic regions.
The technology segment consists primarily of our practice management software
business and certain other value-added products and services which are
distributed primarily to healthcare professionals in the United States and
Canada.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

     Securities Exchange Commission Financial Reporting Release No. 60 requires
all companies to include a discussion of critical accounting policies or methods
used in the preparation of financial statements.

     We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect the
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial
statements:

MANAGEMENT'S ESTIMATES

     The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates, including those related
to sales allowance provisions, as described below, volume purchase rebates,
income taxes, inventory and bad debts reserves, and contingencies. We base our
estimates on historical data, when available,


experience, industry and market trends, and on various other assumptions that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Sales are recorded when products are shipped or services are rendered to
customers, as we generally have no significant post delivery obligations, the
product price is fixed and determinable, collection of the resulting receivable
is probable and product returns are reasonably estimable. Revenues derived from
post contract customer support for practice management software are deferred and
recognized ratably over the period in which the support is to be provided,
generally one year. Revenues from freight charged to customers are recognized
when products are shipped. Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers,
customer returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the
related sales are recorded based upon historical data.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND CREDIT POLICIES

     The carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by a valuation
allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be
collected. In addition to reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, we consider
many factors in estimating our general allowance, including historical data,
experience, customer types, credit worthiness, and economic trends. From time to
time, we may adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of those or
other factors expected to affect collectability.

     Allowances for accounts receivable, comprised primarily of the allowance
for doubtful accounts and the allowance for sales returns, were $36.2 million
and $31.9 million at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are evaluated for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash
flows from the use of these assets. When any such impairment exists, the related
assets are written down to fair value.

     Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We
have reassessed the estimated useful lives of our intangible assets, which
primarily consist of non-compete agreements, and no changes were deemed
necessary.

GOODWILL

     At December 28, 2002, we had recorded approximately $310.3 million in
goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, primarily
related to acquisitions made in 2002 and prior years. In June 2001, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations", ("FAS 141"), and No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets", ("FAS 142"), effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2001. Under the new standards, goodwill and intangible assets
deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are subject to
annual impairment tests in accordance with FAS 142. We estimated the fair value
of our reporting units in accordance with the new standard and compared these
valuations with the respective book values for each of the reporting units to
determine whether any goodwill impairment existed. The goodwill is substantially
related to our healthcare distribution segment. In determining the fair value,
we consider past, present and future expectations of performance. As required by
FAS 142, we will complete subsequent goodwill impairment tests at least
annually. During the fourth quarter of 2002,



we completed the annual test using a methodology similar to the transitional
test and determined that there was no impairment of goodwill as of the first day
of the fourth quarter. Changes in market conditions, among other factors, could
have a material impact on these estimates.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     We account for stock option awards to employees under the intrinsic
value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". Under this method, no
compensation expense is recorded so long as the quoted market price of the stock
at the date of grant is equal to the exercise price. We make pro forma
disclosures of net income and earnings per share as if the fair value-based
method of accounting (the alternative method of accounting for stock-based
compensation) had been applied as required by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", ("FAS 123"). Had
we elected to use FAS 123 to account for stock-based compensation under the fair
value method, we would have been required to record compensation expense, and as
a result, diluted earnings per common share for the fiscal years ended December
2002, 2001, and 2000 would have been lower by $0.21, $0.16, and $0.19,
respectively.

PLAN OF RESTRUCTURING

     On August 1, 2000, we announced a comprehensive restructuring plan designed
to improve customer service and increase profitability by maximizing the
efficiency of our infrastructure. In addition to closing or downsizing certain
facilities, this worldwide initiative included the elimination of approximately
300 positions, including open positions, or approximately 5% of the total
workforce, throughout all levels within the organization. The restructuring plan
was substantially completed at December 30, 2000.

     For the years ended December 28, 2002 and December 30, 2000, we incurred
one-time restructuring costs of approximately $0.4 million ($0.4 million after
taxes) and $14.4 million, ($9.3 million after taxes), or approximately $0.01 and
$0.22 per diluted share, respectively, consisting primarily of: employee
severance costs, including severance pay and benefits of approximately $0.1
million and $7.2 million, respectively, facility closing costs, primarily lease
termination and asset write-off costs of approximately $0.3 million and $4.4
million, respectively, and outside professional and consulting fees directly
related to the restructuring plan of approximately $0.0 million and $2.8
million, respectively.

ACQUISITION STRATEGY

     Our results of operations in recent years have been significantly impacted
by strategies and transactions we undertook to expand our business, both
domestically and internationally, in part, to address significant changes in the
healthcare industry, including potential healthcare reform, trends toward
managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution
companies and collective purchasing arrangements.

     In connection with certain acquisitions completed during the year ended
December 30, 2000, we incurred certain merger and integration costs of
approximately $0.6 million. Net of taxes, merger and integration costs were
approximately $0.01 per share, on a diluted basis. Merger and integration costs
for the healthcare distribution and technology segments were $0.0 million and
$0.6 million for 2000. Merger and integration costs consist primarily of
investment banking, legal, accounting and advisory fees, severance, and
impairment of goodwill arising from acquired businesses integrated into our
medical and dental businesses, as well as certain other integration costs
associated with these mergers. During 2002, we revised our original estimates of
our merger and integration costs from prior years. The change in estimates was
attributable to facts and circumstances that arose subsequent to the original
charges. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2002, we reversed $1.2 million of
our previously recorded expenses. Net of taxes, merger and integration credits
were approximately $0.03 per share, on a diluted basis.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, Net Sales, Gross
Profit and Adjusted Operating Profit, excluding merger and integration, and
restructuring (credits) costs (in thousands), by business segment for the years
ended 2002, 2001, and 2000. Percentages are calculated on related net sales.



- ----------
     (1) Reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

     (2) Dental consists of our dental business in the United States and Canada.

     (3) Medical consists of our medical and veterinary businesses in the United
         States.

     (4) International consists of our business (primarily dental) outside the
         United States and Canada, primarily in Europe.

     (5) Technology consists of our practice management software business and
         certain other value-added products and services, which are distributed
         primarily to healthcare professionals in the United States and Canada.

     (6) Excludes merger and integration, and restructuring (credits) costs of
         $(0.7) million, $0.0 million, and $14.0 million in 2002, 2001, and
         2000, respectively.

     (7) Excludes merger and integration, and restructuring costs of $1.0
         million in 2000.



2002 COMPARED TO 2001

     For the year ended December 28, 2002, our net sales increased $266.8
million, or 10.4%, to $2,825.0 million in 2002, from $2,558.2 million in 2001.
Of the $266.8 million increase, approximately $256.3 million, or 96.1%,
represented a 10.2% increase in our healthcare distribution business. As part of
this increase, approximately $111.4 million represented an 11.3% increase in our
medical business, $105.9 million represented a 9.4% increase in our dental
business, and $39.0 million represented a 9.8% increase in our international
business. The increase in medical net sales was primarily attributable to
increased sales to core physicians' offices and alternate care markets. In the
dental market, the increase in net sales was primarily due to increased dental
equipment sales and services and increased penetration to existing customers
primarily driven by our Privileges loyalty program. Net sales of dental
consumable merchandise increased by 7.3%, while net sales of dental equipment
increased by 18.5%. In the international market, the increase in net sales was
primarily due to increased account penetration in France, the United Kingdom,
and Australia and by favorable exchange rates to the U.S. dollar. Had net sales
for the international market been translated at the same exchange rates in 2001,
net sales would have increased by 4.7%. The remaining increase in 2002 net sales
was due to the technology business, which increased $10.5 million, or 18.7%, to
$66.7 million for 2002, from $56.2 million for 2001. The increase in technology
and value-added product net sales was primarily due to increased sales of
software products and related services. As part of a new marketing initiative,
MarketOne, certain technology and equipment products were sold directly to
end-user customers beginning with the third quarter of 2002, rather than through
resellers, which resulted in a higher growth rate for the technology business.
Without this change, the technology business net sales would have increased
13.9%.

     Gross profit increased by $95.6 million, or 13.7%, to $794.9 million in
2002, from $699.3 million in 2001. Gross profit margin increased by 0.8% to
28.1%, from 27.3% in the prior year. Healthcare distribution gross profit
increased by $84.8 million, or 12.9%, to $743.9 million in 2002, from $659.1
million in 2001. Healthcare distribution gross profit margin increased by 0.7%,
to 27.0%, from 26.3% in the prior year primarily due to changes in sales mix.
Technology gross profit increased by $10.8 million, or 26.8%, to $51.0 million
in 2002, from $40.2 million in 2001. Technology gross profit margin increased by
4.9%, of which 1.0% was attributable to the MarketOne initiative referred to
above, to 76.5%, from 71.6% in the prior year primarily due to changes in sales
mix.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $47.0 million, or
8.5%, to $598.6 million in 2002, from $551.6 million in 2001. Selling and
shipping expenses increased by $36.0 million, or 10.8%, to $370.1 million in
2002, from $334.1 million in 2001. As a percentage of net sales, selling and
shipping expenses remained constant at 13.1% in 2002 compared to 2001. General
and administrative expenses increased $11.0 million, or 5.1%, to $228.5 million
in 2002, from $217.5 million in 2001. As a percentage of net sales, general and
administrative expenses decreased 0.4% to 8.1% in 2002, from 8.5% in 2001. The
decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the
elimination of goodwill amortization expense in accordance with FAS 142.

     Other income (expense) - net decreased by $0.8 million, to $(6.6) million
in 2002, from $(7.4) million for 2001, due primarily to the favorable settlement
of a real estate transaction.

     Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $0.3 million to $0.7 million in
2002, from $0.4 million in 2001.

     For 2002, our effective tax rate was 37.2%. For 2001, our effective tax
rate was 37.0%. The difference between our effective tax rates and the Federal
statutory rates relates primarily to state income taxes.



2001 COMPARED TO 2000

     We report financial results on a 52-53 week basis and, as such, the 2000
fiscal year included an additional week. For the year ended December 29, 2001,
net sales increased $176.5 million, or 7.4%, to $2,558.2 million in 2001, from
$2,381.7 million in 2000. On a comparable basis (excluding the additional week
in 2000), net sales growth was approximately 8.7%. Of the $176.5 million
increase, approximately $173.7 million, or 98.4%, represented a 7.5% (8.7% on a
comparable basis) increase in our healthcare distribution business. As part of
this increase, approximately $131.3 million represented a 15.4% (17.0% on a
comparable basis) increase in our medical business, $34.3 million represented a
3.2% (4.1% on a comparable basis) increase in our dental business, and $8.1
million represented a 2.1% (3.5% on a comparable basis) increase in our
international business. The increase in medical net sales was primarily
attributable to increased sales to core physicians' offices and alternate care
markets. In the dental market, the increase in net sales was primarily due to
increased account penetration. In the international market, the increase in net
sales was primarily due to increased account penetration in Germany, France, and
the United Kingdom, somewhat offset by unfavorable exchange rates to the U.S.
dollar. Had net sales for the international market been translated at the same
exchange rates in 2000, net sales would have increased by 5.8%. The remaining
increase in 2001 net sales was due to the technology business, which increased
$2.8 million, or 5.3% (6.1% on a comparable basis), to $56.2 million for 2001,
from $53.4 million for 2000. The increase in technology and value-added product
net sales was primarily due to increased sales of technology products and
related services.

     Gross profit increased by $51.4 million, or 7.9%, to $699.3 million in
2001, from $647.9 million in 2000. Gross profit margin increased by 0.1% to
27.3%, from 27.2% in the prior year. Healthcare distribution gross profit
increased by $49.0 million, or 8.0%, to $659.1 million in 2001, from $610.1
million in 2000. Healthcare distribution gross profit margin increased by 0.1%,
to 26.3%, from 26.2% in the prior year primarily due to changes in sales mix.
Technology gross profit increased by $2.4 million, or 6.4%, to $40.2 million in
2001, from $37.8 million in 2000. Technology gross profit margin increased by
0.8%, to 71.6%, from 70.8% in the prior year primarily due to changes in sales
mix.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $31.3 million, or
6.0%, to $551.6 million in 2001, from $520.3 million in 2000. Selling and
shipping expenses increased by $23.5 million, or 7.6%, to $334.1 million in
2001, from $310.6 million in 2000. As a percentage of net sales, selling and
shipping expenses increased 0.1% to 13.1% in 2001, from 13.0% in 2000. General
and administrative expenses increased $7.8 million, or 3.7%, to $217.5 million
in 2001, from $209.7 million in 2000. As a percentage of net sales, general and
administrative expenses decreased 0.3% to 8.5% in 2001, from 8.8% in 2000. The
decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reductions
in expenses associated with our restructuring program.

     Other income (expense) - net decreased by $(8.7) million, to $(7.4) million
in 2001, from $(16.1) million for 2000, due primarily to higher interest income
on long-term loans receivable and short-term investments, higher finance charge
income on trade accounts receivable, lower interest expense due to reductions in
long-term debt and bank credit line balances and lower interest rates, and in
2000, the non-recurring loss of $1.6 million after tax on the sale of our
software development unit in the United Kingdom.

     Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates increased $2.3 million to $0.4
million in 2001, from $(1.9) million in 2000. The increase is primarily due to a
non-recurring net loss of $1.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2000 from
the sale of our interest in HS Pharmaceutical, Inc.

     For 2001, our effective tax rate was 37.0%. The difference between our
effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate relates primarily to state
income taxes.

     For 2000, our effective tax rate was 37.4%. Excluding merger and
integration costs, the majority of which are not deductible for income tax
purposes, our effective tax rate would have been 37.3%. The



difference between our effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate relates
primarily to state income taxes.

SEASONALITY

     Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly influences. Net
sales and operating profits are generally higher in the fourth quarter due to
timing of sales of software and equipment, year end promotions and purchasing
patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and are generally lower in the
first quarter due primarily to the increased purchases in the prior quarter.
Quarterly results also may be materially affected by a variety of other factors,
including the timing of acquisitions and related costs, timing of purchases
and/or sales, special promotional campaigns, seasonal products, fluctuations in
exchange rates associated with international operations and adverse weather
conditions.

E-COMMERCE

     Traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being
impacted by electronic on-line commerce solutions. Our distribution business is
characterized by rapid technological developments and is highly competitive. The
rapid evolution of on-line commerce will require us to provide continuous
improvement in performance, features and reliability of Internet content and
technology, particularly in response to competitive offerings. Through our
proprietary technologically-based suite of products, we offer customers a
variety of competitive alternatives. We believe that our tradition of reliable
service coupled with our name recognition and large customer base built on solid
customer relationships makes us well situated to participate in this growing
aspect of the distribution business. We are exploring ways and means of
improving and expanding our Internet presence and will continue to do so.

INFLATION

     Management does not believe inflation had a material effect on the
financial statements for the periods presented.

EFFECT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, "Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", ("FAS 146"). This Statement
addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or
disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force, ("EITF"), Issue
No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and
Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring)", ("EITF 94-3"). The principal difference between this Statement
and EITF 94-3 relates to the Statement's requirements for recognition of a
liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity. This
Statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or
disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Under EITF 94-3,
a liability was recognized at the date of an entity's commitment to an exit
plan. This Statement is effective for exit or disposal activities that are
initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of FAS 146 to
have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

     In September 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue 00-21, "Accounting
for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables", ("EITF 00-21"). EITF 00-21
addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under
which it will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. Those arrangements
could involve the delivery or performance of multiple products, services, or
rights to use assets, and the performance could occur at different points in
time or over different periods of time. The Issue addresses when and, if so, how
a company should divide an arrangement involving multiple deliverables into
separate units of accounting. EITF 00-21 is effective for revenue arrangements
entered into in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2002. We do not expect
the adoption of EITF 00-21 to have a material impact on our financial position
or results of operations.



     On December 31, 2002, the FASB amended the transition and disclosure
requirements of FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation", ("FAS 123"), through the issuance of FASB Statement No. 148,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation--Transition and Disclosure", ("FAS
148"). FAS 148 amends the existing disclosures that a company should make in its
annual financial statements and requires, for the first time, disclosures in
interim financial reports. Those disclosures are required regardless of the
method being used to account for stock-based employee compensation. The amended
and new disclosure requirements are effective for our fiscal year ending
December 27, 2003. The adoption of the disclosure requirements of FAS 148 will
not have a material effect on our financial statements. As permitted under FAS
123, we apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees", ("APB 25") and related interpretations in accounting for
our employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of our
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the
date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

     In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others", ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 addresses the
disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
statements about its obligations under guarantees. The disclosure requirements
in this Interpretation are effective for financial statements of interim or
annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. We do not expect this
Interpretation to have an effect on the consolidated financial statements.

     In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities", ("FIN 46"). FIN 46 clarifies the application of
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to
certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the
entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. FIN 46 is applicable immediately for variable
interest entities created after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities
created prior to January 31, 2003, the provisions of FIN 46 are applicable no
later than July 1, 2003. We do not expect this Interpretation to have an effect
on our consolidated financial statements.

RISK MANAGEMENT

     We have operations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, Austria, Spain, Ireland, Portugal,
Australia and New Zealand. We endeavor to protect substantially all of our
operations' financial results by using foreign currency forward contracts to
hedge intercompany debt and the foreign currency payments to foreign vendors.
The total U.S. dollar equivalent of all foreign currency forward contracts
hedging intercompany debt and the purchase of merchandise from foreign vendors
was $73.6 million and $4.4 million, respectively, as of the end of fiscal 2002.
As of December 28, 2002, the fair value of these contracts, which expire through
January 2004, is determined by quoted market prices and was not material. For
the year ended December 28, 2002, we recognized an immaterial loss relating to
our foreign currency forward contracts.

     We consider our investment in foreign operations to be both long-term and
strategic. As a result, we do not hedge the long-term translation exposure to
our balance sheet. We have experienced positive and negative translation
adjustments of approximately $19.0 million and $(5.7) million in 2002 and 2001,
respectively, which were reflected in the balance sheet as a component of
stockholders' equity. The cumulative translation adjustment at the end of 2002
showed a net negative translation adjustment of $(4.8) million.



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Our principal capital requirements have been to fund (a) capital
expenditures, (b) acquisitions, and (c) working capital needs resulting from
increased sales and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities. Since sales
tend to be strongest during the fourth quarter and special inventory forward
buy-in opportunities are most prevalent just before the end of the year, our
working capital requirements have been generally higher from the end of the
third quarter to the end of the first quarter of the following year. We have
financed our business primarily through our operations, our revolving credit
facilities, private placement loans and stock issuances.

     Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 28,
2002 of $134.7 million resulted primarily from net income of $118.0 million and
non-cash charges of approximately $36.2 million, offset by a net increase in
operating items of working capital of approximately $19.5 million. The increase
in working capital items was primarily due to an increase in inventories of
$23.1 million, a $18.4 million increase in other current assets, and a $2.0
million increase in accounts receivable, offset by a $24.0 million increase in
accounts payable and accruals. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding
ratio improved to 48.2 days for the period ending December 28, 2002, from 53.5
days for the period ending December 29, 2001, primarily due to greater focus in
this area. Our inventory turns were 6.6 inventory turns for the period ending
December 28, 2002 compared to 6.9 inventory turns for the period ending December
29, 2001, primarily due to an increase in forward buy-ins and inventory stocking
for warehouses opened in 2002. We anticipate future increases in working capital
requirements as a result of our continued sales growth, extended payment terms
and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities.

     Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 28, 2002
of $142.8 million resulted primarily from cash used for the purchases of United
States government and government agency bonds, municipal bonds, and corporate
bonds rated AAA by Moody's (or an equivalent rating) and commercial paper rated
P-1 by Moody's (or an equivalent rating) with maturities of more than three
months, for which fair values are determined by quoted market prices, of $55.2
million, capital expenditures of $47.5 million, of which approximately $11.6
million was for the purchase of a building used for our corporate headquarters,
and business acquisitions of $36.2 million, of which $27.4 million represented
contingent earnout payments associated with acquisitions made in prior years.
During the past three years, we have invested $123.4 million in the development
of new computer systems, and for new and existing operating facilities. In the
coming year, we expect to invest in excess of $35.0 million in capital projects
to modernize and expand our facilities and infrastructure computer systems, and
integrate operations.

     Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 28,
2002 of $18.7 million resulted primarily from proceeds from the issuance of
stock upon exercise of stock options of $34.1 million, offset primarily by net
payments on long-term debt of $14.9 million.

     Certain holders of minority interests in entities we have acquired have the
right at certain times to require us to acquire their interest at a price that
approximates fair value pursuant to a formula price based on earnings of the
entity.

     Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 28, 2002 of $200.7 million
consist of bank balances and investments in money market funds. These
investments have staggered maturity dates, none of which exceed three months,
and have a high degree of liquidity since the securities are actively traded in
public markets.

     On May 2, 2002, we renewed and increased our revolving credit facility to
$200.0 million from $150.0 million. The new facility is a four year committed
line scheduled to terminate on May 2, 2006. There were no borrowings under the
credit facility at December 28, 2002. We also have one uncommitted bank line of
$15.0 million, of which no amounts have been borrowed against at December 28,
2002.



     On June 30, 1999 and September 25, 1998, we completed private placement
transactions under which we issued $130.0 million and $100.0 million,
respectively, in Senior Notes. The $130.0 million notes come due on June 30,
2009 and bear interest at a rate of 6.94% per annum. Principal payments totaling
$20.0 million are due annually starting September 25, 2006 on the $100.0 million
notes and bear interest at a rate of 6.66% per annum. Interest on both notes is
payable semi-annually. Certain of our subsidiaries have credit facilities that
totaled $28.2 million at December 28, 2002, under which $4.8 million had been
borrowed.

     The following table shows our contractual obligations related to fixed and
variable rate long-term debt, as well as lease obligations (See Notes 10 and 15
to the Consolidated Financial Statements):



     On March 12, 2003, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized
the repurchase of up to two million shares of our Common Stock, which
represented approximately 4.5% of shares outstanding on the announcement date.
We expect purchases to be made from time to time in the open market or through
negotiated transactions.

     We believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $200.7 million and our
investment in short-term marketable securities of $31.2 million as of December
28, 2002, our ability to access public and private debt and equity markets, and
the availability of funds under our existing credit agreements will provide us
with sufficient liquidity to meet our currently foreseeable short-term and
long-term capital needs.


ITEM 7A.  MARKET RISKS

     We are exposed to market risks, which include changes in U.S. and
international interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange
rates as measured against the U.S. dollar and each other. We attempt to reduce
these risks by utilizing financial instruments that are consistent with our
internal policies.

FORWARD FOREIGN CURRENCY CONTRACTS

     The value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar may
affect our financial results. Changes in exchange rates may positively or
negatively affect our revenues (as expressed in U.S. dollars), gross margins,
operating expenses, and retained earnings. Where we deem it prudent, we engage
in hedging programs aimed at limiting, in part, the impact of currency
fluctuations. Using primarily forward exchange contracts, we hedge those
transactions that, when remeasured according to accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States, may impact our statement of income. From time to
time, we purchase short-term forward exchange contracts to protect against
currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans, of a long-term
investment nature, due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of
merchandise purchases to foreign vendors. As of December 28, 2002, we had
outstanding foreign currency forward contracts aggregating $78.0 million, of
which $73.6 million



related to intercompany debt and $4.4 million related to the purchase of
merchandise from foreign vendors. The contracts hedge against currency
fluctuations of British Pounds ($38.1 million), Euros ($34.9 million),
Australian Dollars ($3.9 million), Swiss Francs ($0.8 million), Japanese Yen
($0.2 million), and New Zealand Dollars ($0.1 million). As of December 28, 2002,
the fair value of these contracts, which are determined by quoted market prices
and expire through January 2004, was not material. For the year ended December
28, 2002, we recognized an immaterial loss relating to our foreign currency
forward contracts.

     These hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency
exchange risks. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our programs
include volatility of the currency markets and availability of hedging
instruments. All currency contracts that we enter into are components of hedging
programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or
anticipated currency exposure, not for speculation. Although we maintain these
programs to reduce the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, when the
U.S. dollar sustains a strengthening position against currencies in which we
sell products and services, or a weakening exchange rate against currencies in
which we incur costs, our revenues or costs are adversely affected.

INTEREST RATES

     We are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates from borrowings under
certain variable bank credit lines and loan agreements. We have fixed rate debt
of $130.0 million at 6.94% and $100.0 million at 6.66%. If the remaining
outstanding debt at December 28, 2002 of $20.0 million was the average balance
for the following twelve month period and we experienced a 1% increase in
average interest rates, the interest expense for that period would have
increased by $0.2 million. Based upon current economic conditions, we do not
believe interest rates will increase substantially in the near future. As a
result, we do not believe that it is currently necessary to hedge our exposure
against potential future interest rate increases.

RISK FACTORS

     Stockholders and investors should carefully consider the risks described
below and other information in this annual report. Our business, financial
condition and operating results, and the trading price of our common stock could
be adversely affected if any of these risks materialize.

     -    The healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive,
          and we compete with numerous companies, including major manufacturers
          and distributors that have greater financial and other resources than
          us. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular
          products or manufacturers could increase their efforts to sell
          directly to end-users, thereby bypassing distributors like us.
          Consolidation among healthcare products distributors could result in
          existing competitors increasing their market position. In addition,
          unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain
          access to products or interruptions in supply of products from
          manufacturers, could adversely affect our operating results.

     -    In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant
          change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the
          reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance
          programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance
          plans; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare
          distribution companies; electronic commerce; and collective purchasing
          arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners. If we are
          unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the
          healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely
          affected.

     -    Our technology segment, which primarily sells practice management
          software and other value-added products, depends upon continued
          product development, technical support and marketing. Failures in
          these and related areas could adversely affect our results of
          operations.



     -    Our business is subject to requirements under various local, state,
          Federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to
          the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical
          devices, including the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the
          Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and the Controlled Substances
          Act. There is no assurance that current or future government
          regulations will not adversely affect our business.

     -    Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in
          the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as
          a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical
          and other healthcare products. We have insurance policies, including
          product liability insurance, and in many cases we have indemnification
          rights from manufacturers with respect to the products we distribute.
          There is no assurance that insurance coverage or manufacturers'
          indemnity will be available in all of the pending or any future cases
          brought against us, or that an unfavorable result in any such case
          will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of
          operations.

     -    Our business is dependent upon our ability to hire and retain
          qualified sales representatives, service specialists and other sales
          agents. Due to the relationships developed between our field sales
          representatives and their customers, upon the departure of a sales
          representative we face the risk of losing the representative's
          customers, especially if the representative becomes an employee of one
          of our competitors.

     -    Our business has been subject to seasonal and other quarterly
          fluctuations. Net sales and operating profits generally have been
          higher in the fourth quarter due to purchasing patterns of
          office-based healthcare practitioners and year end promotions. Net
          sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first
          quarter, primarily due to increased purchases in the prior quarter.

     -    Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, which
          could adversely affect our operating results. These risks include
          difficulties in opening and managing foreign offices and distribution
          centers; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution;
          fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles
          of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in
          foreign jurisdictions; import/export duties and quotas; and unexpected
          regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets.

     -    Our expansion through acquisitions and/or joint ventures could result
          in a loss of customers, diversion of management attention and
          increased demands on our operations, information systems and financial
          resources.

     -    We rely on third parties to ship products to our customers. Increases
          in shipping rates or interruptions of service could adversely affect
          our operating results.

     -    Changes in e-commerce could affect our business relationships and
          could require significant resources. The evolution of on-line
          commerce, including business-to-business exchanges, will require us to
          continuously improve the performance, security, features and
          reliability of Internet content and technology.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



All other schedules are omitted because the required information is either
inapplicable or is included in the consolidated financial statements or the
notes thereto.



               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Henry Schein, Inc.
Melville, New York

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Henry
Schein, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, and
the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 28, 2002. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Henry
Schein, Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 28, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

     As discussed in Note 5, the Company changed its policy of accounting for
goodwill in 2002 as required by Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement
No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets".


/s/ BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

New York, New York
February 27, 2003



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Henry Schein,
Inc. and all of its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively
the "Company"). Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which are greater than
or equal to 20% and less than or equal to 50% owned, are accounted for under the
equity method. All intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in
consolidation.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

FISCAL YEAR

     The Company reports its operations and cash flows on a 52-53 week basis
ending on the last Saturday of December. The fiscal years ended December 28,
2002 and December 29, 2001 consisted of 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended December
30, 2000 consisted of 53 weeks.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Sales are recorded when products are shipped or services are rendered to
customers, as the Company generally has no significant post delivery
obligations, the product price is fixed and determinable, collection of the
resulting receivable is probable and product returns are reasonably estimable.
Revenues derived from post contract customer support for practice management
software are deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the
support is to be provided, generally one year. Revenues from freight charged to
customers are recognized when products are shipped. Provisions for discounts,
rebates to customers, customer returns and other adjustments are provided for in
the period the related sales are recorded based on historical data.

MARKETABLE SECURITIES

     Marketable securities held by the Company are classified as
available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value. The fair value of
substantially all securities is determined by quoted market prices. Unrealized
gains and losses, net of related taxes, are included as a separate component of
stockholders' equity.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND CREDIT POLICIES

     The carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by a valuation
allowance that reflects management's best estimate of the amounts that will not
be collected. In addition to reviewing delinquent accounts receivable,
management considers many factors in estimating its general allowance, including
historical data, experience, customer types, credit worthiness, and economic
trends. From time to time, management may adjust its assumptions for anticipated
changes in any of those or other factors expected to affect collectability.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

     Allowances for accounts receivable, comprised primarily of the allowance
for doubtful accounts and the allowance for sales returns, were $36,200 and
$31,929 at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively.

DIRECT SHIPPING AND HANDLING COSTS

     Freight and other direct shipping costs are included in "Cost of sales".
Direct handling costs, which represent primarily direct compensation costs of
employees who pick, pack and otherwise prepare, if necessary, merchandise for
shipment to the Company's customers are reflected in "Selling, general and
administrative" expenses. These costs were approximately $23,200, $21,200, and
$17,700 for the years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

ADVERTISING

     The Company generally expenses advertising and promotional costs as
incurred. Total advertising and promotional expenses were approximately $13,900,
$14,300, and $13,900 for fiscal years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

INVENTORIES

     Inventories consist substantially of finished goods and are valued at the
lower of cost or market. Cost is determined primarily by the first-in, first-out
("FIFO") method.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

     Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed
primarily under the straight-line method over the following estimated useful
lives:



     Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line
method over the lesser of the useful life of the assets or the lease term.

     Capitalized software costs consist of costs to purchase and develop
software. Costs incurred during the application development stage for software
bought and further customized by outside vendors for the Company's use and
software developed by a vendor for the Company's proprietary use have been
capitalized. Costs incurred for the Company's own personnel who are directly
associated with software development are also capitalized.

TAXES ON INCOME

     The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability approach
that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the
expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the
Company's financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

consequences, the Company generally considers all expected future events other
than enactments of changes in tax laws or rates. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates will be recognized as income or
expense in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company files a
consolidated United States Federal income tax return with its 80% or greater
owned United States subsidiaries.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

     For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers all
highly liquid debt instruments and other short-term investments with an initial
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS

     The financial position and results of operations of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries are determined using local currency as the functional currency.
Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate
in effect at each year end. Income statement accounts are translated at the
average rate of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments
arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are
included in the accumulated comprehensive loss account in stockholders' equity.
Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in
earnings.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     On December 31, 2000, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities", ("FAS 133"), as amended and interpreted, which requires that all
derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. The
impact of adopting FAS 133 on the Company's Statement of Income and Balance
Sheet was not material.

     The Company uses derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in
foreign currencies. Derivative products, specifically foreign currency forward
contracts, are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures underlying certain
intercompany investments, debt and interest, and certain forecasted transactions
with foreign vendors. The Company does not enter such contracts for speculative
purposes.

     Most derivative instruments are designated as hedging instruments based on
exposure being hedged. Increases or decreases in the value of hedges (primarily
related to intercompany debt of a long-term investment nature) are included in
accumulated comprehensive income or loss. Derivatives that are not hedges are
adjusted to fair value through earnings.

     The fair value of derivative contracts at December 28, 2002 and December
29, 2001 was immaterial. The amount of net gains and losses during 2002 and 2001
was immaterial.

ACQUISITIONS

     The net assets of businesses purchased are recorded at their fair value at
the acquisition date and the consolidated financial statements include their
operations from that date. Any excess of acquisition costs over the fair value
of identifiable net assets acquired is included in goodwill. Certain
acquisitions provide



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

for contingent consideration, primarily cash, to be paid in the event certain
financial performance targets are satisfied over future periods. The Company's
policy is to record a liability and adjust goodwill for such amounts when the
targets are met.

GOODWILL

     In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations", ("FAS 141"),
and No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", ("FAS 142"), effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new standards,
goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer
amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with FAS 142.
The Company estimates fair value of its reporting units in accordance with the
new standard and compares these valuations with the respective book values for
each of the reporting units to determine whether any goodwill impairment exists.
The goodwill is substantially related to the Company's healthcare distribution
segment. In determining fair value, the Company considers past, present and
future expectations of performance. As required by FAS 142, the Company will
complete subsequent goodwill impairment tests at least annually. During the
fourth quarter of 2002, the Company completed the annual test using a
methodology similar to the transitional test and determined that there was no
impairment of goodwill as of the first day of the fourth quarter.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are evaluated for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash
flows from the use of these assets. When any such impairment exists, the related
assets are written down to fair value.

     Other intangible assets continue to be amortized over their estimated
useful lives. The Company has reassessed the estimated useful lives of its
intangible assets, which primarily consist of non-compete agreements, and no
changes have been deemed necessary.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees", ("APB 25"), and related interpretations in
accounting for its employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the exercise
price of the Company's employee stock options equals the market price of the
underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

     Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share has been
determined as if the Company and its acquired subsidiaries had accounted for its
employee stock options under the fair value method of Financial Accounting
Standards Board Statement No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation",
("FAS 123"). The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2002,
2001, and 2000 was $25.13, $17.05, and $8.85, respectively. The fair value for
these options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for 2002, 2001,
and 2000: risk-free interest rates of 4.8% for 2002, 5.0% for 2001, and 6.3% for
2000; volatility factor of the expected market price of the Company's Common
Stock of 49.6% for 2002, 48.0% for 2001, and 45.1% for 2000, assumed dividend
yield of 0% for all years and a weighted-average expected life of the option of
10 years.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

     Under the accounting provisions of FAS 123, the Company's net income and
net income per common share would have been adjusted to the pro forma amounts
indicated below:



EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic earnings per share includes no dilution and is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Diluted earnings per common share reflect, in periods in which they have
a dilutive effect, the effect of common shares issuable upon exercise of stock
options.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     Comprehensive income includes certain gains and losses that, under
generally accepted accounting principles, are excluded from net income as these
amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders' equity. The
Company's comprehensive income is comprised of net income, unrealized
gains (losses) on marketable securities and foreign currency translation
adjustments.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable
approximate fair value because of the immediate or short-term maturity of these
financial instruments. The carrying amount reported for long-term debt
approximates fair value because certain of the underlying instruments are at
variable rates, which are repriced frequently. The remaining portion of
long-term debt approximates fair value because the interest approximates current
market rates for financial instruments with similar maturities and terms.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, "Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", ("FAS 146"). This Statement
addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue
No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and
Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring)", ("EITF 94-3"). The principal difference between this Statement
and EITF 94-3 relates to the Statement's requirements for recognition of a
liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity. This
Statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or
disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Under EITF 94-3,
a liability was recognized at the date of an entity's commitment to an exit
plan. This Statement is effective for exit or disposal activities that are
initiated after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect the adoption of
FAS 146 to have a material impact on its financial position or results of
operations.

     In September 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue 00-21, "Accounting
for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables", ("EITF 00-21"). EITF 00-21
addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under
which it will perform multiple revenue generating activities. Those arrangements
could involve the delivery or performance of multiple products, services, or
rights to use assets, and the performance could occur at different points in
time or over different periods of time. The Issue addresses when and, if so, how
a company should divide an arrangement involving multiple deliverables into
separate units of accounting. EITF 00-21 is effective for revenue arrangements
entered into in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2002. The Company does
not expect the adoption of EITF 00-21 to have a material impact on its financial
position or results of operations.

     On December 31, 2002, the FASB amended the transition and disclosure
requirements of FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation", ("FAS 123"), through the issuance of FASB Statement No. 148,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure", ("FAS
148"). FAS 148 amends the existing disclosures that a company should make in its
annual financial statements and requires, for the first time, disclosures in
interim financial reports. Those disclosures are required regardless of the
method being used to account for stock-based employee compensation. The amended
and new disclosure requirements are effective for the Company for the fiscal
year ending December 27, 2003. The adoption of the disclosure requirements of
FAS 148 will not have a material affect on the Company's financial statements.
As permitted under FAS 123, management applies Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", ("APB 25"), and
related interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options. Under APB
25, because the exercise price of the Company's employee stock options equals
the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation
expense is recognized.

     In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, ("FIN 45"),
"Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others". FIN 45 addresses the disclosures
to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about
its obligations under guarantees. The disclosure requirements in this
Interpretation are effective for financial statements of interim or annual
periods ending after December 15, 2002. The Company does not expect this
Interpretation to have an effect on the consolidated financial statements.

     In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, ("FIN 46"),
"Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities". FIN 46 clarifies the application
of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to
certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the
entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. FIN 46 is applicable immediately for variable
interest entities created after January 31, 2003. For variable interest



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)

entities created prior to January 31, 2003, the provisions of FIN 46 are
applicable no later than July 1, 2003. The Company does not expect this
Interpretation to have an effect on the consolidated financial statements.

NOTE 2-EARNINGS PER SHARE

     A reconciliation of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings
per common share follows:



     Options to purchase approximately 30,000, 1,114,000, and 3,011,000, shares
of common stock at prices ranging from $46.80 to $54.00, $35.50 to $46.00, and
$19.73 to $46.00 per share that were outstanding during 2002, 2001, and 2000,
respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common
share for each of the respective years because the options' exercise prices
exceeded the fair market value of the Company's common stock.

NOTE 3-INVESTMENTS IN MARKETABLE SECURITIES

     Investments in available-for-sale securities at December 28, 2002 were as
follows:



- ----------
       (1)  Investments maturing between one and two years are recorded in
            investments and other.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3-INVESTMENTS IN MARKETABLE SECURITIES-(CONTINUED)

     The Company determines cost on the specific identification basis. Proceeds
from sales of available-for-sale securities were immaterial in 2002 and 2001.
There were no material gains or losses on the sales of securities in 2002. The
securities held on December 28, 2002 had contractual maturities of up to two
years. Expected maturities of debt securities may differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations
with or without penalty.

NOTE 4-PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

     Major classes of property and equipment consist of the following:



     The net book value of equipment held under capital leases amounted to
approximately $930 and $1,081 as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001,
respectively (See Note 15(b)).

NOTE 5-GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES, NET

     The Company completed the transitional goodwill impairment test required by
FASB Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", ("FAS 142"), in
the second quarter of 2002. The Company estimated fair value of its reporting
units in accordance with the new standard and compared these valuations with the
respective book values for each of the reporting units to determine whether any
goodwill impairment existed. In determining fair value, the Company considered
past, present and future expectations of performance and determined that there
was no goodwill impairment in any of the Company's reporting units as of the
adoption date, December 30, 2001.

     As required by FAS 142, the Company will complete subsequent goodwill
impairment tests at least annually. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company completed the annual test using a methodology similar to the
transitional test and determined that there was no impairment of goodwill as of
the first day of the fourth quarter.

     The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December
28, 2002 are as follows:





                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 5-GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES, NET-(CONTINUED)

     The acquisition costs incurred during the year ended December 28, 2002
related to contingent earnout payments relating to acquisitions made in prior
years, increased ownership interest in consolidated subsidiaries, and the
acquisition of a dental consumable supply business. The acquisition of the
dental consumable supply business was not material.

     With the adoption of FAS 142, the Company ceased amortization of goodwill
as of December 30, 2001. The following table presents the results of the Company
for all periods presented on a comparable basis:



     Other intangible assets as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001 are
as follows:



     Amortization of other intangible assets for the years ended December 28,
2002 and December 29, 2001 was approximately $1,085 and $1,300, respectively.
The annual amortization expense expected for the years 2003 through 2007 is
$763, $626, $485, $285, and $268, respectively.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 6-INVESTMENTS AND OTHER

     Investments and other consist of the following:



- ----------
     (1)  Long-term notes receivable carry interest rates ranging from 2.8% to
          12.0% and are due in varying installments through 2020. Long-term
          notes receivables include various notes due arising from the sale of
          certain businesses of approximately $22,532 in 2002 and $22,251 in
          2001.

     (2)  The Company's investment as of December 28, 2002 and December 29,
          2001, is a 50% interest in an unconsolidated affiliate, which is
          involved in the healthcare distribution business.

NOTE 7-BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

     During the year ended December 28, 2002, the Company completed the
acquisition of one healthcare distribution business and purchased additional
interest in three consolidated subsidiaries in Europe. These purchases were not
considered material either individually or in the aggregate.

     During the year ended December 29, 2001, the Company completed the
acquisition of two healthcare distribution businesses, which included the
purchase of the remaining 50% interest of an affiliate. Neither of these
purchases was considered material either individually or in the aggregate. The
two transactions were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and
have been included in the consolidated financial statements from their
respective acquisition dates.

     In 2000, the Company completed the acquisition of two healthcare
distribution businesses and one technology business, none of which were
considered material either individually or in the aggregate. Of the three
completed acquisitions, two were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting and the remaining acquisition was accounted for under the pooling of
interests method of accounting. The Company issued 465,480 shares of its Common
Stock, with an aggregate value of approximately $7,900 in connection with the
pooling transaction. The transactions completed under the purchase method of
accounting have been included in the consolidated financial statements from
their respective acquisition dates. The pooling transaction was not material and
accordingly, prior period financial statements have not been restated. Results
of the acquired company have been included in the consolidated financial
statements from the beginning of the second quarter of 2000.

     Summarized unaudited pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions
completed during fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, which were accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting, are not presented as the impact of reflecting the
Company's results of operations, which assumed the acquisitions occurred as of
the beginning of the fiscal period, is not material.

     During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company revised some of its
estimates of the merger and integration expenses from prior years. These changes
in estimates were attributable to facts and circumstances that arose subsequent
to the original charges.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 7-BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS-(CONTINUED)

     Merger and integration (credits) and costs were as follows:



- ----------
(1) Primarily investment banking and professional fees (primarily legal fees
    resulting from the acquisition).
(2) Primarily rent and consulting fees.

     The following table shows the activity in the merger and integration
accruals:



     As a result of the acquisitions and integration of certain businesses into
the Company's infrastructure, 870 employees were terminated through December 25,
1999. Of the terminated employees, 206 received severance during 1999, 37
received severance during 2000, 11 received severance during 2001, one received
severance during 2002, and one was owed severance at December 28, 2002.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 8-PLAN OF RESTRUCTURING

     On August 1, 2000, the Company announced a comprehensive restructuring plan
designed to improve customer service and increase profitability by maximizing
the efficiency of the Company's infrastructure. In addition to closing or
downsizing certain facilities, this worldwide initiative included the
elimination of approximately 300 positions, including open positions, or about
5% of the total workforce, throughout all levels within the organization.

     For the year ended December 30, 2000, the Company incurred one-time
restructuring costs of approximately $14,439 ($9,270 after taxes), consisting of
employee severance pay and benefits, facility closing costs, representing
primarily lease termination and asset write-off costs, and outside professional
and consulting fees directly related to the restructuring plan.

     During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company revised some of the original
estimates of its anticipated restructuring expenses. These changes in estimates
are attributable to facts and circumstances that arose subsequent to the
original charges. As a result, the Company recorded additional expenses.

     The following table shows amounts expensed and paid in 2002 for
restructuring costs that were initially incurred and accrued in 2000:



- ----------
     (1) Represents salaries and related benefits for employees separated from
         the Company.

     (2) Represents costs associated with the closing of certain equipment
         branches (primarily lease termination costs) and property and equipment
         write-offs.

     For the year ended December 30, 2000, 284 employees separated from the
Company and received severance payments in 2000. These employees were from
nearly all functional areas of the Company's operations.

     The Company paid severance to 104 of these employees during 2001, and to
six of these employees during 2002. At December 28, 2002, one employee was owed
severance pay and benefits related to the restructuring plan.

NOTE 9-BANK CREDIT LINES

     At December 28, 2002, certain subsidiaries of the Company had available
various short-term bank credit lines totaling approximately $28,209, expiring
through January 2004. Borrowings of $4,790 under these credit lines, bear
interest rates ranging from 3.65% to 6.50%, and were collateralized by accounts
receivable, inventory and property and equipment with an aggregate net book
value of $88,504 at December 28, 2002.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 10-LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of:



     As of December 28, 2002, the aggregate amounts of long-term debt maturing
in each of the next five years are as follows: 2003 - $2,662; 2004 - $1,672;
2005 - $859; 2006 - $20,753; 2007 - $20,520.

(a) PRIVATE PLACEMENT LOANS

     On June 30, 1999 and September 25, 1998, the Company completed private
placement transactions under which it issued $130,000 and $100,000,
respectively, in Senior Notes. The $130,000 notes come due on June 30, 2009 and
bear interest at a rate of 6.94% per annum. Principal payments on the $100,000
notes totaling $20,000 are due annually starting September 25, 2006 and bear
interest at a rate of 6.66% per annum. Interest on both notes is payable
semi-annually.

     The agreements governing our Senior Notes provide, among other things, that
the Company will maintain, on a consolidated basis, leverage and priority debt
ratios and a minimum net worth. The agreements also contain restrictions
relating to transactions with affiliates, annual dividends, mergers and
acquisitions, and liens.

(b) REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

     On May 2, 2002, the Company renewed and increased its revolving credit
facility to $200,000 from $150,000, extending the term to 2006. The interest
rate on any borrowings under the agreement is based on LIBOR, or prime, as
defined in the agreement, which were 1.48%, and 4.25%, respectively, at December
28, 2002. There were no borrowings outstanding at December 28, 2002. The
agreement provides, among other things, that the Company will maintain, on a
consolidated basis, as defined, interest coverage ratios, a maximum leverage
ratio, and contains restrictions relating to annual dividends in excess of
$25,000, guarantees of subsidiary debt, investments in subsidiaries, mergers and
acquisitions, liens, certain changes in ownership and employee and shareholder
loans.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 11-TAXES ON INCOME

     Taxes on income are based on income before taxes on income, minority
interest and equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates as follows:



     The provision (benefit) for taxes on income was as follows:



     The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to the Company's
deferred tax asset (liability) are as follows:


- ----------
     (1) Primarily relates to operating losses of foreign subsidiaries.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 11-TAXES ON INCOME-(CONTINUED)

     The net deferred tax asset is realizable as the Company has sufficient
taxable income in prior years to realize the tax benefit for deductible
temporary differences. The non-current deferred tax liability is included in
"Other liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     At December 28, 2002, the Company has domestic unconsolidated net operating
loss carryforwards of $3,340, which are available to offset future Federal
taxable income through 2022. Foreign net operating losses totaled $32,915 at
December 28, 2002. Such losses can be utilized against future foreign income. Of
these foreign net operating losses, $545 expire in 2006, whereas the remaining
have an indefinite life.

     The tax provisions differ from the amount computed using the Federal
statutory income tax rate as follows:



     Provision has not been made for U.S. or additional foreign taxes on
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which have been and will
continue to be reinvested. These earnings could become subject to additional tax
if they were remitted as dividends, if foreign earnings were loaned to the
Company or a U.S. affiliate, or if the Company should sell its stock in the
foreign subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine the amount of
additional tax, if any, that might be payable on the foreign earnings; however,
the Company believes that foreign tax credits would substantially offset any
U.S. tax. At December 28, 2002, the cumulative amount of reinvested earnings was
approximately $9,510.

NOTE 12-FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CREDIT RISK CONCENTRATIONS

(a) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies, the Company
is party to foreign currency forward contracts with major financial
institutions, which are used to hedge the foreign currency market exposures
underlying certain intercompany debt and certain forecasted transactions with
foreign vendors.

     As of December 28, 2002, the Company had outstanding foreign currency
forward contracts aggregating $78,012, of which, $73,633 related to intercompany
debt and $4,379 related to the purchase and sale of merchandise from foreign
vendors. The contracts hedge against currency fluctuations of British Pounds
($38,132), Euros ($34,916), Australian Dollars ($3,854), Swiss Francs ($794),
Japanese Yen ($234), and New Zealand Dollars ($82). As of December 28, 2002, the
fair value of these contracts, which are determined by quoted market prices and
expire through January 2004, was not material. For the year ended December 28,
2002, the Company recognized an immaterial loss relating to its foreign currency
forward contracts.

     While the Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance
by the counter parties of these contracts, the Company does not anticipate
non-performance by the counter parties. The Company does not require collateral
or other security to support these financial instruments.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 12-FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CREDIT RISK CONCENTRATIONS-(CONTINUED)

(b) CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

     Certain financial instruments potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk. These financial instruments consist primarily of
trade receivables and short-term cash investments. The Company places its
short-term cash investments with high credit quality financial institutions and,
by policy, limits the amount of credit exposure to any one financial
institution. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are
limited due to a large customer base and its dispersion across different types
of healthcare professionals and geographic areas. The Company maintains an
allowance for doubtful accounts based on the expected collectability of all
accounts receivable.

NOTE 13-SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

     The Company has two reportable segments: healthcare distribution and
technology. The healthcare distribution segment, which is comprised of the
Company's dental, medical, and international business groups, distributes
healthcare products (primarily consumable) and services to office-based
healthcare practitioners and professionals in the combined United States,
Canada, and international markets. Products, which are similar for each business
group, are maintained and distributed from strategically located distribution
centers. The technology segment consists primarily of the Company's practice
management software business and certain other value-added products and services
that are distributed primarily to healthcare professionals in the United States
and Canada.

     The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates segment
performance based primarily on operating income.

     The Company's reportable operations are strategic business units that offer
different products and services to the same customer base. Most of the
technology business was acquired as a unit, and the management at the time of
acquisition was retained. The following table presents information about the
Company's business segments:



- ----------
(1) Reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

(2) Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products,
    large dental equipment, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, surgical
    products, diagnostic tests, infection control and vitamins.

(3) Consists of products sold in Dental, Medical and Veterinary markets,
    primarily in Europe.

(4) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products and
    services, which are distributed primarily to healthcare professionals in the
    United States and Canada.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 13-SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA-(CONTINUED)



- ----------
  (1) Reclassified to conform to current period presentation.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 13-SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA-(CONTINUED)

     The following table reconciles segment totals to consolidated totals as of,
and for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001, and December 30,
2000:



- ----------
(1) Reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

     The following table presents information about the Company by geographic
area as of, and for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001, and
December 30, 2000. Revenues by geographic area are based on the respective
locations of the Company's subsidiaries. No individual country, except for the
United States, generated net sales greater than 10% of consolidated net sales.
There were no material amounts of sales or transfers among geographic areas and
there were no material amounts of United States export sales.



     The Company's subsidiary located in Germany had long-lived assets of
$85,230, $71,825, and $77,995 at December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001, and
December 30, 2000, respectively.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 14-STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(a) COMMON STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

     On November 30, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a
Stockholder Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan"), and declared a dividend under the
Rights Plan of one Common Stock purchase right (a "Right") on each outstanding
share of the Company's Common Stock. Until the occurrence of certain events,
each share of Common Stock that is issued will also have a Right attached to it.
The Rights provide, in substance, that should any person or group acquire 15% or
more of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company after the date of adoption
of the Rights Plan, each Right, other than Rights held by the acquiring person
or group, would entitle its holder to purchase a certain number of shares of
Common Stock for 50% of the then-current market value of the Common Stock.
Unless a 15% acquisition has occurred, the Company may redeem the Rights at any
time prior to the termination date of the Rights Plan. This Right to purchase
the Common Stock at a discount will not be triggered by a person's or group's
acquisition of 15% or more of the Common Stock pursuant to a tender or exchange
offer which is for all outstanding shares at a price and on terms that the Board
of Directors determines (prior to acquisition) to be adequate and in the
stockholders' best interests. In addition, the Right will not be triggered by
the positions of existing shareholders.

     Certain business combinations with an acquiring person or its affiliates
will trigger an additional feature of the Rights. Each Right, other than Rights
held by the acquiring person or group, will entitle its holder to purchase a
certain number of shares of the Common Stock of the acquiring person at a price
equal to 50% of the market value of such shares at the time of exercise.
Initially, the Rights will be attached to, and trade with, the certificates
representing the Company's outstanding shares of Common Stock and no separate
certificates representing the Rights will be distributed. The Rights will become
exercisable only if a person or group acquires, or commences a tender or
exchange offer for, 15% or more of the Company's Common Stock.

     The Board of Directors may, at its option, redeem all but not less than all
of the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $0.01 per Right at any
time prior to the earlier of (a) any person or group acquiring 15% or more of
the Company's Common Stock or (b) the final expiration date of November 30,
2008.

(b) STOCK OPTIONS

     The Company established the 1994 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") for the
benefit of certain employees. As amended in June 2001, pursuant to this plan the
Company may issue up to approximately 4,445,000 shares of its Common Stock. The
Plan provides for two classes of options: Class A options and Class B options. A
maximum of 237,897 shares of Common Stock may be covered by Class A options.
Both incentive and non-qualified stock options may be issued under the Plan.

     In 1995, Class A options to acquire 237,897 common shares were issued to
certain executive management at an exercise price of $4.21 per share,
substantially all of which became exercisable upon the closing of the Company's
initial public offering which was on November 3, 1995. The exercise price of all
Class B options issued has been equal to the market price on the date of grant,
and accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized. Substantially all
Class B options become exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date of
issuance, subject to acceleration upon termination of employment.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 14-STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY-(CONTINUED)

     On May 8, 1996, the Company's stockholders approved the 1996 Non-Employee
Director Stock Option Plan. As amended in June 2002, pursuant to this plan the
Company may grant options to each director who is not also an officer or
employee of the Company, for up to 100,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock.
The exercise price and term, not to exceed 10 years, of each option is
determined by the plan committee at the time of the grant. During 2002, 2001,
and 2000, 40,000, 12,000, and 0, options, respectively, were granted to certain
non-employee directors at exercise prices, which were equal to the market price
on the date of grant.

     Additionally, in 1997 as a result of the Company's acquisition of Sullivan
Dental Products, Inc. and Micro Bio-Medics, Inc., the Company assumed their
respective stock option plans (the "Assumed Plans"). Options granted under the
Assumed Plans of 1,218,000 and 1,117,000, respectively, are exercisable for up
to ten years from the date of grant at prices not less than the fair market
value of the respective acquirees' common stock at the date of grant, on a
converted basis.

     A summary of the status of the Company's two fixed stock option plans and
the Assumed Plans, and the related transactions is presented below:



     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 28, 2002:





                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 14-STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY-(CONTINUED)

(c) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN (ESOP)

     In 1994, the Company established an ESOP and a related trust as a benefit
for substantially all of its domestic employees. This plan supplements the
Company's Profit Sharing Plan, whereby a percentage, as defined, of the profit
sharing allocation granted to eligible employees is provided in shares of the
Company's Common Stock. Charges to operations related to this plan were $2,656,
$2,378, and $2,537 for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, based on the
prevailing market price of the Company's Common Stock on the date of issuance.
Under this plan, the Company issued 24,859, 61,997, and 121,253 shares of the
Company's Common Stock to the trust in 2002, 2001, and 2000, to satisfy the
2001, 2000, and 1999 contribution, respectively. The Company expects to fund the
2002 accrued contribution in 2003 with shares of the Company's Common Stock. As
of April 1, 1998, the Company's ESOP was merged into its 401(k) plan. Shares of
the Company's Common Stock are held in trust by the 401(k) plan.

PROFIT SHARING PLAN

     Prior to April 1, 1998, the Company had qualified contributory and
non-contributory 401(k) and profit sharing plans, respectively, for eligible
employees. As of April 1, 1998, the Company's profit sharing plan was merged
into its 401(k) plan. Assets of the profit sharing plan are now held in
self-directed accounts within the 401(k) plan. Contributions to the plans were
determined by the Board of Directors and charged to operations during 2002,
2001, and 2000 amounted to $5,341, $4,099, and $7,305, respectively.

     The Company provides a matching 401(k) contribution of up to 100% of the
participants' contributions for up to the first 7% of the employees' base
compensation. Forfeitures attributable to participants who leave the Company
before becoming fully vested are used by the Company to reduce the matching
contribution.

SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

     In 1994, the Company instituted an unfunded non-qualified supplemental
executive retirement plan for eligible employees. The increases in plan value
that were charged to operations, were $707, $426, and $360 for 2002, 2001, and
2000, respectively.

NOTE 15-COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(a)  OPERATING LEASES

     The Company leases facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating
leases expiring through 2016. Management expects that in the normal course of
business, leases will be renewed or replaced by other leases.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 15-COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES-(CONTINUED)

     Future minimum annual rental payments under the non-cancelable leases at
December 28, 2002 are as follows:



     Total rental expense for 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $25,837, $26,085, and
$29,730, respectively.

(b)  CAPITAL LEASES

     The Company leases certain equipment under capital leases. The following is
a schedule of approximate future minimum annual lease payments under the
capitalized leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease
payments at December 28, 2002:



(c)  LITIGATION

     The Company's business involves a risk of product liability claims and
other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time the
Company is named as a defendant in cases as a result of its distribution of
pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. As of December 28, 2002, the
Company was named a defendant in approximately 57 product liability cases. Of
these claims, 47 involve claims made by healthcare workers who claim allergic
reaction relating to exposure to latex gloves. In each of these cases, the
Company acted as a distributor of both brand name and Henry Schein(R) private
brand latex gloves, which were manufactured by third parties. To date, discovery
in these cases has generally been limited to product identification issues. The
manufacturers in these cases have withheld indemnification of the Company
pending product identification; however, the Company is taking steps to implead
those manufacturers into each case in which the Company is a defendant.

     On January 27, 1998, in District Court in Travis County, Texas, the Company
and one of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in a matter entitled
"Shelly E. Stromboe and Jeanne Taylor, on Behalf of Themselves and all others
Similarly Situated vs. Henry Schein, Inc., Easy Dental Systems, Inc. and
Dentisoft, Inc.", Case No. 98-00886. The Petition alleges, among other things,
negligence, breach of contract, fraud, and violations of certain Texas
commercial statutes involving the sale of certain practice management software
products sold prior to 1998 under the Easy Dental(R) name. In October 1999, the
trial court, on motion, certified both a Windows(R) sub-class and a DOS
sub-class to proceed as a class



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 15-COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES-(CONTINUED)

action pursuant to Tex. R. Civ. P. 42. It is estimated that 5,000 Windows(R)
customers and 10,000 DOS customers were covered by the class action that was
certified by the trial court. In November of 1999, the Company filed an
interlocutory appeal of the trial court's determination to the Texas Court of
Appeals on the issue of whether this case was properly certified as a class
action. On September 14, 2000, the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court's
certification order. On January 5, 2001, the Company filed a Petition for Review
in the Texas Supreme Court asking the Court to find that it had "conflicts
jurisdiction" to permit review of the trial court's certification order. The
Texas Supreme Court heard oral argument on February 6, 2002. On October 31,
2002, the Texas Supreme Court issued an opinion in the case holding that it had
conflicts jurisdiction to review the decision of the Court of Appeals and
finding that the trial court's certification of the case as a class action was
improper. The Supreme Court further held that the judgment of the court of
appeals which affirmed the class certification order must be reversed in its
entirety. Upon reversal of the class certification order, the Supreme Court
remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings consistent with its
opinion. On January 31, 2003, counsel for the class filed a Motion for Rehearing
with the Texas Supreme Court seeking a reversal for the Supreme Court's earlier
opinion reversing the class certification order. The Motion for Rehearing has
not yet been ruled upon and remains pending before the Texas Supreme Court.
Because the Texas Supreme Court has not yet ruled upon the Motion for Rehearing
and because this matter has not yet come before the trial court for
consideration consistent with the Texas Supreme Court's opinion reversing the
trial court's certification order, it is not possible to determine what the
trial court will do if the plaintiffs file another motion for class
certification. Further, because of the decertification of the class by the Texas
Supreme Court, the pending Motion for Rehearing before the Texas Supreme Court
and other factors, it is not possible to determine whether the trial court will
certify a different class upon motion, if any, and other factors, it is not
possible to determine the possible range of damages or other relief sought by
the plaintiffs in the trial court.

     In February 2002, the Company was served with a summons and complaint in an
action commenced in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Morris
County, entitled "West Morris Pediatrics, P.A. vs. Henry Schein, Inc., doing
business as Caligor", Case No. MRSL-421-02. The complaint by West Morris
Pediatrics purports to be on behalf of a nationwide class, but there has been no
court determination that the case may proceed as a class action. Plaintiff seeks
to represent a class of all physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers
throughout New Jersey and across the United States. This complaint, as amended
in August 2002, alleges, among other things, breach of oral contract, breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, violation of the New Jersey
Consumer Fraud Act, unjust enrichment, conversion, and promissory estoppel
relating to sales of a vaccine product in the year 2001. The Company filed an
answer in October 2002. Because damages have not been specified by the
plaintiffs, it is not possible to determine the range of damages or other relief
sought by the plaintiffs. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself
against this claim, as well as all other claims, suits and complaints.

     The Company has various insurance policies, including product liability
insurance, covering risks and in amounts it considers adequate. In many cases in
which the Company has been sued in connection with products manufactured by
others, the Company is provided indemnification by the manufacturer. There can
be no assurance that the coverage maintained by the Company is sufficient or
will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that
indemnification agreements will provide adequate protection for the Company. In
the opinion of the Company, all pending matters are covered by insurance or will
not otherwise seriously harm the Company's financial condition.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 15-COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES-(CONTINUED)

(d) EMPLOYMENT, CONSULTING AND NON-COMPETE AGREEMENTS

     The Company has employment, consulting and non-compete agreements expiring
through 2007 (except for a lifetime consulting agreement with a principal
stockholder, which provides for current compensation of $308 per year,
increasing $25 every fifth year with the next increase in 2007). The agreements
provide for varying base aggregate annual payments of approximately $3,988 per
year, which decrease periodically to approximately $1,441 per year. In addition,
some agreements have provisions for incentive and additional compensation.

NOTE 16-SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Cash paid for interest expense and income taxes amounted to the following:



     The fair value of assets acquired through business acquisitions is
indicated in the following table:





                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

NOTE 17-QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     The following presents certain unaudited quarterly financial data:





     The Company's business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly
influences. Net sales and operating profits are generally higher in the fourth
quarter due to the timing of sales of software and equipment, year end
promotions and purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners, and
are generally lower in the first quarter due primarily to the increased
purchases in the prior quarter. Quarterly results also may be materially
affected by a variety of other factors, including the timing of acquisitions and
related costs, timing of purchases, special promotional campaigns, fluctuations
in exchange rates associated with international operations and adverse weather
conditions.

     In 2002, influenza vaccine sales occurred earlier than they did in 2001.
The timing shift, from the fourth quarter to the third quarter, equated to
approximately $44,000 of third quarter 2002 sales, which net of related costs
and expenses, accounted for approximately $0.11 of the third quarter diluted
earnings per common share.

     Diluted earnings per share calculations for each quarter include the effect
of stock options, when dilutive to the quarter's weighted average number of
common shares outstanding for each period, and therefore the sum of the quarters
may not necessarily be equal to the full year earnings per share amount.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information set forth under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information set
forth under the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive 2002
Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A is incorporated herein
by reference.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive 2002 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive 2002 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive 2002 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.


ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     (a) EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. The Company's Chief
Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, after evaluating the
effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c), as of a date
within 90 days of the filing date of this annual report on Form 10-K (the
"Evaluation Date")), have concluded that as of the Evaluation Date, the
Company's disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective to
ensure that material information relating to the Company and its consolidated
subsidiaries is recorded, processed, summarized and reported by management of
the Company on a timely basis in order to comply with the Company's disclosure
obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the SEC rules
thereunder.

     (b) CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS. There were no significant changes in the
Company's internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect
the Company's disclosure controls and procedures subsequent to the Evaluation
Date, nor any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in such disclosure
controls and procedures requiring corrective actions.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1. Financial Statements
       The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company filed as a part of
       this report are listed on the index on page 31.

    2. Financial Statement Schedules
       Schedule II
       No other schedules are required.

    3. Exhibits
       The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K and filed herewith
       are listed in the Exhibit List immediately preceding the exhibits.

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       None.



SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the
City of Melville, State of New York, on March 24, 2003.

                                         Henry Schein, Inc.


                                         By: /s/ STANLEY M. BERGMAN
                                         Stanley M. Bergman
                                         CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND
                                         PRESIDENT

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Stanley M. Bergman, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Henry Schein, Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

        a)  designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
        material information relating to the registrant, including its
        consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
        entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
        being prepared;

        b)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
        and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
        this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

        c)  presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
        evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant's board of directors:

        a)  all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
        controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified
        for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal
        controls; and

        b)  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
        other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        controls; and

6.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have indicated in this
annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.


Dated: March 24, 2003                    /s/ Stanley M. Bergman
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Stanley M. Bergman
                                         Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
                                         President



                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Steven Paladino, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Henry Schein, Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

        a)  designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
        material information relating to the registrant, including its
        consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
        entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
        being prepared;

        b)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
        and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
        this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

        c)  presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
        evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant's board of directors:

        a)  all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
        controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified
        for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal
        controls; and

        b)  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
        other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        controls; and

6.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have indicated in this
annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.


Dated: March 24, 2003                    /s/ Steven Paladino
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Steven Paladino
                                         Executive Vice President and
                                         Chief Financial Officer



               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Henry Schein, Inc.
Melville, New York


The audits referred to in our report dated February 27, 2003 relating to the
consolidated financial statements of Henry Schein, Inc. and subsidiaries, which
is contained in ITEM 8 of the Form 10-K included the audit of the financial
statement schedule listed in the accompanying index. This financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the financial statement schedule based upon our
audits.

In our opinion the financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.


/s/ BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

February 27, 2003
New York, New York



                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



- ----------
(1) Primarily allowance for sales returns.



Unless otherwise indicated, exhibits are incorporated by reference to the
correspondingly numbered exhibits in the Company's Registration Statement on
Form S-1 (Commission File No. 33-96528).

     3.1    Form of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation.

     3.2    Amendments dated November 12, 1997 to Amended and Restated Articles
            of Incorporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the
            Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
            December 27, 1997).

     3.3    Amendment dated June 16, 1998 to Amended and Restated Articles of
            Incorporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, Reg. No. 333-59793).

     3.4    Form of By-laws.

     3.5    Amendments to Amended and Restated By-laws adopted July 15, 1997.
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-4, Reg. No. 33-36081).

     10.1   Amended and Restated HSI Agreement (the "HSI Agreement"), effective
            as of February 16, 1994, among the Company, Marvin H. Schein, the
            Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated
            September 9, 1994, the Charitable Trust established by Marvin H.
            Schein under Trust Agreement dated September 12, 1994, the Estate of
            Jacob M. Schein, the Trusts established by Articles Third and Fourth
            of the Will of Jacob M. Schein, the Trust established by Pamela
            Joseph under Trust Agreement dated February 9, 1994, the Trust
            established by Martin Sperber under Trust Agreement dated September
            19, 1994, the Trust established by Stanley M. Bergman under Trust
            Agreement dated September 15, 1994, Pamela Schein, Pamela Joseph,
            Martin Sperber, Stanley M. Bergman, Steven Paladino and James P.
            Breslawski (collectively, the "HSI Parties").

     10.2   HSI Registration Rights Agreement dated September 30, 1994, among
            the Company, Pamela Schein, the Trust established by Pamela Joseph
            under Trust Agreement dated February 9, 1994, Marvin H. Schein, the
            Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated
            December 31, 1993, the Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under
            Trust Agreement dated September 19, 1994, the Charitable Trust
            established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated
            September 12, 1994, Martin Sperber, the Trust established by Martin
            Sperber under Trust Agreement dated September 19, 1994, Stanley M.
            Bergman and the Trust.

     10.3   Letter Agreement dated September 30, 1994 to the Company from Marvin
            H. Schein, Pamela Joseph, and Pamela Schein.

     10.4   Release to the HSI Agreement dated September 30, 1994.

     10.5   Separation Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 by and between
            the Company, Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. and Schein Holdings, Inc.

     10.6   Restructuring Agreement dated September 30, 1994 among Schein
            Holdings, Inc., the Company, the Estate of Jacob M. Schein, Marvin
            H. Schein, the Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust
            Agreement dated December 31, 1993, the Trust established by Marvin
            H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated September 9, 1994, the
            Charitable Trust established



            by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated September 12, 1994,
            Pamela Schein, Pamela Joseph, the Trust established by Pamela Joseph
            under Trust Agreement dated February 9, 1994, the Trusts under
            Articles Third and Fourth of the Will of Jacob M. Schein; Stanley M.
            Bergman, the Trust established by Stanley M. Bergman under Trust
            Agreement dated September 15, 1994, Martin Sperber, the Trust
            established by Martin Sperber under Trust Agreement dated December
            31, 1993, and the Trust established by Martin Sperber under Trust
            Agreement dated September 19, 1994.

     10.7   Agreement and Plan of Corporate Separation and Reorganization dated
            as of September 30, 1994 among Schein Holdings, Inc., the Company,
            the Estate of Jacob M. Schein, Marvin H. Schein, the Trust
            established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated December
            31, 1993, the Trust established by Marvin H. Schein under Trust
            Agreement dated September 9, 1994, the Charitable Trust established
            by Marvin H. Schein under Trust Agreement dated September 12, 1994,
            Pamela Schein, the Trust established Article Fourth of the Will of
            Jacob M. Schein for the benefit of Pamela Schein and her issue under
            Trust Agreement dated September 29, 1994, Pamela Joseph, the Trust
            established by Pamela Joseph under Trust Agreement dated February 9,
            1994, the Trust established by Pamela Joseph under Trust Agreement
            dated September 28, 1994 and the Trusts under Articles Third and
            Fourth of the Will of Jacob M. Schein.

     10.8   Henry Schein, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated
            effective as of June 6, 2001 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
            ended June 30, 2001).**

     10.9   Henry Schein, Inc. Amendment and Restatement of the Supplemental
            Executive Retirement Plan.**

     10.10  Consulting Agreement dated September 30, 1994 between the Company
            and Marvin H. Schein.**

     10.11  Amended and Restated Stock Issuance Agreement dated as of December
            24, 1992 between the Company and Stanley M. Bergman.**

     10.12  Stock Issuance Agreements dated December 27, 1994 between the
            Company and various executive officers.**

     10.13  Form of Henry Schein, Inc. 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option
            Plan as amended and restated effective as of June 5, 2002.**+

     10.14  Henry Schein, Inc. 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.**+

     10.15  Employment Agreement dated March 7, 1997, between Bruce J. Haber and
            the Company (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-30615)).

     10.16  Termination of Employment Agreement, dated March 7, 1997 as revised,
            between Bruce J. Haber and the Company (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.92 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4
            (Registration No. 333-30615)).



     10.17  Lease Agreement dated December 23, 1997, between First Industrial
            Pennsylvania, L.P. and the Company (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.103 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
            fiscal year ended December 26, 1998).

     10.18  Credit Agreement, dated as of May 2, 2002, among the Company, the
            several guarantors from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase
            Bank, as administrative agent, issuing lender, sole lead arranger
            and sole book runner, Fleet National Bank, as syndication agent, and
            the several lenders from time to time parties thereto. (Incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2002).

     10.19  Henry Schein Inc., Senior Executive Group 2002 Performance Incentive
            Plan Summary (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the
            Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
            December 29, 2001).**

     10.20  Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Company, New River
            Management Company, L.L.C., Chiron Corporation and Biological &
            Popular Culture Inc., dated as of December 8, 1998 (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
            dated December 31, 1998).

     10.21  Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 30, 1998, to the Stock
            Purchase Agreement by and among the Company, New River Management
            Company, L.L.C., Chiron Corporation and Biological & Popular Culture
            Inc., dated as of December 8, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 2.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
            December 31, 1998).

     10.22  Rights Agreement dated as of November 30, 1998, between the Company,
            and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Co. (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,
            dated November 30, 1998).

     10.23  Form of the Note Purchase Agreements between the Company and the
            Purchasers listed on Schedule A thereto relating to an aggregate of
            $130,000,000 in principal amount of the Company's 6.94% Senior Notes
            due June 30, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
            Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
            26, 1999).

     10.24  Form of Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreements dated
            January 1, 2003 between the Company and Gerald Benjamin, James
            Breslawski, Leonard David, Larry Gibson, Mark Mlotek, Steven
            Paladino, Michael Racioppi and Michael Zack, respectively.**+

     10.25  Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2003 between the Company
            and Stanley M. Bergman.**+

     10.26  Form of Note Purchase Agreements between the Company and the
            Purchasers listed on Schedule A thereto relating to an aggregate of
            $100,000,000 in principal amount of the Company's 6.66% Senior Notes
            due July 15, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.111 to
            the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            September 26, 1998).

     21.1   List of Subsidiaries of the Company.

     23.1   Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP.+




     99.1   Certificate of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief
            Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
            of 2002.+

- ----------
+ Filed herewith
** Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or agreement



