
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT







                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                        FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

X     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934
      For the fiscal year ended December 25, 1999

__    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission file number 0-27078

                               HENRY SCHEIN, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


            DELAWARE                                     11-3136595
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

                                 135 Duryea Road
                               Melville, New York
                   (Address of principal executive offices)
                                   (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (631) 843-5500

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                      None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                          Common Stock, par value $.01
                                (Title of class)

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

YES:  X     NO: __

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. __

      The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales
price as quoted on the NASDAQ National Market on March 20, 2000, was
approximately $611,880,465.

      As of March 20, 2000, 40,792,031 shares of registrant's Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, were outstanding.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:
Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
(December 25, 1999) are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.





                                



                                     PART I

ITEM  1.  Business

General

      The Company is the largest distributor of healthcare products and services
to office-based healthcare practitioners in the combined North American and
European markets. The Company has operations in the United States, Canada,
Mexico, the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, the
Republic of Ireland, Austria, Spain, Israel, Australia and New Zealand, and
conducts its business principally through two segments; healthcare distribution
and technology. These segments, which are operated as individual business units,
offer different products and services, albeit to the same customer base. The
healthcare distribution segment consists of the Company's dental, medical,
veterinary and international groups. The international group is comprised of the
Company's healthcare distribution business units located primarily in Europe and
the Pacific Rim, and offer products and services to dental, medical and
veterinary customers located in their respective geographic regions. The
technology segment consists primarily of the Company's practice management
software business and certain other value-added products and services which are
distributed primarily to healthcare professionals in the North American market.

      The Company sells products and services to over 400,000 customers,
primarily dental practices and dental laboratories, as well as physician
practices, veterinary clinics and institutions. In 1999, the Company's
healthcare distribution business sold products to over 75% of the estimated
110,000 dental practices in the United States. The Company believes that there
is strong awareness of the "Henry Schein" name among office-based healthcare
practitioners due to its more than 65 years of experience in distributing
healthcare products. Through its comprehensive catalogs and other direct sales
and marketing programs, the Company offers its customers a broad product
selection of both branded and private brand products which includes in excess of
70,000 stock keeping units ("SKU's") in North America, approximately 60,000
SKU's in Europe and approximately 23,000 SKU's in Australia, at published prices
that the Company believes are below those of many of its competitors. The
Company, through its technology business unit, offers various value-added
products and services such as practice management software. As of December 25,
1999, the Company sold over 33,000 dental practice management software
systems; more than any of its competitors.

      For further information on the Company's operating segments, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in ITEM 7 and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

      During 1999, the Company distributed over 14.O million pieces of direct
marketing materials (such as catalogs, flyers and order stuffers) to
approximately 650,000 office-based healthcare practitioners. The Company
supports its direct marketing efforts with approximately 800 telesales
representatives who facilitate order processing and generate sales through
direct and frequent contact with customers and with approximately 1,150 field
sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists. The Company utilizes
database segmentation techniques to more effectively market its products and
services to customers. The Company continues to expand its management
information systems and has established strategically located distribution
centers in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia to enable it to
better serve its customers and increase its operating efficiency. The Company
believes that these investments, coupled with its broad product offerings,
enable the Company to provide its customers with a single source of supply for
substantially all their healthcare product needs and provide them with
convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment. The
Company estimates that approximately 99% of all orders in the United States and
Canada received before 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., respectively, are shipped on the
same day the order is received and approximately 99% of orders are received by
the customer within two days of placing the order. In addition, the Company
estimates that approximately 99% of all items ordered in the United States and
Canada are shipped without back ordering.




Acquisition and Joint Venture Strategies

      The Company believes that there has been consolidation among healthcare
products distributors serving office-based healthcare practitioners and that
this consolidation will continue to create opportunities for the Company to
expand through acquisitions and joint ventures. In recent years, the Company has
acquired or entered into agreements with a number of companies engaged in
businesses that are complementary to those of the Company. The Company's
acquisition and joint venture strategies include acquiring additional sales that
will be channeled through the Company's existing infrastructure, acquiring
access to additional product lines, acquiring regional distributors with
networks of field sales consultants and international expansion. During the year
ended December 25, 1999, the Company completed nine acquisitions. The completed
acquisitions, which had aggregate net sales for 1998 of approximately $324.0
million, included (a) four international companies, (b) four medical supply
companies, and (c) one valued-added services company. Of the nine completed
acquisitions, eight were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting
and the remaining acquisition was accounted for under the pooling of interests
method of accounting.

      During 1998, the Company acquired five companies, which had aggregate net
sales for 1997 of approximately $265.0 million, including (a) two dental supply
companies, the most significant of which was the H. Meer Dental Supply Co., Inc.
("Meer"); (b) two medical supply companies and (c) one international dental
supply company. Of the five completed acquisitions, four were accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting, and the remaining
acquisition of a 50.1% interest was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting.

      During 1997, the Company acquired 24 healthcare distribution businesses.
The 1997 acquisitions, which had aggregate net sales for 1996 of approximately
$558.6 million, included (a) eleven dental supply companies, the most
significant of which was Sullivan Dental Products, Inc. ("Sullivan"); (b) four
medical supply companies, the most significant of which was Micro Bio-Medics,
Inc. ("MBMI"); (c) two international dental and three international medical
supply companies; (d) three technology and value-added product companies; the
most significant of which was Dentrix Dental Systems, Inc. ("Dentrix"); and (e)
certain assets and the business of IDE Interstate, Inc., a direct marketer of
healthcare products to dentists, doctors and veterinarians. Of the 24 completed
acquisitions, six were accounted for under the pooling of interests method, with
the remainder being accounted for under the purchase method of accounting
(fourteen for 100% ownership interest and three for majority ownership
interests).

Customers

      The Company, through its healthcare distribution and technology
businesses, serves over 400,000 customers worldwide in the dental, medical and
veterinary markets. The Company's dental customers include office-based dental
practices, dental laboratories, universities, institutions, governmental
agencies and large group and corporate accounts; medical customers include
office-based physician practices, podiatrists, surgery centers, institutions,
hospitals and governmental agencies; and the Company's veterinary products are
sold primarily to office-based veterinarians serving primarily small companion
animals.

      The Company believes that its healthcare distribution customers generally
order from two or more suppliers for their healthcare product needs, and often
use one supplier as their primary resource. The Company believes that its
customers generally place larger orders and order more frequently from their
primary suppliers. The Company estimates that it serves as a primary supplier to
less than 15% of its total customer base and believes it has an opportunity to
increase sales by increasing its level of business with those customers for
which it serves as a secondary supplier.

      Over the past several years; the Company has expanded its customer base to
include larger purchasing organizations, including certain dental laboratories,
institutions, government agencies, hospitals,




and surgery centers. More recently, as cost-containment pressures have resulted
in increased demand for low-cost products and value-added services, the Company
has targeted specific groups of practices under common ownership, institutions
and professional groups. For example, the Company has an exclusive direct
marketing agreement with an American Medical Association ("AMA") sponsored
service and a veterinarian-sponsored service, pursuant to which member
practitioners have access to the services' lower priced products. In 1999, the
AMA-sponsored service and the veterinarian-sponsored purchasing service
accounted for net sales of over $39.7 million. These services, government
institutions and agencies, hospitals and other large or collective purchasers,
require low-cost pricing and detailed product and usage information and
reporting. The Company believes it is well situated to meet the needs of these
customers, given its broad, low-cost product offerings and its management
information systems. No single customer accounted for more than 1.0% of net
sales in 1999.

Sales and Marketing

      The Company's sales and marketing efforts, which are designed to establish
and solidify customer relationships through personal visits by field sales
representatives and frequent direct marketing contact, emphasize the Company's
broad product lines, competitive prices and ease of order placement. The key
elements of the Company's program in the United States are:

      Direct Marketing. During 1999, the Company distributed over 14.0 million
      pieces of direct marketing material, including catalogs, flyers, order
      stuffers and other promotional materials to approximately 650,000
      office-based healthcare practitioners. The Company's principal U.S. dental
      catalog, which is issued semi-annually, contains an average of over 450
      pages and includes approximately 36,000 SKU's. The number of catalogs and
      other materials received by each customer depends upon the market they
      serve, as well, as their purchasing history. The Company's catalogs
      include detailed descriptions and specifications of both branded and
      private brand products and are utilized by healthcare practitioners as a
      reference source. By evaluating its customers' purchasing patterns, area
      of specialty, past product selections and other criteria, the Company
      identifies customers who may respond better to specific promotions or
      products. To facilitate its direct marketing activities, the Company
      maintains an in-house advertising department, which performs many creative
      services, which the Company believes streamlines the production process,
      provides greater flexibility and creativity in catalog production, and
      results in cost savings.

      Telesales. The Company supports its direct marketing with approximately
      800 inbound and outbound telesales representatives who facilitate order
      processing and generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with
      customers. Inbound telesales representatives are responsible for assisting
      customers in purchasing decisions, as well as, answering product pricing
      and availability questions. In addition to assisting customers, inbound
      telesales representatives also market complementary or promotional
      products. The Company's telesales representatives utilize on-line computer
      terminals to enter customer orders and to access information about
      products, product availability, pricing, promotions and customer buying
      history.

      The Company utilizes outbound telesales representatives and programs to
better market its services to those customer accounts identified by the Company
as either being high volume or high order frequency accounts. The Company's U.S.
dental outbound telesales representatives accounted for approximately $205.6
million of the Company's net sales in 1999. The Company has approximately 250
medical and veterinary telesales representatives, many of which make outbound
calls in addition to handling inbound telesales. Outbound telesales
representatives strive to manage long-term relationships with these customers
through frequent and/or regularly scheduled phone contact and personalized
service.

      The Company's telesales representatives generally participate in an
initial two-week training course designed to familiarize the sales
representative with the Company's products, services and systems. In




addition, generally all telesales representatives attend periodic training
sessions and special sales programs and receive incentives, including monthly
commissions.

      Field Sales Consultants. The Company has approximately 1,150 field sales
      consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering certain major
      North American, European and Pacific Rim markets. These field
      sales consultants concentrate on attracting new customers and increasing
      sales to customers who do not currently order a high percentage of their
      total product needs from the Company. This strategy is designed to
      complement the Company's direct marketing and telesales strategies and to
      enable the Company to better market, service and support the sale of more
      sophisticated products and equipment. Once a field sales consultant has
      established a relationship with a customer, the consultant encourages the
      customer to use the Company's automated ordering process or its telesales
      representatives for its day-to-day needs. This simplifies the ordering
      process for the customer and increases the effectiveness of the field
      sales consultant.

Customer Service

      A principal element of the Company's customer service approach is to offer
an order entry process that is convenient, easy and flexible. Customers
typically place orders with one of the Company's experienced telesales
representatives. Orders may also be placed 24-hours a day by fax, mail,
Internet, its computerized order entry system known as ArubA(R), or ArubA(R)
TouchTone (the Company's 24-hour automated phone service).

      The Company focuses on providing rapid and accurate order fulfillment and
high fill rates. The Company estimates that approximately 99% of all items
ordered in the United States and Canada are shipped without back ordering, and
that approximately 99% of all orders in the United States and Canada received
before 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., respectively, are shipped on the same day the
order is received. In addition, because the Company seeks to service a
customer's entire order from the distribution center nearest the customer's
facility, approximately 99% of orders are received within two days of placing
the order. The Company continually monitors its customer service through
customer surveys, focus groups and daily statistical reports. The Company
maintains a liberal return policy to better assure customer satisfaction with
its products.

Products

      The following chart sets forth the principal categories of products
offered by the Company's healthcare distribution and technology businesses and
certain top selling types of products in each category, with the percentage of
1999 consolidated net sales in parenthesis:




                         HEALTHCARE DISTRIBUTION (96.8%)
                         -------------------------------


                             Dental Products (57.6%)
                             -----------------------




          TECHNOLOGY AND OTHER VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES (3.2%)
          -------------------------------------------------------------
          Software and Related Products; other value-added products


      The percentage of 1998 and 1997 net sales was as follows: consumable
dental products and small equipment, 49.8% and 51.1%, respectively; dental
laboratory products, 3.6% and 3.3%, respectively; large dental equipment, 12.9%
and 13.6%, respectively; medical products, 28.5% and 26.7%, respectively;
veterinary products, 2.7% and 2.9%, respectively; and technology and value-added
products and services, 2.5% and 2.4%, respectively.

Consumable Supplies and Equipment

      The Company offers in excess of 70,000 SKU's to its customers in North
America, of which approximately 55,000 SKU's are offered to its dental
customers, approximately 23,000 are offered to its medical customers and
approximately 22,000 are offered to its veterinary customers. Over 25% of the
Company's products are offered to all three types of the Company's customers in
North America. The Company offers approximately 60,000 SKU's and 23,000 SKU's to
its customers in Europe and Australia, respectively. Approximately 7.9% of the
Company's net sales in 1999 were from sales of products offered under the Henry
Schein private brand (i.e., products manufactured by various third parties and
HS Pharmaceutical for distribution by the Company under the Henry Schein(R)
brand). The Company believes that the Henry Schein private brand line of over
7,500 SKU's offered in the United States and Canada is one of the most
extensive in the industry. The Company also distributes certain generic
pharmaceuticals manufactured by HS Pharmaceutical, a 50%-owned affiliated
company. The Company updates its product offerings regularly to meet its
customers' changing needs.

      The Company offers a repair service, ProRepair(R), which provides one to
two-day turnaround for hand pieces and certain small equipment. The Company also
provides in-office installation and repair services for large equipment in
certain markets in North America, Europe and the Pacific Rim. The Company had a
total of 115 centers open at the end of 1999.

      The Company offers its customers assistance in managing their practices
providing access to a number of financial services and products at rates which
the Company believes are lower than what they would be able to secure
independently. The Company's equipment leasing programs allow it to fulfill a
wide variety of practitioner financing needs. The Company also provides
financing and consulting services for all phases of a physician's practice
including practice start-up, practice acquisition and debt consolidation. The
patient financing program provides the Company's dental




and veterinary customers a method for reducing receivables and improving cash
flow by providing patients access to financing. Through an arrangement with one
of the nations largest bank credit card processors, the Company offers
electronic bankcard processing. The Company also offers electronic insurance
claims submission services for faster, cheaper processing of patient
reimbursements, all through a third-party provider for a transaction fee. The
Company does not assume any financial obligation to its customers or their
patients in these programs. The Company also offers practice management
consulting services in selected markets in the United States.

Technology and Other Value-Added Products and Services

      The Company sells practice management software systems to its dental and
veterinary customers. The Company sold over 23,500 and 9,900 units of its
Easy Dental(R) Plus and Dentrix software systems, respectively, as of the end of
fiscal 1999, and over 3,900 of its AVImark(R) veterinary software systems which
includes conversions. The Company's practice management software products
provide practitioners with patient treatment history, billing and accounts
receivable analysis and management, an appointment calendar, electronic claims
processing and word processing programs. The Company provides technical support
and conversion services from other software. In addition, the Easy Dental(R)
Plus and Dentrix software systems allow customers to connect with the Company's
order entry management systems. The Dentrix system is one of the most
comprehensive clinically-based dental practice management software packages in
the United States. The Dentrix premium software product complements Easy
Dental(R) Plus, the Company's high-value practice management system. The Company
believes the combined software product offerings enhance its ability to provide
its customers with the widest array of system solutions to help manage their
practices.

Information Systems

      The Company's management information systems generally allow for
centralized management of key functions, including inventory and accounts
receivable management, purchasing, sales and distribution. A key attribute of
the Company's management information systems is the daily operating control
reports which allow managers throughout the Company to share information and
monitor daily progress relating to sales activity, gross profit, credit and
returns, inventory levels, stock balancing, unshipped orders, order fulfillment
and other operational statistics. The Company continually seeks to enhance and
upgrade its order processing information system. Additionally, in the United
States, the Company has installed an integrated information system for its large
dental equipment sales and service functions. Such systems centralize the
tracking of customers' equipment orders as well as spare parts inventories and
repair services. (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Conditions and Results of Operation" in ITEM 7.)

Distribution

      The Company distributes its products in the United States primarily from
its strategically located distribution centers in Eastern, Central, South
Western and Western United States. Customers in Canada are serviced from
distribution centers located in Eastern and Western Canada. The Company
maintains significant inventory levels of certain products in order to satisfy
customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment of their
product needs. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid
of the Company's sophisticated purchasing and stock status management
information systems. Once a customer's order is entered, it is electronically
transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer's location and a
packing slip for the entire order is printed for order fulfillment. The




Company's automated freight manifesting and laser bar code scanning facilitates
the speed of the order fulfillment. The Company currently ships substantially
all of its orders in the United States by United Parcel Service. In certain
areas of the United States, the Company delivers its orders via contract
carriers. The Company's European and Pacific Rim distribution centers include
locations in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, France, The
Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Australia and New Zealand.

Purchasing

      The Company believes that effective purchasing is a key element to
maintaining and enhancing its position as a low-cost provider of healthcare
products. The Company frequently evaluates its purchase requirements and
suppliers' offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the best possible
cost. The Company believes that its ability to make high volume purchases has
enabled it to obtain favorable pricing and terms from its suppliers. The Company
obtains its products for its North American distribution centers from over 2,000
suppliers of name brand products; in addition, the Company has established
relationships with numerous local vendors to obtain products for its European
and Pacific Rim distribution centers. In 1999, the Company's top 10 healthcare
distribution vendors and the Company's single largest vendor, accounted for
approximately 22.2% and 8.1%, respectively, of the Company's aggregate
purchases.

Competition

      The distribution and manufacture of healthcare supplies and equipment is
intensely competitive. Many of the healthcare distribution products the Company
sells are available to the Company's customers from a number of suppliers. In
addition, competitors of the Company could obtain exclusive rights from
manufacturers to market particular products. Manufacturers could also seek to
sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate the role of distributors, such
as the Company. Significant price reductions by the Company's competitors could
result in a similar reduction in the Company's prices as a consequence of its
policy of matching its competitors' lowest advertised prices. Any of these
competitive pressures may materially adversely affect operating results.

      In the United States, the Company competes with other distributors, as
well as several major manufacturers of dental, medical and veterinary products,
primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, customer service and
value-added services and products. In the sale of its dental products, the
Company's principal national competitor is Patterson Dental Co. In addition, the
Company competes against a number of other distributors that operate on a
national, regional and local level. The Company's principal competitors in the
sale of medical products are PSS World Medical, Inc. and the General Medical
division of McKesson HBOC, Inc., which are national distributors. In the
veterinary market, the Company's two principal national competitors include The
Butler Company and Burns Veterinary Supply. The Company also competes against a
number of regional and local medical and veterinary distributors, as well as, a
number of manufacturers that sell directly to physicians and veterinarians. With
regard to the Company's practice management software, the Company competes
against numerous other firms, including firms with substantial sales such as
InfoCure Corporation, which targets dental practices, and Idexx Laboratories,
Inc., which serves veterinary practices. The Company believes that it competes
in Canada substantially on the same basis as in the United States.

      The Company also faces intense competition internationally, where the
Company competes on the basis of price and customer service against several
large competitors, including ORBIS, Sirona Dental and the GACD Group, as well as
a large number of dental product distributors and manufacturers in Mexico, the
United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, the Republic of
Ireland, Austria, Spain, Portugal, Israel, Australia and New Zealand.




Governmental Regulation

      The Company's business is subject to requirements under various local,
state, Federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the
manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the
Federal laws with which the Company must comply are the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, and the Controlled
Substances Act. It is possible that the Company may be prevented from selling
manufactured products if the Company (including its 50%-owned affiliated
company, HS Pharmaceutical, which distributes and manufactures generic
pharmaceuticals) were to receive an adverse report following an inspection by
the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") or the Drug Enforcement
Administration, or if a competitor were to receive prior approval of new
products from the FDA. A violation of a law by HS Pharmaceutical could cause its
operations to be suspended. A suspension could have an adverse effect on the
Company's equity in earnings of affiliates and could cause the Company to seek
alternative sources of products manufactured by HS Pharmaceutical, possibly at
higher prices than currently paid by the Company. In response to a Warning
Letter from the FDA regarding its compliance with current Good Manufacturing
Practices (cGMP's) of its dental anesthetic products, HS Pharmaceutical
temporarily suspended the manufacture and shipment of these products to the
United States. In each of January and February 1999, HS Pharmaceutical
instituted a voluntary recall of approximately 240 batches, in the aggregate, of
dental anesthetic products sold in 1997 and 1998 under its name and certain
private labels. The Company's share of the net loss for 1999 of Henry Schein
Pharmaceutical was approximately $0.07 per share on a diluted basis. During the
fourth quarter of 1999, the FDA lifted its import ban and Henry Schein
Pharmaceutical resumed manufacturing and shipments of these products to the
United States.

      The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act generally regulates the
introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling,
marketing and distribution of, and recordkeeping for, pharmaceuticals and
medical devices shipped in interstate commerce. The Prescription Drug Marketing
Act of 1987, which amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, establishes
certain requirements applicable to the wholesale distribution of prescription
drugs, including the requirement that wholesale drug distributors be registered
with the Secretary of Health and Human Services or licensed by each state in
which they conduct business in accordance with federally established guidelines
on storage, handling and record maintenance. Under the Controlled Substances
Act, the Company, as a distributor of controlled substances, is required to
obtain annually a registration from the Attorney General in accordance with
specified rules and regulations and is subject to inspection by the Drug
Enforcement Administration acting on behalf of the Attorney General. The Company
is required to maintain licenses and permits for the distribution of
pharmaceutical products and medical devices under the laws of the states in
which it operates. In addition, the Company's dentist and physician customers
are subject to significant governmental regulation. There can be no assurance
that regulations that impact dentists' or physicians' practices will not have a
material adverse impact on the Company's business.

      The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all of the
foregoing laws and the regulations promulgated thereunder and possesses all
material permits and licenses required for the conduct of its business.

Proprietary Rights

      The Company holds trademarks relating to the "Henry Schein" name and logo,
as well, as certain other trademarks. Pursuant to certain agreements executed in
connection with a reorganization of the Company, both the Company and an
affiliated company, Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc., a company engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are
entitled to use the "Schein" name in connection with their respective
businesses, but Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. is not entitled to use the name
"Henry Schein". The Company intends to protect its trademarks to the fullest
extent practicable.




Employees

      As of December 25, 1999, the Company had over 6,500 full-time employees in
North America, Europe and Australia, including approximately 800 telesales
representatives, 1,150 field sales consultants, including equipment sales
specialists, 1,550 warehouse employees, 150 computer programmers and
technicians, 550 management employees and 2,300 office, clerical and
administrative employees. None of the Company's employees are represented by a
collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes that its relations with
its employees are excellent.

Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements

      The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe
harbor" for forward looking statements. Certain information in ITEMS 1, 2, 3, 7
and 8 of this Form 10-K include information that is forward looking, such as the
Company's opportunities to increase sales through, among other things,
acquisitions; its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies; its
anticipated liquidity and capital requirements; competitive product and pricing
pressures and the ability to gain or maintain share of sales in global markets
as a result of actions by competitors; and the results of legal proceedings. The
matters referred to in forward looking statements could be affected by the risks
and uncertainties involved in the Company's business. These risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the effect of economic and market
conditions, the impact of the consolidation of healthcare practitioners, the
impact of healthcare reform, opportunities for acquisitions and the Company's
ability to effectively integrate acquired companies, the acceptance and quality
of software products, acceptance and ability to manage operations in foreign
markets, the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and
relationships, possible disruptions in the Company's computer systems or
telephone systems, possible increases in shipping rates or interruptions in
shipping service, the level and volatility of interest rates and currency
values, economic and political conditions in international markets, including
civil unrest, government changes and restriction on the ability to transfer
capital across borders, the impact of current or pending legislation, regulation
and changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements, environmental
laws in domestic and foreign jurisdictions, as well as certain other risks
described above in this ITEM under "Competition" and "Government Regulation",
and below in ITEM 3 in "Legal Proceedings" and in ITEM 7 in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".
Subsequent written and oral forward looking statements attributable to the
Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their
entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

      The Company's principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road,
Melville, New York 11747, and its telephone number is 631-843-5500. As used in
this Report, the term the "Company" refers to Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and its subsidiaries, 50%-owned companies and predecessor, unless
otherwise stated.




Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The following table sets forth certain information regarding the executive
officers of the Company.




      Stanley M. Bergman has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
President since 1989 and a director of the Company since 1982. Mr. Bergman held
the position of Executive Vice President of the Company and Schein
Pharmaceutical, Inc. from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and
Administration of the Company from 1980 to 1985. Mr. Bergman is a certified
public accountant.

      Gerald A. Benjamin has been Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative
Officer since February 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin
was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer Satisfaction since
1993, and has been a director of the Company since September 1994. Mr. Benjamin
was Vice President of Distribution Operations of the Company from 1990 to 1992
and Director of Materials Management of the Company from 1988 to 1990.

      James P. Breslawski has been Executive Vice President of the Company since
1990, with primary responsibility for the US Dental Group, and a director of the
Company since 1990. Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski held various positions
with the Company, including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance
and Administration and Controller. Mr. Breslawski is a certified public
accountant.

      Leonard A. David has been Vice President of Human  Resources and Special
Counsel  since  January  1995.  Mr.  David held the office of Vice  President,
General  Counsel and Secretary  from 1990 to 1995 and practiced  corporate and
business  law for eight  years  prior to joining the  Company.  Mr.  David has
been a director of the Company since September 1994.




      Diane Forrest has been Senior Vice President of Information Services and
Chief Information Officer since 1994. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Forrest
was employed by Tambrands Inc. as Vice President of Information Services from
1987 to 1994, KPMG Peat Marwick as Senior Manager in the management consulting
division from 1982 to 1987 and Nabisco Brands, Inc. as Corporate Manager of
Manufacturing Systems from 1978 to 1982.

      Larry M. Gibson joined the Company as President of the Practice Management
Technologies Group in February 1997, concurrent with the acquisition of Dentrix.
Before joining the Company, Mr. Gibson was founder, Chairman and CEO of Dentrix,
started in 1980. Prior to his employment with Dentrix, Mr. Gibson was employed
by Weidner Communication Systems from 1978.

      Michael Racioppi has been President of the Medical Group since February
2000 and Interim President since September 1999. Prior to holding his current
position, Mr. Racioppi was Vice President of the Company since 1994, with
primary responsibility for the Medical Division, the marketing and merchandising
groups. Mr. Racioppi served as Vice President and as Senior Director, Corporate
Merchandising from 1992 to 1994. Before joining the Company in 1992, Mr.
Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors Inc. as the Vice President of
Purchasing and Marketing.

      Mark E. Mlotek has been Senior Vice President of Corporate Business
Development Group since February 2000. Prior to holding his current position,
Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999,
and became a director of the Company in September 1995. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel
to the Company, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate
reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.

      Steven Paladino has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since February 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino
was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 1993
and has been a director of the Company since 1992. From 1990 to 1992, Mr.
Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as
Corporate Controller of the Company. Before joining the Company, Mr. Paladino
was employed as a public accountant for seven years and most recently was with
the international accounting firm of BDO Seidman, LLP. Mr. Paladino is a
certified public accountant.

      Michael Zack has been responsible for the International Group of the
Company since 1989. Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of
Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of International Operations from 1984 to 1989
and by Gruenenthal GmbH as Manager of International Subsidiaries from 1975 to
1984.




ITEM 2.  Properties

      The Company owns or leases the following properties:




      (1) The Company is subletting 66,500 square feet of this facility through
July 2007.

      These properties are primarily used in the Company's healthcare
distribution segment.

      The Company also leases distribution, office, showroom and sales space in
other locations in the United States, Canada, France, Germany, the Republic of
Ireland, The Netherlands, Spain, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Israel and the
United Kingdom. Two 50%-owned companies also lease space in the United States
and Canada.

      The Company believes that its properties are generally in good condition,
are well maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on the
Company's business. The Company has additional operating capacity at its listed
facilities.

ITEM 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The manufacture or distribution of certain products by the Company
involves a risk of product liability claims, and from time to time the Company
is named as a defendant in products liability cases as a result of its
distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. As of December 25,
1999, the Company was named a defendant in approximately fifty such cases. Of
these product liability claims, thirty-eight involve claims made by healthcare
workers who claim allergic reaction relating to exposure to latex gloves. In
each of these cases, the Company acted as a distributor of both brand name and
"Henry Schein" private brand latex gloves, which were manufactured by third
parties. To date, discovery in these cases has generally been limited to product
identification issues. The manufacturers in these cases have withheld
indemnification of the Company pending product identification; however, the
Company is taking steps to implead those manufacturers into each case in which
the Company is a defendant. The Company is also a named defendant in nine
lawsuits involving the sale of phentermine and fenfluramin. Plaintiffs in the
cases allege injuries from the combined use of the drugs known as "Phen/fen."
The Company expects to obtain indemnification from the manufacturers of these
products, although this is dependent upon the financial viability of the
manufacturer and insurer.

      In addition, the Company is subject to other claims, suits and complaints,
which arise in the course of the Company's business. In Texas District Court,
Travis County, the Company, and one of its subsidiaries, are defendants in a
matter entitled Shelly E. Stromboe & Jeanne N. Taylor, on Behalf of Themselves
and All Other Similarly Situated vs. Henry Schein, Inc., Easy Dental Systems,
Inc. and Dentisoft, Inc. Case No. 98-00886. This complaint alleges among other
things, negligence, breach of contract, fraud and violations of certain Texas
commercial statutes involving




the sale of certain practice management software products sold prior to 1998
under the Easy Dental name. In October 1999, the Court, on motion, certified
both a Windows Sub-Class and a DOS Sub-Class to proceed as a class action
pursuant to Tex. R.Civ. P.42. It is estimated that 5,000 Windows customers and
15,000 DOS customers could be covered by the judge's ruling. The Company has
filed an appeal of the Court's determination, during which time a trial on the
merits is stayed. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against this
claim, as well as all other claims, suits and complaints.

      The Company has various insurance policies, including product liability
insurance covering risks and in amounts it considers adequate. In many cases the
Company is provided indemnification by the manufacturer of the product. There
can be no assurance that the coverage maintained by the Company is sufficient to
cover all future claims or will be available in adequate amounts or at a
reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide adequate
protection for the Company. The Company intends to vigorously defend all such
claims, suits and complaints. In the opinion of the Company, all such pending
matters are covered by insurance or are of such kind, or involve such amounts,
as would not have a material adverse effect on the financial statements of the
Company if disposed of unfavorably.

ITEM 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.




PART II

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and
low reported sales prices of the Common Stock of the Company as reported on the
NASDAQ National Market System for each quarterly period in fiscal 1998 and 1999
and for the first quarter of fiscal 2000 through March 20, 2000.


                                                            High          Low
                                                            ----          ---

Fiscal 1998:
1st Quarter ............................................  $ 41.00      $ 29.25
2nd Quarter ............................................  $ 46.25      $ 37.00
3rd Quarter ............................................  $ 51.13      $ 31.00
4th Quarter ............................................  $ 40.38      $ 24.75

Fiscal 1999:
1st Quarter ............................................  $.46.88      $ 24.00
2nd Quarter ............................................  $ 35.00      $ 19.56
3rd Quarter ............................................  $ 32.13      $ 13.25
4th Quarter ............................................  $ 15.38      $ 10.38

Fiscal 2000:
1st Quarter (Through March 20, 2000) ...................  $ 18.81      $ 10.75


      The Company's Common Stock is quoted through the NASDAQ National Market
tier of the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol "HSIC". On March 20, 2000,
there were approximately 893 holders of record of the Common Stock. On March 20,
2000, the last reported sales price was $15.00.

Dividend Policy

      The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on its Common
Stock in the foreseeable future; it intends to retain its earnings to finance
the expansion of its business and for general corporate purposes. Any payment of
dividends will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will
depend upon the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of
indebtedness, contractual restrictions with respect to payment of dividends and
other factors. The Company's revolving credit agreement and the note issued in
connection with an acquisition in The Netherlands limit the distributions of
dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders.




ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

      The following selected financial data with respect to the Company's
financial position and its results of operations for each of the five years in
the period ended December 25, 1999 set forth below has been derived from the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The selected financial data
presented below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and related notes thereto in ITEM 8 and "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in ITEM 7. The
Selected Operating Data and Net Sales By Market Data presented below have not
been audited.










(1) Merger and integration costs consist primarily of investment banking, legal,
    accounting and advisory fees, compensation, write-off of duplicate
    management information systems, other assets and the impairment of goodwill
    arising from acquired businesses integrated into the Company's medical and
    dental businesses, as well as certain other integration costs incurred
    primarily in connection with the 1998 acquisition of Meer and the 1997
    acquisitions of Sullivan, MBMI and Dentrix, which were accounted for under
    the pooling of interests method of accounting. See "Management's Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Acquisition
    and Joint Ventures Strategies" in ITEM 7 and the Consolidated Financial
    Statements and related notes thereto in ITEM 8.

(2) Includes: non-cash special management compensation charges of $17.5 million
    arising from final mark-to-market adjustments (reflecting an increase in
    estimated market value from 1994 to the initial public offering price of
    $16.00 per share) for stock grants made to an executive officer of the
    Company in 1992 and other stock issuances made to certain other senior
    management of the Company (because of certain repurchase features which
    expired with the initial public offering), an approximate $2.8 million
    non-cash special management compensation charge (also based on the initial
    public offering price of $16.00 per share) relating to compensatory options
    granted in 1995, and a cash payment of $0.5 million for additional income
    taxes resulting from such stock issuances.

(3) Reflects the pro forma elimination of special charges incurred in 1995 for
    special management compensation of $20.8 million, arising from a
    reorganization, and the related tax effects of $1.2 million and provision
    for income taxes on previously untaxed earnings of Dentrix as an S
    Corporation of $1.2 million, and $0.5 million for 1996 and 1995,
    respectively, and provision for income tax (expense) recoveries on
    previously untaxed earnings of Meer as an S Corporation of $(0.6) million,
    $0.4 million, $1.5 million, and $0.3 million for 1998, 1997, 1996, and 1995,
    respectively, and the pro forma elimination of a net deferred tax asset
    arising from Meer's conversion from an S Corporation to a C Corporation of




    $2.0 million in 1998. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations--Acquisition and Joint Ventures
    Strategies" in ITEM 7 herein.

(4) Dental consists of the Company's dental business in the United States and
    Canada.

(5) International consists of the Company's business (primarily dental) outside
    the United States and Canada, primarily Europe and Australia.

(6) Technology consists of the Company's practice management software business
    and certain other value-added products and services.




ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

      The following discussion and analysis of the Company's consolidated
financial condition and consolidated results of operations should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto included herein.

Acquisition and Joint Venture Strategies

      The Company's results of operations in recent years have been
significantly impacted by strategies and transactions undertaken by the Company
to expand its business, both domestically and internationally, in part to
address significant changes in the healthcare industry, including potential
national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare,
consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing
arrangements.

      During the year ended December 25, 1999, the Company completed nine
acquisitions. The completed acquisitions included General Injectables and
Vaccines, Inc. ("GIV"), through the purchase of all of the outstanding common
stock of Biological & Popular Culture, Inc., and the international dental,
medical and veterinary healthcare distribution businesses of Heiland Holding
GmbH (the "Heiland Group"). GIV, which had 1998 net sales of approximately
$120.0 million, is a leading independent direct marketer of vaccines and other
injectable products to office-based practitioners in the United States. The
Heiland Group, the largest direct marketer of healthcare supplies to
office-based practitioners in Germany, had 1998 net sales of approximately
$130.0 million. The acquisition agreements for GIV and the Heiland Group provide
for additional consideration of up to $20.0 million per year through 2004, not
to exceed $75.0 million in total, and $3.9 million per year through 2001,
respectively, to be paid if certain sales and profitability targets are met. The
GIV acquisition agreement also provides for additional consideration of $5.4
million based upon sales of new products, as defined. The remaining seven
acquisitions had combined net sales of approximately $74.0 million for 1998. Six
of the acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting,
while the remaining acquisition was accounted for under the pooling of interests
method of accounting. Results of operations of the business acquisitions
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting have been included in the
consolidated financial statements commencing with the acquisition dates. The
total cash purchase price paid for the acquisitions accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting was approximately $137.2 million. The excess of
the acquisition costs over the fair value of identifiable assets will be
amortized on a straight-line basis over 30 years. The pooling transaction was
not material and has been included in the consolidated financial statements from
the beginning of the quarter in which the acquisition occurred. The Company
issued 189,833 shares of its Common Stock with an aggregate market value of $6.4
million in connection with the pooling transaction.

      During the year ended December 26, 1998, the Company completed five
acquisitions. The 1998 completed acquisitions included two dental supply
companies, the most significant of which was Meer, a leading full-service dental
distributor serving dentists, dental laboratories and institutions throughout
the United States, with 1997 annual net sales of approximately $180.0 million.
Combined, Meer and the other dental company had approximately $212.0 million in
aggregate net sales for 1997. The completed acquisitions also included two
medical supply companies with aggregate net sales for 1997 of approximately
$37.0 million, and one international dental distribution business with 1997 net
sales of approximately $16.0 million. Of the five completed acquisitions, four
(including Meer) were accounted for under the pooling of interests method, and
the remaining acquisition of a 50.1% interest was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. The financial statements were restated to give
retroactive effect to the Meer transaction, as the remaining three pooling
transactions were not material and have been included in the consolidated
financial statements from the beginning of the quarter in which the acquisitions
occurred. Results of operations of the business acquisition accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting have been included in the consolidated
financial statements commencing with the acquisition date.




      The Company issued 2,973,680 shares, 347,063 shares and 121,000 shares of
its Common Stock, with an aggregate value of approximately $151.1 million in
connection with three of the 1998 pooling transactions. Prior to its acquisition
by the Company, Meer elected to be treated as an S Corporation under the
Internal Revenue Code, and accordingly, was not subject to taxation at the
corporate level. Pro forma adjustments have been made to reflect a provision for
income taxes for each period presented and the elimination of a deferred tax
benefit arising from Meer's conversion from the S Corporation to a C
Corporation.

      Additionally, in connection with one of the 1998 dental supply company
acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting,
the Company issued shares of a subsidiary, with rights equivalent to those of
the Company's Common Stock, which are exchangeable into 603,500 shares of the
Company's Common Stock, at each shareholders' option, and had an aggregate value
of approximately $24.0 million. The total cash purchase price for the 1998
acquisition accounted for under the purchase method of accounting was
approximately $6.8 million. The excess of the acquisition costs over the fair
value of identifiable net assets acquired are being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 30 years.

      During the year ended December 27, 1997, the Company acquired in pooling
of interests transactions, all of the outstanding common stock of (i) Sullivan,
a distributor of consumable dental supplies and equipment, (ii) MBMI, a
distributor of medical supplies and (iii) Dentrix, a leading provider of
clinically-based dental practice management systems. Prior to its acquisition of
the company, Dentrix elected to be treated as an S Corporation under the
Internal Revenue Code, and accordingly, its earnings were not subject to
taxation at the corporate level. Pro forma adjustments have been made to reflect
a provision for income taxes on such previously untaxed earnings for each period
presented.

      In addition to these three acquisitions, the Company completed 21 other
acquisitions including; three medical and ten dental supply companies with
aggregate net sales for 1996 of approximately $32.0 million and $41.8 million,
respectively; two international dental and three international medical supply
companies with aggregate net sales for 1996 of approximately $5.3 million and
$18.3 million, respectively; two technology and other value-added product
companies with aggregate net sales for 1996 of approximately $10.1 million; and
certain assets and the business of IDE Interstate, Inc., a direct marketer of
healthcare products to dentists, doctors and veterinarians with net sales for
1996 of approximately $50.0 million.

      Of the twenty four 1997 completed acquisitions, six were accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting, with the remainder being
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting (fifteen for 100%
ownership interests and three for majority ownership interests). The financial
statements were restated to give retroactive effect to three of the pooling
transactions (Sullivan, MBMI and Dentrix) as the remaining three pooling
transactions were not material and were included in the consolidated financial
statements from the beginning of the quarter in which the acquisitions occurred.
Operations of the 1997 completed acquisitions, accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting, were included in the consolidated financial statements
from their respective acquisition dates.

      In connection with the 1999, 1998 and 1997 acquisitions, the Company
incurred certain merger and integration costs of approximately $13.5 million,
$56.7 million and $50.8 million, respectively. Net of taxes, merger and
integration costs were approximately $0.23, $1.06 and $1.08 per share, on a
diluted basis, respectively. Merger and integration costs for the healthcare
distribution and technology segments were $13.5 million and $0.0 million for
1999, $55.7 million and $1.0 million for 1998 and $43.9 million and $6.9 million
for 1997, respectively. Merger and integration costs consist primarily of
investment banking, legal, accounting and advisory fees, compensation,
impairment of goodwill arising from acquired businesses integrated into the
Company's medical and dental businesses, as well as certain other integration
costs associated with these mergers.




      Excluding the merger and integration costs, and including pro forma
adjustments, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per common share, on
a diluted basis, would have been $59.8 million and $1.44, respectively, for the
year ended December 25, 1999, $57.8 million and $1.39, respectively, for the
year ended December 26, 1998, and $41.0 million and $1.03, respectively, for the
year ended December 27, 1997.

      The Company is a party to a number of claims, suits and complaints arising
in the ordinary course of business, as described in "Legal Proceedings". In the
opinion of the Company, all such pending matters are covered by insurance or are
of such kind, or involve such amounts, as would not have a material adverse
effect on the financial statements of the Company if disposed of unfavorably.

Results of Operations

      The following table sets forth for the periods indicated net sales, gross
profit and operating profit, excluding merger and integration costs, (IN
THOUSANDS) by business segment for the years ended 1999, 1998 and 1997.





- --------------

(1) Dental consists of the Company's dental business in the United States and
    Canada.

(2) International consists of the Company's business (primarily dental) outside
    the United States and Canada, primarily in Europe, and Australia.

(3) Technology consists of the Company's practice management software business
    and certain other value-added products and services.

(4) Excludes merger and integration costs of $13.5 million, $55.7 million and
    $43.9 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

(5) Excludes merger and integration costs of $1.0 million and $6.9 million in
    1998 and 1997, respectively.




1999 Compared to 1998

      Net sales increased $364.0 million, or 18.9%, to $2,285.7 million in 1999
from $1,921.7 million in 1998. Of the $364.0 million increase, approximately
$339.8 million, or 93.4%, represented an 18.1% increase in the Company's
healthcare distribution business. As part of this increase, approximately $197.0
million represented a 38.2% increase in its medical business, $173.2 million
represented a 75.0% increase in its international business, $4.0 million
represented a 8.2% increase in the Company's veterinary business, and $(34.4)
million represented a 3.2% decrease in the Company's dental business. The
increase in medical net sales is primarily attributable to telesales and direct
marketing activities, acquisitions, and increased sales to hospitals. In the
international market, the increase in net sales was primarily due to
acquisitions in Germany and the United Kingdom, and increased account
penetration in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Spain and France. In the veterinary
market, the increase in net sales was primarily due to increased account
penetration. The decrease in dental net sales was primarily due to sales erosion
related to the Meer acquisition and a reduction in dental equipment sales. The
remaining increase in 1999 net sales was due to the technology business, which
increased $24.2 million, or 56.8%, to $66.9 million for 1999, from $42.7 million
for 1998. The increase in technology and value-added product sales was primarily
due to increased practice management software sales and an acquisition.

      Gross profit increased by $96.6 million, or 16.1%, to $698.4 million in
1999, from $601.8 million in 1998. Gross profit margin for healthcare
distribution decreased by 0.7% to 30.6% from 31.3% last year. Healthcare
distribution gross profit increased by $84.6 million, or 14.9%, to $652.7
million in 1999, from $568.1 million in 1998. Gross profit margin decreased by
0.8%, to 29.4%, from 30.2% last year primarily due to sales mix and lower
manufacturers rebates as a result of reduced annual sales. Technology gross
profit increased by $11.9 million, or 35.2%, to $45.7 million in 1999, from
$33.8 million in 1998. Technology gross profit margin decreased by 10.8% to
68.3% from 79.1% last year primarily due to changes in sales mix.

      Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $73.5 million,
or 14.5%, to $579.1 million in 1999 from $505.6 million in 1998. Selling and
shipping expenses increased by $42.2 million, or 12.1%, to $390.6 million in
1999 from $348.4 million in 1998. As a percentage of net sales, selling and
shipping expenses decreased 1.0% to 17.1% in 1999 from 18.1% in 1998. This
decrease was primarily due to improvement in the Company's distribution
efficiencies resulting from the leveraging of the Company's distribution
infrastructure. General and administrative expenses increased $31.3 million, or
19.9%, to $188.5 million in 1999 from $157.2 million in 1998, primarily as a
result of acquisitions. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative
expenses remained constant at 8.2% in 1999 and 1998.

      Other income (expense) - net changed by $12.5 million, to $(16.0) million
for the year ended December 25, 1999 from $(3.5) million for 1998 due to an
increase in interest expense resulting from an increase in average borrowings
and to a lesser extent an increase in interest rates, offset by higher interest
income on notes receivable and accounts receivable balances.

      Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates decreased $3.0 million or 375%,
to $(2.2) million in 1999 from $0.8 million in 1998. The decline was due to
reduced earnings from an affiliate totaling approximately $1.3 million, net of
taxes, due to a temporary cessation of production of anesthetic products
produced by HS Pharmaceutical. HS Pharmaceutical is an affiliated company, which
is accounted for under the equity method. On September 23, 1999, the FDA issued
clearance to HS Pharmaceutical to resume production of its anesthetic products
for shipment into the United States. HS Pharmaceutical resumed limited
production and shipment of its products in the fourth quarter of 1999.

      For 1999, the Company's effective tax rate was 39.6%. Excluding merger and
integration costs, the majority of which are not deductible for income tax
purposes, the Company's effective tax rate would




have been 38.3%. The difference between the Company's effective tax rate,
excluding merger and integration costs, and the Federal statutory rate relates
primarily to state income taxes.

      For 1998 the Company's effective tax rate was 56.4%. Excluding merger and
integration costs, the majority of which are not deductible for income tax
purposes, and including a proforma tax adjustment for Meer on previously untaxed
earnings as an S Corporation, combined with the elimination of a net deferred
tax asset arising from Meer's conversion from an S Corporation to a C
Corporation, the Company's effective tax rate would have been 38.3%. The
difference between the Company's effective tax rate, excluding merger and
integration costs and the Meer tax adjustment, and the Federal statutory rate
relates primarily to state income taxes.

1998 Compared to 1997

      Net sales increased $223.2 million, or 13.1%, to $1,921.7 million in 1998
from $1,698.5 million in 1997. Of the $223.2 million increase, approximately
$216.5 million or 97.8% represented a 13.0% increase in the Company's healthcare
distribution business. As part of this increase, approximately $84.5 million
represented a 8.5% increase in the Company's dental business, $74.7 million
represented a 16.9% increase in its medical business, $49.8 million represented
a 27.5% increase in its international business and $7.5 million represented a
18.3% increase in the Company's veterinary business. The increase in dental net
sales was primarily the result of the continuing favorable impact of the
Company's integrated sales and marketing approach (which coordinates the efforts
of its field sales consultants with its direct marketing and telesales
personnel), continued success in the Company's target marketing programs and
purchase acquisitions, offset in part by a reduction in dental equipment sales
resulting from the Company's disposal of its equipment manufacturing subsidiary,
Marus Dental International ("Marus"), in August 1998 and estimated sales erosion
on the Meer acquisition. The increase in medical net sales is primarily
attributable to sales to hospitals, acquisitions and the benefits of a new
telesales structure, partially offset by a decline in sales to renal dialysis
centers. In the first quarter of 1998 the Company's largest renal dialysis
customer, Renal Treatment Centers, Inc. ("RTC"), was acquired by Total Renal
Care, Inc. which is not a customer of the Company. In March of 1998, RTC stopped
purchasing Epogen from the Company, but continues to purchase other products.
During fiscal year 1997, the Company's sales of Epogen to RTC amounted to $38.7
million. In the international market, the increase in net sales was due to
increased account penetration in France, the United Kingdom and Spain and
acquisitions, primarily in Germany, the United Kingdom and The Netherlands. In
the veterinary market, the increase in net sales was primarily due to increased
account penetration with core accounts and veterinary groups. Excluding net
sales of Marus and RTC in both periods, as well as the estimated sales erosion
on the Meer acquisition, healthcare distribution net sales would have grown by
16.1% in 1998 over 1997. The remaining increase in 1998 net sales was due to the
technology business, which increased $6.7 million or 18.7% to $42.7 million for
1998, from $35.9 million for 1997. The increase in technology and value-added
product sales was primarily due to increased practice management software sales.



      Gross profit increased by $91.4 million, or 17.9%, to $601.8 million in
1998, from $510.4 million in 1997. Gross profit margin increased by 1.2% to
31.3% from 30.1% last year. Healthcare distribution gross profit increased by
$83.4 million or 17.2% to $568.1 million in 1998, from $484.7 million in 1997.
Healthcare distribution gross profit margin increased by 1.0% to 30.2% from
29.2% last year primarily due to sales mix. Technology gross profit increased by
$8.1 million or 31.5% to, $33.8 million in 1998, from $25.7 million in 1997.
Technology gross profit margin increased by 7.6% to 79.1% from 71.5% last year
primarily due to increased sales volume of software systems.

      Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $57.8 million,
or 12.9%, to $505.6 million in 1998 from $447.8 million in 1997. Selling and
shipping expenses increased by $37.1 million, or 11.9%, to $348.4 million in
1998 from $311.3 million in 1997. As a percentage of net sales, selling and
shipping expenses decreased 0.2% to 18.1% in 1998 from 18.3% in 1997. This
decrease was primarily due to leveraging of the Company's distribution
infrastructure. General and administrative expenses increased $20.7 million, or
15.2%, to $157.2 million in 1998 from $136.5 million in 1997, primarily as a
result of acquisitions. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative
expenses increased 0.2% in 1998, to 8.2% from 8.0% in 1997.

      Other income (expense) - net decreased by $4.6 million, to $(3.5) million
for the year ended December 26, 1998 from $1.1 million for 1997 due to an
increase in interest expense resulting from an increase in average borrowings
and lower imputed interest income on long term accounts receivable balances.

      Equity in earnings of affiliates decreased $1.3 million or 61.9% to $0.8
million in 1998 from $2.1 million in 1997. The decline is the result of the
reduced earnings in the fourth quarter of an affiliate due to a voluntary recall
of anesthetic products produced by Novocol.




      For 1998, the Company's effective tax rate was 56.4%. Excluding merger and
integration costs, the majority of which are not deductible for income tax
purposes, and including a proforma tax adjustment for Meer on previously untaxed
earnings as an S Corporation, combined with the elimination of a net deferred
tax asset arising from Meer's conversion from an S Corporation to a C
Corporation, the Company's effective tax rate would have been 38.3%. The
difference between the Company's effective tax rate, excluding merger and
integration costs and the Meer tax adjustment, and the Federal statutory rate
relates primarily to state income taxes.

      For, 1997 the Company's effective tax rate was 136.8%. On a pro forma
basis, adjusting for assumed tax benefits arising from the losses of Meer as an
S Corporation, and excluding merger and integration costs, the majority of which
are not deductible for income tax purposes, the Company's effective tax rate
would have been 39.7%. The difference between the effective tax rate (excluding
merger and integration costs) and the Federal statutory rate relates primarily
to state income taxes.

Year 2000

      During the fourth quarter of 1999 the Company completed its company-wide
program to prepare its computer systems, applications and software products for
the year 2000. The cost of this program was approximately $2.5 million, with
approximately $1.7 million representing incremental costs to the Company.
Subsequent to December 31, 1999, the Company has not experienced any year 2000
problems either internally or from suppliers or other outside sources that had
an adverse impact on the Company's operations or financial condition. The
Company has no reason to believe that year 2000 failures will materially affect
it in the future. However, since it may take several additional months before it
is known whether the Company or suppliers, vendors or customers may have
undergone year 2000 problems, no assurances can be given that the Company will
not experience losses or disruptions due to year 2000 computer-related problems.
The Company will continue to monitor the operation of its software products,
computers and microprocessor-based devices for any year 2000 problems.

Euro Conversion

      Effective January 1, 1999, 11 of the 15 member countries of the European
Union have adopted the Euro as their common legal currency. On that date, the
participating countries established fixed Euro conversion rates between their
existing sovereign currencies and the Euro. The Euro now trades on currency
exchanges and is available for non-cash transactions. The participating
countries now issue sovereign debt exclusively in Euros, and have re-denominated
outstanding sovereign debt. The authority to direct monetary policy for the
participating coutnries, including money supply and official interest rates for
the Euro, is now exercised by the new European Central Bank.

      In 1998, the Company established a Euro Task Force to address its
information system, product and customer concerns. The Company expects to
achieve timely Euro information system and product readiness, so as to conduct
transactions in the Euro, in accordance with implementation schedules as they
are established by the European Commission. The Company does not anticipate that
the costs of the overall effort will have a material adverse impact on future
results.

Inflation

      Management does not believe inflation had a material adverse effect on the
financial statements for the periods presented.

Effect of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ("FAS 133"), "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". In May 1999, the FASB voted to
delay the effective date of FAS 133 by one year. The Company will be required to
adopt FAS 133 for transactions entered into for quarters in the fiscal year
beginning after December 30, 2000. FAS 133 requires that all derivative
instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair
value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of
the hedge transaction and the type of hedge transaction. The ineffective portion
of all hedges will be recognized in earnings. The Company is in the process of
determining the impact that the adoption of FAS 133 will have on its results of
operations and financial position.

Risk Management

      The Company has operations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the
United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, France, the Republic of
Ireland, Austria, Spain, Israel, Australia and New Zealand. Substantially all of
the Company's operations endeavor to protect margins by using foreign currency
forward contracts to hedge the estimated foreign currency payments to foreign
vendors. The total U.S. dollar equivalent of all foreign currency forward
contracts hedging debt and the purchase and sale of merchandise was $10.8
million as of the 1999 fiscal year end.




      The Company considers its investment in foreign operations to be both
long-term and strategic. As a result, the Company does not hedge the long-term
translation exposure to its balance sheet. The Company has experienced negative
translation adjustments of approximately $8.3 million and $0.4 million in 1999
and 1998, respectively, which adjustments were reflected in the balance sheet as
an adjustment to stockholders' equity. The cumulative translation adjustment at
the end of 1999 showed a net negative translation adjustment of $10.4 million.

      The Company has a Canadian subsidiary which purchases in U.S. dollars,
some of the products it sells locally in Canadian dollars. In order to minimize
its exposure to fluctuations in U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rates, the
Company, in November and December 1999, entered into foreign currency forward
contracts with major international banks to fix the exchange rate at which it
buys some of its year 2000 U.S. dollar denominated products. Under these
agreements, the Company has obligations to buy approximately $4.0 million U.S.
dollars at predetermined fixed rates. The Company anticipates entering into new
such contracts in the normal course of business.

      In October 1997, the Company entered into a Netherlands Guilder (NLG) loan
in the amount of 6.5 million NLG. The loan serves to hedge the repayment of an
intercompany loan in the same amount, denominated in NLG, due from a Dutch
subsidiary. The NLG loan calls for periodic payments and a balloon payment of
4.1 million NLG in January 2002.

      The Company had entered into two interest rate swaps with major financial
institutions to exchange variable rate interest for fixed rate interest. The net
result was to substitute a weighted average fixed interest rate of 7.21% for the
variable LIBOR rate on $13.0 million of the Company's debt. The interest rate
swaps expire in December 2003 and November 2004.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

      The Company's principal capital requirements have been to fund (a)
repayments on bank borrowings, (b) acquisitions, (c) capital expenditures, and
(d) working capital needs resulting from increased sales, special inventory
forward buy-in opportunities and to fund initial start-up inventory requirements
for new distribution centers. Since sales have been strongest during the fourth
quarter and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities are most prevalent
just before the end of the year, the Company's working capital requirements have
been generally higher from the end of the third quarter to the end of the first
quarter of the following year. The Company has financed its business primarily
through its revolving credit facilities, private placement loans and stock
issuances.

      Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 25,
1999 of $48.0 million resulted primarily from net income of $50.3 million,
increased by non-cash charges relating primarily to depreciation and
amortization of $28.3 million, offset by a net use of working capital of $36.8
million. The use of working capital was primarily due to a decrease in accounts
payable and other accrued expenses of $33.4 million, and an $22.3 million
increase in accounts receivable resulting primarily from increased net sales and
a decrease in the percentage of customers who make payment with their orders,
offset in part by an $12.1 million decrease in inventories, and a $6.8 million
decrease in other current assets. The Company anticipates future uses of working
capital as a result of its continued sales growth, and special inventory forward
buy-in opportunities.

      Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 25, 1999
of $164.1 million resulted primarily from cash used to make acquisitions of
$132.6 million and capital expenditures of $34.5 million. During the past three
years, the Company has invested $89.9 million in the development of new computer
systems, and expenditures for new and existing operating facilities. In the
coming year, the




Company expects to invest in excess of $25.0 million per year in capital
projects to modernize and expand its facilities and infrastructure systems and
integrate operations.

      Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 25,
1999 of $121.9 million resulted primarily from cash proceeds from borrowings and
issuance of stock of approximately $283.6 million offset primarily by debt
repayments of approximately $161.7 million.

      Certain holders of minority interests in acquired entities or ventures
have the right at certain times to require the Company to acquire their interest
at either fair market value or a formula price based on earnings of the entity.

      The Company's cash and cash equivalents as of December 25, 1999 of $26.0
million consist of bank balances and investments in commercial paper rated AAA
by Moody's (or an equivalent rating). These investments have staggered maturity
dates, none of which exceed three months, and have a high degree of liquidity
since the securities are actively traded in public markets.

      The Company entered into an amended revolving credit facility on August
15, 1997 that increased its main credit facility to $150.0 million and extended
the facility termination date to August 15, 2002. Borrowings under the credit
facility were $53.7 million at December 25, 1999. The Company also has one
uncommitted bank line totaling $15.0 million, none of which had been borrowed at
December 25, 1999. On June 30, 1999 and September 25, 1998, the Company
completed private placement transactions under which it issued $130.0 million
and $100.0 million, respectively, in Senior Notes, the proceeds of which were
used respectively, for the permanent financing of its acquisitions of GIV
and Heiland, as well as repaying and retiring a portion of four uncommitted bank
lines and to pay down amounts owed under its revolving credit facility. The
$130.0 million notes come due on June 30, 2009 and bear interest at a rate of
6.94% per annum. Principal payments totaling $20.0 million are due annually
starting September 25, 2006 for the $100.0 million notes and bear interest at a
rate of 6.66% per annum. Interest is payable semi-annually. Certain of the
Company's subsidiaries have credit facilities that totaled $53.2 million at
December 25, 1999 under which $41.5 million had been borrowed.

      The aggregate purchase price of the acquisitions completed during 1999,
including the acquisition of the minority interests of two subsidiaries, was
approximately $139.0 million, payable $132.6 million in cash and $6.4 million in
stock. The acquisitions of GIV and the Heiland Group were funded by the
Company's revolving credit agreement and various short-term borrowings entered
into in January 1999. Existing borrowing lines primarily funded the remaining
cash portion of the purchases.

      The Company believes that its cash and cash equivalents of $26.0 million
as of December 25, 1999, its ability to access public and private debt and
equity markets, and the availability of funds under its existing credit
agreements will provide it with sufficient liquidity to meet its currently
foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs.

ITEM 7A. Market Risks

      The Company is exposed to market risks, which include changes in U.S. and
international interest rates as well as changes in foreign currency exchange
rates as measured against the U.S. dollar and each other. The Company attempts
to reduce these risks by utilizing financial instruments, pursuant to Company
policies.

      The value of the U.S. dollar affects the Company's financial results.
Changes in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect the Company's
revenues (as expressed in U.S. dollars), gross margins, operating expenses, and
retained earnings. Where the Company deems it prudent, it engages in hedging
programs aimed at limiting in part the impact of currency fluctuations. Using
primarily forward exchange




contracts, the Company hedges those transactions that, when remeasured according
to generally accepted accounting principles, impact the income statement. From
time to time, the Company purchases short-term forward exchange contracts to
protect against currency exchange risks associated with the anticipated revenue
of the Company's international subsidiaries. As of December 25, 1999, the
Company has outstanding foreign currency forward contracts aggregating $10.8
million related to debt and the purchase and sale of merchandise. The contracts
hedge against currency fluctuations of Deutsche Mark ($0.8 million), British
Pounds ($8.2 million), Swiss Francs ($0.5 million) and Australian dollars ($1.3
million). At December 25, 1999, the Company had net deferred losses from foreign
currency forward contracts of $0.3 million. The contracts expire at various
dates through February 2001.

      These hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency
exchange risks. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of the Company's
programs include volatility of the currency markets, and availability of hedging
instruments. All currency contracts that are entered into by the Company are
components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of
hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure, not for speculation.
Although the Company maintains these programs to reduce the impact of changes in
currency exchange rates, when the U. S. dollar sustains a strengthening position
against currencies in which the Company sells products and services or a
weakening exchange rate against currencies in which the Company incurs costs,
the Company's revenues or costs are adversely affected.

      As of December 25, 1999, the Company had $13.0 million outstanding in
interest rate swaps. These swaps are used to convert floating rate debt relating
to the Company's revolving credit agreement, to fixed rate debt to reduce the
Company's exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The net result was to
substitute a weighted averaged fixed interest rate of 7.2% for the variable
LIBOR rate on $13.0 million of the Company's debt. The swaps expire in December
2003 and December 2004. Under the interest rate environment during the year
ended December 25, 1999, the net fair value of the Company's interest rate swap
agreements resulted in a recognized loss of approximately $0.3 million.



ITEM  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES




   All other schedules are omitted because the required information is either
  inapplicable or is included in the consolidated financial statements or the
  notes thereto.




              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

Henry Schein, Inc.
Melville, New York

      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Henry
Schein, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998, and
the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 25, 1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Henry
Schein, Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998, and
the results of their operations and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 25, 1999 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

                                                        BDO SEIDMAN, LLP


New York, New York
February 25, 2000




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (In thousands, except share data)




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                      (In thousands, except per share data)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (In thousands, except share data)



         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)



         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 1-Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Henry
Schein, Inc. and all of its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries (the
"Company"). Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which are greater than 20%
and less than or equal to 50% owned, are accounted for under the equity method.
All material intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in
consolidation.

Use of Estimates

      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Fiscal Year

      The Company reports its operations on a 52-53 week basis ending on the
last Saturday of December. Fiscal years ended December 25, 1999, December 26,
1998 and December 27, 1997 all consisted of 52 weeks.

Revenue Recognition

      Sales are recorded when products are shipped or services are rendered
except for revenues derived from post contract customer support for practice
management software which is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in
which the support is to be provided.

Inventories

      Inventories consist substantially of finished goods and are valued at the
lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out ("FIFO")
method.

Property and Equipment and Depreciation and Amortization

      Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed
primarily under the straight-line method over the following estimated useful
lives:


                                                             Years
                                                           ---------
   Buildings and improvements .....................            40
   Machinery and warehouse equipment ..............          5-10
   Furniture, fixtures and other ..................          3-10
   Computer equipment and software ................           5-8


      Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line
method over the lesser of the useful life of the assets or the lease term.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 1-Significant Accounting Policies-(Continued)

Taxes on Income

      The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability
approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in
the Company's financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax
consequences, the Company generally considers all expected future events other
than enactments of changes in tax laws or rates. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates will be recognized as income or
expense in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company files a
consolidated Federal income tax return with its 80% or greater owned
subsidiaries.

Statement of Cash Flows

      For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers all
highly liquid debt instruments and other short-term investments with an initial
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company has
determined that the effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash flows were
not material for the years ended December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions

      The financial position and results of operations of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries are determined using local currency as the functional currency.
Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate
in effect at each year-end. Income statement accounts are translated at the
average rate of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments
arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are
included in the accumulated comprehensive loss account in stockholders' equity.
Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in
earnings, except for certain hedging transactions (see below).

Financial Instruments

      The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm
commitments denominated in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on these
positions are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction when it is
completed.

      In order to manage interest rate exposure, the Company has entered into
interest rate swap agreements to exchange variable rate debt into fixed rate
debt without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts. Net payments or
receipts under the agreements are recorded as adjustments to interest expense.

      The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash
and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued
liabilities approximate fair value because of the immediate or short-term
maturity of these financial instruments. The carrying amount reported for
long-term debt approximates fair value because certain of the underlying
instruments are at variable rates, which are repriced frequently. The remaining
portion of long-term debt approximates fair value because the interest
approximates current market rates for financial instruments with similar
maturities and terms.






                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 1-Significant Accounting Policies--(Continued)


Acquisitions

      The net assets of businesses purchased are recorded at their fair value at
the acquisition date and the consolidated financial statements include their
operations from that date. Any excess of acquisition costs over the fair value
of identifiable net assets acquired is included in goodwill and is amortized on
a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 30 years. Certain acquisitions
provide for contingent consideration, primarily cash, to be paid in the event
certain financial performance targets are satisfied over periods typically not
exceeding three years from the date of acquisition. The Company's policy is to
record a liability for such amounts when it becomes probable that targets will
be met.

Long-Lived Assets

      Long-lived assets, such as goodwill and property and equipment, are
evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated
undiscounted future cash flows from the use of these assets. When any such
impairment exists, the related assets will be written down to fair value. In
connection with certain acquisitions, the Company has determined that certain
long-lived assets have been impaired (see Note 6).

Stock-Based Compensation

      The Company accounts for its stock option awards under the intrinsic value
based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." Under the intrinsic value based
method, compensation cost is the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of
the stock at grant date or other measurement date over the amount an employee
must pay to acquire the stock. The Company makes pro forma disclosures of net
income and earnings per share as if the fair value based method of accounting
had been applied as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 123 ("FAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."

Earnings Per Share

      Basic earnings per share includes no dilution and is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Diluted earnings per share reflect, in periods in which they have a
dilutive effect, the effect of common shares issuable upon exercise of stock
options.

Comprehensive Income

      Comprehensive income refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that
under generally accepted accounting principles are excluded from net income as
these amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders' equity.
The Company's comprehensive income is comprised of foreign currency translation
adjustments.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


New Accounting Pronouncements


Note 1-Significant Accounting Policies--(Continued)

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ("FAS 133"), "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". In May 1999, the FASB voted to
delay the effective date of FAS 133 by one year. The Company will be required to
adopt FAS 133 for transactions entered into for quarters in the fiscal year
beginning after December 30, 2000. FAS 133 requires that all derivative
instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair
value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of
the hedge transaction and the type of hedge transaction. The ineffective portion
of all hedges will be recognized in earnings. The Company is in the process of
determining the impact that the adoption of FAS 133 will have on its results of
operations and financial position.

Note 2-Earnings Per Share

      A reconciliation of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings
per share follows (in thousands):




      Options to purchase approximately 2,485,000, 772,000 and 4,135,000 shares
of common stock at prices ranging from $24.56 to $46.00, $39.88 to $46.00 and
$4.21 to $36.18 per share were outstanding during portions of 1999, 1998, and
1997, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share for each of the respective years because they were anti-dilutive.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 3-Property and Equipment Net

      Major classes of property and equipment consist of the following:




      Equipment held under capital leases amounted to approximately $2,541 and
$1,195 as of December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998 (See Note 13(b)).

Note 4-Goodwill and Other Intangibles, Net

      Goodwill and other intangibles consist of the following:




      Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquisitions over
the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. During 1999, the increase in
goodwill was primarily due to eight acquisitions, including the purchase of six
companies which totaled approximately $149,166 which included $38,972 of
acquired goodwill, the minority interests of two subsidiaries, which totaled
approximately $1,272 and additional purchase price consideration of
approximately $7,939 for one current year and five prior year acquisitions.
Other intangibles include covenants not to compete, computer programming costs,
customer lists and deferred acquisition costs. In connection with certain
acquisitions, the Company has determined that the goodwill of certain
acquisitions was impaired in 1998 (see Note 6).




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 5-Investments and Other

       Investments and other consist of:




   The Company's investments are predominately 50% owned unconsolidated
affiliates consisting of various companies involved in the healthcare
distribution business and HS Pharmaceutical, Inc., which manufactures and
distributes generic pharmaceuticals. As of December 25, 1999, the Company's
investments in unconsolidated affiliates were $3,246 more than the Company's
proportionate share of the underlying equity of these affiliates. This amount,
which has been treated as goodwill, is being amortized over 30 years and charged
to equity in the operating results of these companies. As of December 25, 1999,
approximately $7,364 of the Company's retained earnings represented
undistributed earnings of affiliates. Combined financial data for substantially
all of these companies are as follows:









                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 6-Business Acquisitions

      The Company has completed the acquisition of 38 healthcare distribution
and technology businesses between 1997 and 1999, the most significant of which
were; (i) in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting
during 1999; General Injectables and Vaccines, Inc. ("GIV") through the purchase
of all of the outstanding common stock of Biological Popular Culture, Inc., a
leading independent direct marketer of vaccines and other injectables to office
based practitioners throughout the United States; and the Heiland Group GmbH
("Heiland"), the largest direct marketer of healthcare supplies to the medical,
dental, and veterinarian office-based practitioners, in Germany; and (ii) in
transactions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting
during 1998 and 1997, respectively; the H. Meer Dental Supply Co., Inc, ("Meer")
a distributor of consumable dental supplies and equipment with sales and service
centers located throughout the United States; Sullivan Dental Products, Inc.
("Sullivan"), distributor of consumable dental supplies and dental equipment
with 52 sales and service centers located throughout the United States; Micro
Bio-Medics, Inc. ("MBMI"), a distributor of medical supplies to physicians and
hospitals as well as to other healthcare professionals nationwide; and Dentrix
Dental Systems, Inc. ("Dentrix"), a leading provider of clinically-based dental
practice management systems.

      GIV and Heiland had 1998 net sales of approximately $120,000 and $130,000,
respectively. The purchase price and resultant goodwill, which is being
amortized over 20 years, for these acquisitions was approximately $65,000 and
$47,400, and $60,400 and $55,800, respectively (see Note 8(a)). The acquisition
agreements for GIV and Heiland provide for additional consideration of up to
$20,000 per year through 2004, not to exceed $75,000 in total, and $3,900 per
year through 2001, respectively, to be paid if certain sales and profitability
targets are met. The GIV acquisition agreement also provides for additional
consideration of $5,400 based upon sales of new products, as defined.

      Pursuant to the respective merger agreements for Meer, Sullivan, MBM and
Dentrix, which were completed on August 14, 1998, November 12, 1997, August 1,
1997 and February 28, 1997, the Company issued approximately 2,974,000,
7,594,900, 3,231,400 and 1,070,000 shares of its Common Stock with aggregate
market values (on their respective closing dates) of approximately $132,700,
$266,800, $122,800 and $29,400, respectively, and assumed and exchanged all
options to purchase Sullivan and MBMI stock for options to purchase 1,192,000
and 1,117,000, respectively, of the Company's Common Stock. Prior to its
acquisition by the Company, Meer elected to be taxed as an S Corporation under
the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, the current taxable income or loss of
Meer was attributable to its shareholders. Since its acquisition, Meer has been
taxed as a regular corporation. For the years ended December 26, 1998 and
December 27, 1997, pro forma adjustments have been made to the restated
statements of operations to reflect the income tax provisions and recoveries
that would have been provided for had Meer been subject to income taxes in prior
years.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 6-Business Acquisitions--(Continued)

      Additionally, during 1999, the Company acquired six other companies, which
had total sales in 1998 of approximately $74,000, that were accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting. The total purchase price of the six companies
acquired was approximately, $11,800 and the resulting goodwill of $8,266 is
being amortized over 30 years. The Company also acquired one company which is
being accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting which
was not material. In connection with this acquisition, the Company issued
189,833 shares of its Common Stock with an aggregate market value of $6.4
million.

      During 1998, the Company acquired four other businesses, with aggregate
net sales for 1997 of approximately $85,000, three of which were accounted for
under the pooling of interests method of accounting, with the remaining
acquisition of a 50.1% ownership interest being accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The total amount of cash paid (for the purchased
businesses) and the value of the Company's Common Stock issued in connection
with three of these acquisitions was approximately $6,800 and approximately
$18,400, respectively. In connection with one of the acquisitions, the Company
issued shares of a subsidiary, with rights equivalent to those of the Company's
Common Stock, which are exchangeable into 603,500 shares of the Company's Common
Stock, at each shareholders' option, and had an aggregate value of approximately
$24,000.

      During 1997, the Company acquired 21 other businesses, three of which were
accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting, with the
remainder being accounted for under the purchase method of accounting (15 for
100% ownership interests and three for majority ownership interests). The total
amount of cash paid and promissory notes issued, and the value of the Company's
Common Stock issued in connection with these acquisitions was $40,798 and
$34,000, respectively.

      The financial statements have been restated to give retroactive effect to
the Meer, Sullivan, MBMI and Dentrix transactions only, as the remaining
pooling transactions were not material and have been included in the
consolidated financial statements from the beginning of the quarter in which the
acquisitions occurred. Results of operations of the business acquisitions
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting had been included in the
consolidated financial statements commencing with their respective acquisition
dates.

      During 1997, pursuant to a shareholders' agreement, certain minority
shareholders of a subsidiary of the Company exercised their option to sell their
shares in the subsidiary to the Company. The value of the shares put to the
Company was approximately $11,800, of which approximately $3,200 was paid for in
cash, with the remainder payable over two years in equal annual installments.

      The Company has incurred certain direct costs in connection with the
aforementioned acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method
of accounting and the integration of these and certain other acquired businesses
into the Company's infrastructure. These costs, which have been classified as
merger and integration costs are as follows:




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 6-Business Acquisitions-(Continued)





- ----------------------------------------------------

(1)   Primarily investment banking and professional fees, including $3,533
      related to Meer in 1999 (primarily legal fees resulting from the
      acquisition).
(2)   Primarily rent and consulting fees.
(3)   Consists of write-offs of duplicate management information systems, other
      assets and goodwill of $3,724 in 1998 (primarily associated with the
      consolidation of the dental business under one national infrastructure)
      and $4,000 in 1997 (primarily associated with the consolidation of the
      medical business under one national infrastructure). The reduction in
      goodwill was based on the expected loss of customers and resulting
      decrease in cashflows derived from such customers on a pre-acquisition
      basis.
(4)   Signing bonuses and stay pay packages to sales force and certain senior
      management directly related to the mergers.

      The following table shows amounts paid and charged against the merger and
integration accrual.



(1)   to reflect specific write-offs relating to amounts previously provided.



                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 6-Business Acquisitions-(Continued)

      As a result of the acquisitions and integration of these and certain other
businesses into the Company's infrastructure 870 employees were terminated
through December 25, 1999. Of the 870 terminated employees, 129 received
severance payments during 1997, 502 received severance payments during 1998,
206 received severance payments during 1999 and 33 were owed severance at
December 25, 1999.

      The summarized unaudited pro forma results of operations set forth below
for 1999 and 1998 assume the acquisitions, which were accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting, occurred as of the beginning of each of these
periods.





- --------------

(1)Includes merger and integration costs of approximately $13,467 and the
   related tax benefit of $3,983 in 1999 and $56,666 and related tax benefit of
   $12,591 in 1998, respectively.

   Pro forma adjusted net income per common share, including acquisitions, may
not be indicative of actual results, primarily because the pro forma earnings
include historical results of operations of acquired entities and do not reflect
any cost savings or potential sales erosion that may result from the Company's
integration efforts.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 7-Bank Credit Lines

   At December 25, 1999, certain subsidiaries of the Company had available
various bank credit lines totaling approximately $53,241 expiring through
December 2002. Borrowings of $41,527 under these credit lines at interest rates
ranging from 3.93% to 8.25% were collateralized by accounts receivable,
inventory and property and equipment with an aggregate net book value of $85,269
at December 25, 1999.

Note 8--Long-Term Debt

      Long-term debt consists of:




(a) Private Placement Loans

   On June 30, 1999, the Company completed a private placement transaction under
which it issued $130,000 in Senior Notes, the proceeds of which were used for
the permanent financing of its acquisitions of GIV and Heiland, as well
as repaying and retiring a portion of four uncommitted bank lines. The notes
come due on June 30, 2009 and bear interest at a rate of 6.94% per annum.
Interest is payable semi-annually.

   On September 25, 1998, the Company completed a private placement transaction
under which it issued $100,000 in Senior Notes, the proceeds of which were used
to pay down amounts owed under its revolving credit facility. Principal payments
totaling $20,000 are due annually starting September 25, 2006 through 2010. The
notes bear interest at a rate of 6.66% per annum. Interest is payable
semi-annually.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 8-Long-Term Debt--(Continued)

(b) Revolving Credit Agreement

      On August 15, 1997, the Company entered into an amended revolving credit
agreement which, among other things, increased the maximum available borrowings
to $150,000 from $100,000 and extended the term of the agreement to August 15,
2002. The interest rate on any borrowings under the agreement is based on prime
or LIBOR as defined in the agreement, which were 8.50%, and 6.19%, respectively,
at December 25, 1999. The borrowings outstanding at December 25, 1999 were at
interest rates ranging from 4.25% to 6.94%. The agreement provides for a sliding
scale fee ranging from 0.1% to 0.3%, based upon certain financial ratios, on any
unused portion of the commitment. The agreement also provides, among other
things, that the Company will maintain, on a consolidated basis, as defined, a
minimum tangible net worth; current, cash flow, and interest coverage ratios; a
maximum leverage ratio; and contains restrictions relating to annual dividends
in excess of $500, guarantees of subsidiary debt, investments in subsidiaries,
mergers and acquisitions, liens, capital expenditures, certain changes in
ownership and employee and shareholder loans.

(c) Notes Payable for Business Acquisitions

      In May 1997, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a term loan for
$8,299 to acquire the remaining minority interests of a foreign subsidiary. The
loan is denominated in British Pounds, and interest is payable quarterly at
5.5%. In 1998 the Company paid $4,478 and the remaining amount due was paid
during 1999.

      In October 1997, the Company entered into a Netherlands Guilder (NLG) loan
in the amount of 6.5 million NLG. The loan serves to hedge the repayment of an
intercompany loan in the same amount, denominated in NLG, due from a Dutch
subsidiary. The NLG loan calls for periodic payments and a balloon payment of
4.1 million NLG in January 2002. Interest is payable quarterly at a rate of
5.28% per annum, plus a margin. The agreement also provides for the same
financial covenants and restrictions as the revolving credit agreement.

      As of December 25, 1999, the aggregate amounts of long-term debt maturing
in each of the next five years are as follows: 2000 - $3,879; 2001 - $5,648;
2002 - $65,923; 2003 - $2,524; 2004 - $2,020.

Note 9--Taxes on Income

      Taxes on income are based on income before taxes on income, minority
interest and equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates as follows:








                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 9-Taxes on Income--(Continued)

      The provision for taxes on income was as follows:





      The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to the Company's
deferred tax asset (liability) are as follows:





      The net deferred tax asset is realizable as the Company has sufficient
taxable income in prior years to realize the tax benefit for deductible
temporary differences. The non-current deferred liability is included in Other
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 9-Taxes on Income--(Continued)

      At December 25, 1999, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards for
Federal income tax purposes of $718, which are available to offset future
Federal taxable income through 2010. Foreign net operating losses totaled
$9,919 at December 25, 1999. Such losses can be utilized against future foreign
income. These losses expire between 2000 and 2005, with $1,573 expiring in 2000.

      The tax provisions differ from the amount computed using the Federal
statutory income tax rate as follows:





      Provision has not been made for U.S. or additional foreign taxes on
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Those earnings have been and
will continue to be reinvested. These earnings could become subject to
additional tax if they were remitted as dividends, if foreign earnings were
loaned to the Company or a U.S. affiliate, or if the Company should sell its
stock in the foreign subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine the amount
of additional tax, if any, that might be payable on the foreign earnings;
however, the Company believes that foreign tax credits would substantially
offset any U.S. tax. At December 25, 1999, the cumulative amount of reinvested
earnings was approximately $9,790.

Note 10--Financial Instruments and Credit Risk Concentrations

(a) Financial Instruments

      To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies and interest
rates, the Company is party to foreign currency forward contracts and interest
rate swaps with major financial institutions.

      While the Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance
by the counter parties of these contracts, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counter parties. The Company does not require collateral
or other security to support these financial instruments.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 10-Financial Instruments and Credit Risk Concentrations--(Continued)

      As of December 25, 1999, the Company had outstanding foreign currency
forward contracts aggregating $10,800 related to debt and the purchase and sale
of merchandise. The contracts hedge against currency fluctuations of Deutsche
Mark ($800), British Pounds ($8,200), Swiss Francs ($500) and Australian dollars
($1,300). At December 25, 1999, the Company had net deferred losses from foreign
currency forward contracts of $322. The contracts expire at various dates
through February 2001.

      As of December 25, 1999, the Company had $13,000 outstanding in interest
rate swaps. These swaps are used to convert floating rate debt relating to the
Company's revolving credit agreement, to fixed rate debt to reduce the Company's
exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The net result was to substitute a
weighted average fixed interest rate of 7.2% for the variable LIBOR rate on
$13,000 of the Company's debt. The swaps expire in December 2003 and December
2004. Under the interest rate environment during the year ended December 25,
1999, the net fair value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements resulted
in a recognized loss of $263.

(b) Concentrations of Credit Risk

      Certain financial instruments potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk. These financial instruments consist primarily of
trade receivables and short-term cash investments. The Company places its
short-term cash investments with high credit quality financial institutions and,
by policy, limits the amount of credit exposure to any one financial
institution. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are
limited due to a large customer base and its dispersion across different types
of healthcare professionals and geographic areas. The Company maintains an
allowance for losses based on the expected collectability of all receivables.
Included in Accounts receivable at December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998 is
$3,998 and $10,791, respectively, related to Easy Dental(R) Plus software sales
with non-interest bearing extended payment terms. Total unamortized discounts at
December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998 amounted to $348 and $293 based on an
imputed interest rate of 8.50% and 7.75%, respectively. Included in interest
income for the years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27,
1997 was approximately $45, $737 and $1,216, respectively, of imputed interest
relating to these non-interest bearing extended payment term receivables.

Note 11-Segment and Geographic Data

      The Company has two reportable segments: healthcare distribution and
technology. The healthcare distribution segment which is comprised of the
Company's dental, medical, veterinary and international business groups,
distributes healthcare products (primarily consumable) and services to office
based healthcare practitioners and professionals in the combined North American,
European and the Pacific Rim markets. The technology segment consists primarily
of the Company's practice management software business and certain other
value-added products and services which are distributed primarily to healthcare
professionals in the North American market.

      The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates segment
performance based on operating income.

      The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that offer
different products and services, albeit to the same customer base. Most of the
technology business was acquired as a unit, and the management at the time of
acquisition was retained. The following table presents information about the
Company's business segments:




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 11-Segment and Geographic Data--(Continued)




- --------------

(1)Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large
   dental equipment, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, surgical products,
   diagnostic tests, infection control and vitamins.
(2)Consists of products sold in Dental, Medical and Veterinary groups in
   European and Pacific Rim markets.
(3)Consists of practice management software and other value-added products and
   services.





                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 11-Segment and Geographic Data--(Continued)






                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 11-Segment and Geographic Data--(Continued)

   The following table reconciles segment totals to consolidated totals as of,
and for the years ending December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27,
1997:





   The following table presents information about the Company by geographic area
as of, and for the years ending December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and
December 27, 1997. There were no material amounts of sales or transfers among
geographic areas and there were no material amounts of United States export
sales.





Note 12-Employee Benefit Plans

    (a) Stock Compensation Plan

   The Company established the 1994 Stock Option Plan for the benefit of certain
employees. As amended in May 1999, pursuant to this plan the Company may issue
up to approximately 5,180,000 shares of its Common Stock. The Plan provides for
two classes of options: Class A options and Class B options. A maximum of
237,897 shares of Common Stock may be covered by Class A options. Both incentive
and non-qualified stock options may be issued under the Plan.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 12-Employee Benefit Plans--(Continued)

      In 1995, Class A options to acquire 237,897 common shares were issued to
certain executive management at an exercise price of $4.21 per share,
substantially all of which became exercisable upon the closing of the Company's
initial public offering which was on November 3, 1995. The exercise price of
all Class B options issued has been equal to the market price on the date of
grant and accordingly no compensation cost has been recognized. Substantially
all Class B options become exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date
of issuance, subject to acceleration upon termination of employment.

      On May 8, 1996, the Company's stockholders approved the 1996 Non-Employee
Director Stock Option Plan, under which the Company may grant options to each
director who is not also an officer or employee of the Company, for up to 50,000
shares of the Company's Common Stock. The exercise price and term, not to exceed
10 years, of each option is determined by the plan committee at the time of the
grant. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, 13,000, 3,000 and 2,000 options, respectively
were granted to certain non-employee directors at exercise prices which were
equal to the market price on the date of grant.

      Additionally, in 1997 as a result of the Company's acquisition of Sullivan
and MBMI, the Company assumed their respective stock option plans (the "Assumed
Plans"). Options granted under the Assumed Plans are exercisable for up to ten
years from the date of grant at prices not less than the fair market value of
the respective acquirees' common stock at the date of grant, on a converted
basis.

      A summary of the status of the Company's two fixed stock option plans and
the Assumed Plans, and the related transactions for the years ended December 25,
1999, December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997 is presented below:








                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 12-Employee Benefit Plans--(Continued)

      The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 25, 1999:





      The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related interpretations
in accounting for its employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the exercise
price of the Company's employee stock options equals the market price of the
underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

       Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required by FAS 123, and has been determined as if the Company and its acquired
subsidiaries had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value
method of FAS 123. The weighted average fair value of options granted during
1999, 1998 and 1997 was $9.85, $17.17 and $17.68, respectively. The fair value
for these options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions for 1999,
1998 and 1997, risk-free interest rates of 5.6% for 1999 and 5.5% for 1998 and
1997; volatility factor of the expected market price of the Company's Common
Stock of 45.8% for 1999 and 30% for 1998 and 1997, and a weighted-average
expected life of the option of 10 years.

      Under the accounting provisions of FAS 123, the Company's net income
(loss) and earnings (loss) per share for the years ended December 25, 1999,
December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997 would have been adjusted to the pro
forma amounts indicated below:




- ---------------------------------


(1) Special adjustments include adjustments for income tax provisions and
benefits on previously untaxed losses of Meer.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 12-Employee Benefit Plans--(Continued)

(b) Profit Sharing Plans

      Prior to April 1, 1998, the Company had qualified contributory and
noncontributory 401(k) and profit sharing plans, respectively, for eligible
employees. As of April 1, 1998, the Company's profit sharing plan was merged
into its 401(k) plan. Assets of the profit sharing plan are now held in
self-directed accounts within the 401(k) plan. Contributions to the plans were
determined by the Board of Directors and charged to operations during 1999, 1998
and 1997 amounted to $6,517, $6,033 and $5,300, respectively.

(c) Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)

      In 1994, the Company established an ESOP and a related trust as a benefit
for substantially all of its domestic employees. This plan supplemented the
Company's Profit Sharing Plan. Charges to operations related to this plan were
$2,283, $1,400 and $1,226 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Under this
plan, the Company issued 101,233 and 34,720 shares of the Company's Common Stock
to the trust in 1999 and 1998 to satisfy the 1998 and 1997 contribution. The
Company expects to fund the 1999 contribution in 2000 with shares of the
Company's Common Stock. As of April 1, 1998 the Company's ESOP was merged into
its 401(k) plan. Shares of the Company's Common Stock are held in trust by the
401(k) plan.

(d) Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

      In 1994, the Company instituted an unfunded non-qualified supplemental
executive retirement plan for eligible employees. The increase in value which
was charged to operations, were $617, $283 and $112 for 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

Note 13-Commitments and Contingencies

(a) Operating Leases

      The Company leases facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating
leases expiring through 2011. Management expects that in the normal course of
business, leases will be renewed or replaced by other leases.

      Future minimum annual rental payments under the noncancelable leases at
December 25, 1999 are as follows:

        2000 ...................................................  $ 24,637
        2001 ...................................................    20,987
        2002 ...................................................    16,818
        2003 ...................................................    13,653
        2004 ...................................................    12,339
        Thereafter .............................................    33,430
                                                                  --------

        Total minimum lease payments ...........................  $121,864
                                                                  ========


Total rental expense for 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $25,798, $19,130, and $19,537,
respectively.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 13-Commitments and Contingencies --(Continued)

(b)   Capital Leases

      The Company leases certain equipment under capital leases. The following
is a schedule by years of approximate future minimum lease payments under the
capitalized leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease
payments at December 25, 1999.

        2000 ...................................................  $ 1,188
        2001 ...................................................      797
        2002 ...................................................      414
        2003 ...................................................      333
        2004 ...................................................      259
        Thereafter .............................................    1,329
                                                                  --------
        Total minimum lease payments ...........................    4,320
        Less: Amount representing interest at 6.5% to 10% ......     (869)
                                                                  --------
                                                                  $ 3,451
                                                                  ========


(c)   Litigation

      The manufacture or distribution of certain products by the Company
involves a risk of product liability claims, and from time to time the Company
is named as a defendant in products liability cases as a result of its
distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. As of December 25,
1999, the Company was named a defendant in approximately fifty such cases. Of
these product liability claims, thirty-eight involve claims made by healthcare
workers who claim allergic reaction relating to exposure to latex gloves. In
each of these cases, the Company acted as a distributor of both brand name and
"Henry Schein" private brand latex gloves, which were manufactured by third
parties. To date, discovery in these cases has generally been limited to product
identification issues. The manufacturers in these cases have withheld
indemnification of the Company pending product identification; however, the
Company is taking steps to implead those manufacturers into each case in which
the Company is a defendant. The Company is also a named defendant in nine
lawsuits involving the sale of phentermine and fenfluramin. Plaintiffs in the
cases allege injuries from the combined use of the drugs known as "Phen/fen."
The Company expects to obtain indemnification from the manufacturers of these
products, although this is dependent upon the financial viability of the
manufacturer and insurer.

      In addition, the Company is subject to other claims, suits and complaints,
which arise in the course of the Company's business. In Texas District Court,
Travis County, the Company, and one of its subsidiaries, are defendants in a
matter entitled Shelly E. Stromboe & Jeanne N. Taylor, on Behalf of Themselves
and All Other Similarly Situated vs. Henry Schein, Inc., Easy Dental Systems,
Inc. and Dentisoft, Inc. Case No. 98-00886. This complaint alleges among other
things, negligence, breach of contract, fraud and violations of certain Texas
Commercial Statutes involving the sale of certain practice management software
products sold prior to 1998 under the Easy Dental name. In October 1999, the
Court, on motion, certified both a Windows Sub-Class and a DOS Sub-Class to
proceed as a class action pursuant to Tex. R.Civ. P.42. It is estimated that
5,000 Windows customers and 15,000 DOS customers could be covered by the judge's
ruling. The Company has filed an appeal of the Court's determination, during
which time a trial on the merits is stayed. The Company intends to vigorously
defend itself against this claim, as well as all other claims, suits and
complaints.




                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 13-Commitments and Contingencies--(Continued)

      The Company has various insurance policies, including product liability
insurance covering risks and in amounts it considers adequate. In many cases the
Company is provided by indemnification by the manufacturer of the product. There
can be no assurance that the coverage maintained by the Company is sufficient to
cover all future claims or will be available in adequate amounts or at a
reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide adequate
protection for the Company. The Company intends to vigorously defend all such
claims, suits and complaints. In the opinion of the Company, all such pending
matters are covered by insurance or are of such kind, or involve such amounts,
as would not have a material adverse effect on the financial statements of the
Company if disposed of unfavorably.

(d)   Employment, Consulting and Noncompete Agreements

      The Company has employment, consulting and noncompete agreements expiring
through 2004 (except for a lifetime consulting agreement with a principal
stockholder which provides for initial compensation of $283 per year, increasing
$25 every fifth year beginning in 2002). The agreements provide for varying base
aggregate annual payments of approximately $4,337 per year which decrease
periodically to approximately $424 per year. In addition, some agreements have
provisions for incentive and additional compensation.

Note 14-Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Cash paid for interest and income taxes amounted to the following:




In conjunction with business acquisitions, the Company used cash as follows:







                       HENRY SCHEIN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)


Note 15-Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

      The following presents certain unaudited quarterly financial data:




      The Company's business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly
influences. Net sales and operating profits are generally higher in the fourth
quarter due to timing of sales of software and equipment, year-end promotions
and purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and are
generally lower in the first quarter due primarily to the increased purchases in
the prior quarter. Quarterly results also may be materially affected by a
variety of other factors, including the timing of acquisitions and related
costs, the release of software enhancements, timing of purchases, special
promotional campaigns, fluctuations in exchange rates associated with
international operations and adverse weather conditions. Diluted earnings per
share calculations for each quarter include the effect of stock options, when
dilutive to the quarter's average number of shares outstanding for each period,
and therefore the sum of the quarters may not necessarily be equal to the full
year earnings per share amount.

      During the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company incurred incremental costs
totaling approximately $400 and reduced earnings from an affiliate totaling
approximately $1,300 net of taxes due to a voluntary recall of anesthetic
products produced by an affiliated company which is accounted for under the
equity method.





ITEM 9.  Changes In and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

            None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The information set forth under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information set
forth under the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive 2000
Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11.    Executive Compensation

      The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive 2000 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive 2000 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

ITEM 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive 2000 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)   1.    Financial Statements
      The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company filed as a part of
      this report are listed on the index on page 28.

2.    Financial Statement Schedules
      None.

      3.    Exhibits

      The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K and filed herewith are
      listed in the Exhibit List immediately preceding the exhibits.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K
      None.




                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the
City of Melville, State of New York, on March 24, 2000.

                                             Henry Schein, Inc.


                                             By:   /s/ STANLEY M. BERGMAN
                                             Stanley M. Bergman
                                             Chairman, Chief Executive
                                             Officer and President

      Pursuant to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
this  report  has been  signed  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


Henry Schein, Inc.
Melville, New York



The audits referred to in our report dated February 25, 2000 relating to the
consolidated financial statements of Henry Schein, Inc. and subsidiaries, which
is contained in Item 8 of the Form 10-K included the audit of the financial
statement schedule listed in the accompanying index. This financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the financial statement schedule based upon our
audits.

In our opinion the financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

BDO SEIDMAN, LLP


February 25, 2000
New York, New York




                                   Schedule II

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts




(1) Primarily allowance for sales returns

















- -----------
+  Filed herewith
** Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or agreement




