
10-K
f72121e10-k.txt
10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
                            ------------------------

     [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2001

                                       OR

     [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-13252
                            ------------------------

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.
                             A DELAWARE CORPORATION

                I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER 94-3207296

                              MCKESSON HBOC PLAZA,
                                ONE POST STREET,
                            SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94104
                     TELEPHONE -- AREA CODE (415) 983-8300

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE.

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant at April 30, 2001: $8,783,293,063

     Number of shares of common stock outstanding at April 30, 2001: 284,801,980

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on July 25, 2001 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                               


                                        i


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

     McKesson HBOC, Inc. ("McKessonHBOC," the "Company" or the "Registrant"),
the world's largest health care service and technology company and a Fortune 35
corporation, delivers unique supply and information management solutions that
reduce costs and improve quality for its health care customers.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

     The Company is organized under two operating segments: Health Care Supply
Management and Health Care Information Technology. Within the United States and
Canada, the Health Care Supply Management segment is a leading wholesale
distributor of ethical and proprietary drugs, medical-surgical supplies and
health and beauty care products principally to chain and independent drug
stores, hospitals, alternate care sites, food stores and mass merchandisers. The
Health Care Information Technology segment delivers enterprise-wide patient
care, clinical, financial, managed care, payor and strategic management software
solutions, as well as networking technologies, electronic commerce, information
outsourcing and other services to health care organizations throughout the
United States and certain foreign countries.

     The Company generated annual sales of $42.0 billion, $36.7 billion, and
$30.0 billion in fiscal years 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively; approximately
$41.1 billion, 98%, $35.7 billion, 97%, and $28.7 billion, 96%, respectively, in
the Health Care Supply Management segment and approximately $0.9 billion, 2%,
$1.0 billion, 3% and $1.3 billion, 4%, respectively, in the Health Care
Information Technology segment.

     Financial information about the Company's business segments for each of the
three years in the period ended March 31, 2001 is included in Financial Note 17
to the consolidated financial statements, "Segments of Business," appearing on
pages F-60 to F-62 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

HEALTH CARE SUPPLY MANAGEMENT

  Products and Markets

     Through its Health Care Supply Management segment, McKessonHBOC is a
leading distributor of ethical and proprietary drugs, medical-surgical supplies
and health and beauty care products and provider of services to the health care
industry in North America. The Company's Health Care Supply Management segment
consists of the Pharmaceutical Group, the Medical Group, the Automation Group,
the Medical Management Group, the Pharmaceutical Partners Group, Zee Medical and
MedManagement (collectively, the "Supply Management Business").

     The Pharmaceutical Group supplies pharmaceuticals and health care related
products to three primary customer segments: retail chains (pharmacies, food
stores, and mass merchandisers), retail independent pharmacies and institutional
providers (including hospitals, alternate-site providers, and integrated health
networks) in all 50 states. These three customer categories represented
approximately 42.4%, 24.5%, and 33.1%, respectively, of the Pharmaceutical
Distribution Group's revenues in fiscal 2001. Operating under the trade names
EconoMost(R) and EconoLink(R) and a number of related service marks, the Company
promotes electronic order entry systems and a wide range of computerized
merchandising and asset management services for pharmaceutical retailers and
health care institutions. The Company has developed advanced marketing programs
and information services for retail pharmacies. These initiatives include the
Valu-Rite(R), Valu-Rite/CareMax(R) and Health Mart(R) retail networks, the
OmniLink(R) centralized pharmacy technology platform, which offers retail
network members connectivity with managed care organizations while promoting
compliance with managed care plans, and .com pharmacy solutions(SM), a service
initiative that allows independent pharmacies to set up their own websites for
selling OTC products and prescription refills to their customers. The Company's
nationwide network of distribution centers utilizes the Acumax(R) Plus warehouse
management system which provides real-time inventory statistics and tracks
products from the receiving dock to shipping through scanned bar code
information and radio frequency signals with accuracy levels above 99%



to help ensure that the right product arrives at the right time and place for
both the Company's customers and their patients. The Company believes that its
financial strength, purchasing leverage, affiliation networks, nationwide
network of distribution centers, and advanced logistics and information
technologies provide competitive advantages to its pharmaceutical distribution
operations.

     The Medical Group offers a full range of medical-surgical supplies,
equipment, logistics and related services across the continuum of health care
providers: hospitals, physicians' offices, long-term care, and homecare. The
Medical Group includes the operations of McKesson General Medical Corporation
("MGM"), RedLine Extended Care, Hawk Medical Supply and MedPath. The Medical
Group is the nation's third largest distributor of medical-surgical supplies to
hospitals (acute care) and a leading supplier of medical-surgical supplies to
the full-range of alternate-site health care facilities, including physicians
and clinics (primary care), long-term care and homecare sites. The Medical
Group's Supply Management On-Line provides an advanced way of ordering
medical-surgical products over the Internet and its Optipak program allows
physicians to customize ordering of supplies according to individual surgical
procedure preferences.

     The Automation Group manufactures and markets automated pharmacy systems
and services to hospitals and retail pharmacies through its McKesson Automated
Healthcare ("MAH") and McKesson Automated Prescription Systems ("APS") units.
Key products of MAH include the ROBOT-Rx(TM) system, a robotic pharmacy
dispensing and utilization tracking system that enables hospitals to lower
pharmacy costs while significantly improving the accuracy of pharmaceutical
dispensing, AcuDose-Rx(TM) unit-based cabinets which automate the storage,
dispensing and tracking of commonly used drugs in patient areas, AcuScan-Rx(TM)
which records, automates, and streamlines drug administration and medication
information requirements through bar code scanning at the patient's bedside and
SupplyScan(SM), a point-of-use supply management system. APS manufactures a wide
range of pharmaceutical dispensing and productivity products including Baker
Cells(TM) and Baker Cassettes(TM), modular units that provide pharmacists with
quick and accurate counting capabilities combined with efficient space
management; Autoscript(TM), a robotic pharmacy dispensing system that enables
retail pharmacies to lower pharmacy costs through high volume dispensing while
improving accuracy through the use of bar code technology; and Pharmacy
2000(TM), an interactive workstation system which combines software and
automation to improve productivity throughout the pharmacy prescription sales
process.

     The Medical Management Group brings together a comprehensive platform of
medical management services and tools to help payors and providers better manage
the cost and outcomes of medical care. The Medical Management Group delivers
complete solutions through five Care Enhance(SM) product and service families:
Care Enhance(SM) Services (telephonic nurse advice and disease management), Care
Enhance(SM) Clinical Management Software (disease, utilization and case
management software), Care Enhance(SM) Clinical Criteria (InterQual(R) clinical
appropriateness, level-of-care and clinically specific decision support
criteria), Care Enhance(SM) Resource Management Software (provider profiling,
analytic and HEDIS reporting software), and Care Enhance(SM) Access Center
Products (triage and referral management software).

     The Pharmaceutical Partners Group combines the Company's pharmaceutical and
biotechnology services in a single group that is focused on helping
manufacturers meet their marketing goals. The Pharmaceutical Partners Group
provides sales, marketing and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and
biotechnology customers including distribution management and reimbursement
services, services in support of clinical trials and biomedical research, direct
mail and fulfillment services, decision support and data analysis, business
analytics, and integrated contract sales and marketing support services.

     Zee Medical, Inc. ("Zee Medical") is the nation's leading provider of
first-aid and safety products, training and services. Zee Medical distributes
first-aid products and safety supplies and offers safety programs and materials
to assist industrial and commercial customers reduce their exposure to
escalating health care costs associated with on-the-job injuries and illnesses.

     McKesson MedManagement, L.L.C. ("MedManagement") is a leading pharmacy
management, purchasing, consulting and information services company that
combines clinical expertise, financial management capabilities, operational
tools and technologies and experience to assist health care organizations


optimize care and pharmaceutical resources. MedManagement provides customized
solutions that allow its customer to improve their pharmaceutical distribution,
automation and information technology capabilities and measure quality
improvement through proven clinical and operational metrics.

     International operations of the Pharmaceutical Group business include Medis
Health and Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ("Medis"), a wholly-owned subsidiary
and the largest pharmaceutical distributor in Canada; and the Company's 22%
equity interest in Nadro, S.A. de C.V., a leading pharmaceutical distributor in
Mexico.

  Intellectual Property

     The principal trademarks and service marks of the Health Care Supply
Management segment include: ECONOMOST(R), ECONOLINK(R), VALU-RITE(R),
Valu-Rite/CareMax(R), OmniLink(R), Health Mart(R), ASK-A-NURSE(R),
Credentialer(R), Episode Profiler(R), InterQual(R), America's Source for Health
Care Answers(R), coSource(R), ROBOT-Rx(TM), AcuDose-Rx(TM), AcuScan-Rx(TM), Pak
Plus-Rx(TM), SelfPace(TM), Baker Cells(TM), Baker Cassettes(TM), Baker
Universal(TM), Autoscript(TM), Pharmacy 2000(TM), CRMS(TM), Patterns
Profiler(TM), Care Enhance(SM), Closed Loop Distribution(SM), .com Pharmacy
Solutions(SM) and SupplyScan(SM). The Company also owns other registered and
unregistered trademarks and service marks and similar rights used by the Health
Care Supply Management segment. All of the principal marks are registered in the
United States or registration has been applied for with respect to such marks.
The United States federal registrations of these trademarks and service marks
have ten or twenty-year terms, depending on date of registration. All are
subject to unlimited renewals. The Company believes this business has taken all
necessary steps to preserve the registration and duration of its trademarks and
service marks, although no assurance can be given that it will be able to
successfully enforce or protect its rights thereunder in the event that they are
subject to third-party infringement claims. The Company does not consider any
particular patent, license, franchise or concession to be material to the
business of the Health Care Supply Management segment.

  Competition

     In every area of operations, the Company's distribution businesses face
strong competition both in price and service from national, regional and local
full-line, short-line and specialty wholesalers, service merchandisers,
self-warehousing chains, and from manufacturers engaged in direct distribution.
The Health Care Supply Management segment faces competition from various other
service providers and from pharmaceutical and other health care manufacturers
(as well as other potential customers of the Health Care Supply Management
segment) which may from time to time decide to develop, for their own internal
needs, supply management capabilities which are provided by the Health Care
Supply Management segment and other competing service providers. Price, quality
of service, and, in some cases, convenience to the customer are generally the
principal competitive elements in the Health Care Supply Management segment.

HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

  Products and Markets

     The Company's Health Care Information Technology segment provides patient
care, clinical, financial, supply chain, managed care and strategic management
software solutions for providers and payors in the health care industry. The
segment also provides a full complement of network communications technologies,
including wireless capabilities, as well as outsourcing services in which its
staff manages and operates data centers, information systems, organizations and
business offices of health care institutions of various sizes and structures. In
addition, the segment offers a wide range of care management and electronic
commerce services, including electronic medical claims and remittance advice
services, and statement processing.

     The Health Care Information Technology segment markets its products and
services to integrated delivery networks, hospitals, physicians' offices, home
health providers, pharmacies, reference laboratories, managed care providers and
payors. The segment also sells its products and services internationally through
subsidiaries and/or distribution agreements in the United Kingdom, France, the
Netherlands, Canada, Ireland, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Australia, New Zealand and
Puerto Rico.



     The Health Care Information Technology segment's product portfolio is
organized into eight components: acute-care or hospital information systems
("HIS"), infrastructure, clinical management, practice management, access
management, resource management, enterprise management and payor solutions.

     Hospital Information Systems. HIS applications automate the operation of
individual departments and their respective functions within the in-patient
environment. The Company's HIS systems include applications for patient care,
laboratory, pharmacy, radiology and finance.

     Infrastructure. Infrastructure components include local, wide area and
value-added networks, wireless technology, electronic data interchange (EDI)
capabilities, an interface manager and a data repository. Other infrastructure
applications include document imaging as well as an enterprise master person
index.

     Clinical Management. The segment's point-of-care applications are designed
to allow physicians and other clinicians to document patient information,
establish and manage guidelines or standards of care, enter and manage orders,
and view all results and clinical information. The Clinical Management product
portfolio includes a clinical suite of products consisting of browser-based
software applications which may be purchased and used separately or collectively
to automate internal and external clinical communications including: multi-
laboratory order entry and result reporting, electronic prescribing within
formulary and medical guidelines, and advance task management and medical record
documentation including web-based dictation, transcription and attestation, most
of which are done via paper today.

     Practice Management. Practice management applications provide a
comprehensive solution for medical groups and physician enterprises, whether
they are independent or part of an integrated health network. With business
office management as its cornerstone, the Company's practice management solution
also includes risk management and managed care capabilities, clinical systems
for managing patient care, and scheduling, as well as decision support, computer
telephony, data quality analysis and electronic commerce.

     Access Management. Access management solutions include indexing
applications that organize the vast amounts of information collected about a
person throughout the enterprise, allowing patients to be tracked and
information about them to be accessed wherever they go for care as well as
scheduling systems that instantly register and schedule patients, and the
resources needed to serve them, anywhere in the enterprise.

     Resource Management. Resource management applications including supply
chain and management decision-making help health care organizations better
manage people, facilities, supplies, services and equipment by integrating
materials management, accounts payable/general ledger, surgical services
management and staff scheduling functions.

     Enterprise Management. Enterprise management applications focus on
providing managers with the clinical, financial and other information necessary
to contain costs while ensuring high-quality care, including utilization
management, accounts receivable management and managed care contracting and
member management applications.

     Payor Solutions. Payor solutions support a range of health insurance and
managed care needs. Solutions include businesswide systems that automate all
financial and administrative operations, as well as clinically intelligent
solutions that monitor quality of care and support provider credentialing and
profiling, claims audit, care management, utilization and financial-based
analysis.

     In addition to the segment's product offerings described above, the segment
also provides the following services:

     Enterprise Services. Enterprise services include UNIX processing support,
remote system monitoring and single-point issue resolution. In addition, the
Health Care Information Technology segment's service path implementation
methodology provides a flexible suite of implementation services that can
include an enterprise project manager to assist in planning, installing and
supporting multiple Company products. Other service areas include education,
enterprise consulting, application-specific services, computer telephony and
care management services.



     Connect Technology Group. The Connect Technology Group provides network
installation and support, as well as a suite of information services that extend
local area networks outside of the hospital to include payors, vendors,
financial institutions and the Internet.

     Outsourcing Services Group. The Health Care Information Technology segment
has been in the outsourcing business in the United States for more than 20 years
and also offers outsourcing services in the United Kingdom. Outsourcing services
include managing hospital data processing operations (traditionally known as
facilities management) as well as strategic management services in information
systems planning, receivables management, revenue cycle outsourcing, payroll
processing, business office administration and major system conversions.

     Electronic Commerce Group. The Health Care Information Technology segment's
e-commerce capabilities in EDI service include claims processing, eligibility
verification and remittance advice as well as statement printing.

  Research and Development

     The Health Care Information Technology segment's product development effort
applies computer technology and installation methodologies to specific
information processing needs of hospitals. Management believes a substantial and
sustained commitment to such research and development ("R&D") is important to
the long-term success of the business.

     Investment in software development includes both R&D expense as well as
capitalized software. The Health Care Information Technology segment expended
$152.5 million (16% of revenue) for R&D activities during fiscal 2001, compared
to $148.4 million (15% of revenue) and $145.8 million (11% of revenue) during
2000 and 1999, respectively. The Health Care Information Technology segment
capitalized 20%, 29% and 32% of its R&D expenditures in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

     Information regarding R&D is included in Financial Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements, "Significant Accounting Policies," appearing
on pages F-35 to F-37 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

  Intellectual Property

     The substantial majority of technical concepts and codes embodied in the
Health Care Information Technology segment's computer programs and program
documentation are not protected by patents or copyrights but constitute trade
secrets that are proprietary to the Company. The principal trademarks and
service marks of the Health Care Information Technology segment are: AMISYS(R),
HealthQuest(R), Paragon(R), Pathways 2000(R), TRENDSTAR(R), Horizon WP(TM),
Series 2000(TM), Star 2000(TM), Connect 2000(SM), PracticePoint(SM). The Company
also owns other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks and
similar rights used by the Health Care Information Technology segment. All of
the principal trademarks and service marks are registered in the United States
or registrations have been applied for with respect to such marks, in addition
to certain other jurisdictions. The United States federal registrations of these
trademarks have terms of ten or twenty years, depending on date of registration,
and are subject to unlimited renewals. The Company believes this business has
taken all necessary steps to preserve the registration and duration of its
trademarks and service marks, although no assurance can be given that it will be
able to successfully enforce or protect its rights thereunder in the event that
they are subject to third-party infringement claims. The Company does not
consider any particular patent, license, franchise or concession to be material
to the business of the Health Care Information Technology segment.

  Competition

     The Company's Health Care Information Technology segment experiences
substantial competition from many firms, including other computer services
firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain hospitals and hospital
groups, hardware vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable
to the health care industry. Competition varies in size from small to large
companies, in geographical coverage, and in scope and breadth of products and
services offered.



RECENT ACQUISITIONS, INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS

     McKessonHBOC has undertaken numerous strategic initiatives in recent years
to further focus the Company on its core health care businesses and enhance its
competitive position. These include the following significant acquisitions and
dispositions:

  Acquisitions and Investments

     - In July 2000, the Company acquired MediVation, Inc., a provider of an
       automated web-based system for physicians to communicate with patients
       online, for approximately $24 million in cash, $14 million in Company
       common stock and the assumption of $6 million of employee stock
       incentives.

     - In April 2000, the Company and three other health care product
       distributors announced an agreement to form the New Health Exchange
       (subsequently renamed "Health Nexis"). Health Nexis is an Internet-based
       company focused on information systems and other technology solutions to
       streamline communication, processing and management of product and
       contract data across the health care supply chain. The Company accounts
       for its 34% interest in Health Nexis under the equity method of
       accounting. In fiscal 2001, the Company invested $10.8 million in Health
       Nexis.

     - In November 1999, the Company acquired Abaton.com, a provider of
       internet-based clinical applications for use by physician practices,
       pharmacy benefit managers, benefit payors, laboratories and pharmacies,
       for approximately $95 million in cash and the assumption of $8 million of
       employee stock incentives.

     - In January 1999, McKesson Corporation ("McKesson") completed the
       acquisition of HBO & Company ("HBOC"), a leading health care information
       technology company, by exchanging 177 million shares of McKesson common
       stock for all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of
       HBOC. Each share of HBOC common stock was exchanged for 0.37 of a share
       of McKesson common stock (the "Exchange Ratio"). McKesson was renamed
       McKesson HBOC, Inc. The transaction was structured as a tax-free
       reorganization and was accounted for as a pooling of interests.

     - In December 1998, the Company acquired Access Health, Inc. ("Access"), a
       provider of clinically based care management programs and health care
       information services, for the equivalent, after application of the
       Exchange Ratio, of approximately 12.7 million shares of Company common
       stock.

     - In November 1998, the Company acquired RedLine HealthCare Corporation
       ("RedLine"), a distributor of medical supplies and services to the
       extended-care industry, including long-term care and home-care sites, for
       approximately $233 million in cash.

     - In October 1998, the Company acquired IMNET Systems, Inc. ("IMNET"), a
       provider of electronic information and document management solutions for
       the health care industry, for the equivalent, after application of the
       Exchange Ratio, of approximately 3.6 million shares of Company common
       stock and 0.6 million Company stock options.

  Disposition

     - In February 2000, the Company disposed of its last non-health care
       business, its wholly-owned subsidiary McKesson Water Products Company,
       for approximately $1.1 billion in cash.

OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT THE BUSINESS

     Customers -- The Company's recent strategy has been to build relationships
with large customers that are achieving rapid growth. A significant portion of
the Company's increase in sales has been to a limited number of these large
customers. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, sales to the Company's
ten largest customers accounted for approximately 57% of the Company's revenues;
sales to the largest customer, Rite Aid Corporation, represented approximately
16% of the Company's revenues.

     Environmental Legislation -- The Company sold its chemical distribution
operations in fiscal 1987 and retained responsibility for certain environmental
obligations. Agreements with the Environmental Protection



Agency and certain states may require environmental assessments and cleanups at
several closed sites. These matters are described further in "Item 3. Legal
Proceedings" on pages 7 to 13 of this report. Other than any capital
expenditures which may be required in connection with those matters, the Company
does not anticipate making substantial capital expenditures for environmental
control facilities or to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the
future. The amount of capital expenditures expended by the Company for
environmental compliance was not material in fiscal 2001 and is not expected to
be material in the next fiscal year.

     Employees -- At March 31, 2001, the Company employed approximately 23,000
persons.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

     Information as to foreign operations is included in Financial Note 17 to
the consolidated financial statements "Segments of Business," appearing on pages
F-60 to F-62 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     Because of the nature of the Company's principal businesses, plant,
warehousing, office and other facilities are operated in widely dispersed
locations. The warehouses are typically owned or leased on a long-term basis.
The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory condition
and adequate to meet its needs for the next several years without making capital
expenditures materially higher than historical levels. Information as to
material lease commitments is included in Financial Note 12 to the consolidated
financial statements, "Lease Obligations," appearing on page F-50 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  I. Accounting Litigation

     Since the Company's announcements in April, May and July of 1999 that the
Company had determined that certain software sales transactions in its
Information Technology Business unit, formerly HBOC, were improperly recorded as
revenue and reversed, as of April 30, 2001, eighty-five lawsuits have been filed
against the Company, certain of the Company's or HBOC's current or former
officers or directors, and other defendants including, Bear Stearns & Co., Inc.
("Bear Stearns"), and Arthur Andersen LLP ("Arthur Andersen").

  A. Federal Actions

     Sixty-five of these actions have been filed in Federal Court (the "Federal
Actions"). Of these, fifty-nine were filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, one in the Northern District of Illinois (which
has been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice), one in the Northern District
of Georgia (which has been transferred to the Northern District of California),
one in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (which has been transferred to the
Northern District of California), two in the Western District of Louisiana
(which have been transferred to the Northern District of California) and one in
the District of Arizona (which has been transferred to the Northern District of
California).

     On November 2, 1999, the Honorable Ronald M. Whyte of the Northern District
of California issued an order consolidating fifty-three of these actions into
one action entitled In RE McKesson HBOC, Inc. Securities Litigation (Case No.
C-99-20743 RMW) (the "Consolidated Action"), and by order dated December 22,
1999, appointed the New York State Common Retirement Fund as lead plaintiff
("Lead Plaintiff") and approved Lead Plaintiffs' choice of counsel. Judge
Whyte's November 2, 1999 order also provided that related cases transferred to
the Northern District of California shall be consolidated with the Consolidated
Action. Judge Whyte's December 22 order also consolidated an individual action,
Jacobs v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (C-99-21192 RMW), with the Consolidated
Action. On September 21, 2000, the plaintiffs in Jacobs filed an individual
action in the Northern District of California entitled Jacobs v. HBO & Company
(Case No. C-00-20974 RMW), which is to be consolidated with the Consolidated
Action and which purports to



state claims under Sections 11 and 12(2) of the Securities Act of 1933
("Securities Act"), Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
("Exchange Act") and various state law causes of action. By order dated February
7, 2000, Judge Whyte coordinated a class action alleging ERISA claims, Chang v.
McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. C-00-20030 RMW) and a shareholder
derivative action that had been filed in the Northern District under the caption
Cohen v. McCall et. al. (Case No. C-99-20916 RMW) with the Consolidated Action.

     Lead Plaintiff filed an Amended and Consolidated Class Action Complaint
(the "ACCAC") on February 25, 2000. The ACCAC generally alleged that defendants
violated the federal securities laws in connection with the events leading to
the Company's announcements in April, May and July, 1999. On September 28, 2000,
Judge Whyte dismissed all of the ACCAC claims against McKesson under Section 11
of the Securities Act with prejudice, dismissed a claim under Section 14(a) of
the Exchange Act with leave to amend and declined to dismiss a claim against
McKesson under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act.

     On November 14, 2000, Lead Plaintiff filed its Second Amended and
Consolidated Class Action Complaint ("SAC"). As with its ACCAC, Lead Plaintiff's
SAC generally alleges that the defendants named therein violated the federal
securities laws in connection with the events leading to the Company's
announcements in April, May and July, 1999. The SAC names the Company, HBOC,
certain current or former officers or directors of the Company or HBOC, Arthur
Andersen and Bear Stearns as defendants. The SAC purports to state claims
against the Company under Sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the Exchange Act.

     On January 18, 2001, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the claim under
Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act in its entirety, and the claim under Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act to the extent it is based on the statements or conduct
of the Company prior to the Merger. HBOC also filed its own motion to dismiss
the claim based on Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act insofar as that claim is
asserted on behalf of McKesson shareholders. Those motions were heard on March
23, 2001, and Judge Whyte has not yet issued an order.

     On January 11, 2001, the Company filed an action in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of California against the Lead Plaintiff in the
Consolidated Action individually, and as a representative of a defendant class
of former HBOC shareholders who exchanged HBOC shares for Company shares in the
Merger, McKesson HBOC, Inc. v. New York State Common Retirement Fund, Inc. et
al. (Case No. C01-20021 RMW) (the "Complaint and Counterclaim"). In the
Complaint and Counterclaim, the Company alleges that the exchanged HBOC shares
were artificially inflated due to undisclosed accounting improprieties, and that
the exchange ratio therefore provided more shares to former HBOC shareholders
than would have otherwise been the case. In this action, the Company seeks to
recover the "unjust enrichment" received by those HBOC shareholders who
exchanged more than 20,000 HBOC shares in the Merger. The Company does not
allege any wrongdoing by these shareholders. Lead Plaintiff's motion to dismiss
the Complaint and Counterclaim was heard on March 23, 2001, and Judge Whyte has
not yet issued an order.

     Two other individual actions, Bea v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No.
C-0020072 RMV), and Cater v. McKesson Corporation et al. (Case No. C-00-20327
RMW), have also been filed in the Northern District of California. By
stipulation, Bea has been consolidated with the Consolidated Action and Cater
has been stayed pending resolution of the Company's motion to dismiss the
Consolidated Complaint. One other individual action, Baker v. McKesson HBOC,
Inc. et al. (Case No. CV 00-0188) was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Louisiana. The Company moved to transfer Baker to the
Northern District of California, together with a parallel state court action,
Baker v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (filed as Case No. 199018; Case No.
CV-00-0522 after removal), which had been removed to federal court. Both of the
Baker cases have been transferred to the Northern District of California where
they have been consolidated with the Consolidated Action. An additional action,
Rosenberg v. McCall et al. (Case No. 1:99-CV-1447 JEC) was filed in the Northern
District of Georgia and subsequently transferred to the Northern District of
California, but that action names only two former officers and does not name the
Company. Finally, on July 24, 2000, an action captioned Hess v. McKesson HBOC,
Inc. et al. was filed in state court in Arizona (Case No. C-20003862) on behalf
of former shareholders of Ephrata Diamond Spring Water Company ("Ephrata") who
acquired McKesson shares in exchange for their Ephrata stock when McKesson
acquired Ephrata in January, 1999. On August 24, 2000, the Company removed the
Hess action to the United States



District Court for the District of Arizona, and on March 28, 2001, the District
Court in Arizona granted the Company's motion to transfer the case to the
Northern District of California.

  B. State Actions

     Twenty actions have also been filed in various state courts in California,
Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana and Pennsylvania (the "State Actions").
Like the Consolidated Action, the State Actions generally allege misconduct by
the defendants in connection with the events leading to the Company's need to
restate its financial statements.

     Two of the State Actions are derivative actions: Ash, et al. v. McCall, et
al. (Case No. 17132), filed in the Delaware Chancery Court and Mitchell v.
McCall et al. (Case. No. 304415), filed in California Superior Court, City and
County of San Francisco. The Company moved to dismiss both of these actions and
to stay the Mitchell action in favor of the earlier filed Ash and Cohen
derivative actions. Plaintiffs in Mitchell agreed to defer any action by the
court on the Company's motions pending resolution of the Company's dismissal
motions in Ash. On September 15, 2000, the Ash court dismissed all causes of
action with leave to replead certain of the dismissed claims, and on January 22,
2001, the Ash plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint which is presently the
subject of the Company's motions to dismiss.

     Five of the State Actions are class actions. Three of these were filed in
Delaware Chancery Court: Derdiger v. Tallman et al. (Case No. 17276), Carroll v.
McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 17454), and Kelly v. McKesson HBOC, Inc., et al.
(Case No. 17282 NC). Two additional actions were filed in Delaware Superior
Court: Edmondson v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 99-951) and Caravetta v.
McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 00C-04-214 WTQ). The Carroll and Kelly actions
have been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. The Company has removed
Edmondson to Federal Court in Delaware where plaintiffs have filed a motion to
remand, which is pending. The Company's motions to stay the Derdiger and
Caravetta actions in favor of proceedings in the federal Consolidated Action
have been granted.

     Thirteen of the State Actions are individual actions which have been filed
in various state courts. Four of these were filed in the California Superior
Court, City and County of San Francisco: Yurick v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et
al.(Case No. 303857), The State of Oregon by and through the Oregon Public
Employees Retirement Board v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 307619), Utah
State Retirement Board v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 311269), and
Minnesota State Board of Investment v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No.
311747). In Yurick, the trial court sustained the Company's demurrer to the
original complaint without leave to amend with respect to all causes of action,
except the claims for common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation as to
which amendment was allowed. The Court also stayed Yurick pending the
commencement of discovery in the Consolidated Action, but allowed the filing of
an amended complaint. The Company's demurrer to that amended pleading was heard
on May 23, 2001 and no order has yet been issued. On May 23, 2001, the
California Court of Appeals affirmed the Yurick trial court's order dismissing
claims against certain of the individual defendants in the action without leave
to amend. The Oregon, Utah and Minnesota actions referenced above are individual
securities actions filed in the California Superior Court for the City and
County of San Francisco by out-of-state pension funds. Plaintiffs in each of
those actions are in the process of filing amended complaints, and action on the
Company's motions seeking stays of those actions and demurrers to the prior
complaints has been suspended pending defendants' responses to those amended
pleadings.

     Ten individual actions have been filed in various state courts outside of
California. Five of these cases have been filed in Georgia state courts: Moulton
v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 98-13176-9), involving a former HBOC
employee's claim for unpaid commissions, claims under Georgia's securities and
racketeering laws, as well as various common law causes of action, has been
settled and dismissed with prejudice. Powell v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case
No. 1999CV-15443), involving a former HBOC employee's claims for unpaid
commissions, claims under Georgia's securities and racketeering laws, as well as
various common law causes of action, was dismissed by plaintiff and refiled as
Case No. 2000-CV-27864 and the Company's motions to dismiss or stay that action
are presently pending. In Adler v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 99-C-7980-3), a
former HBOC shareholder asserts a claim for common law fraud. The Georgia



Court of Appeals has granted interlocutory review of an order issued in Adler
and the prior June, 2001, trial date has been vacated. Suffolk Partners Limited
Partnership et al. v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No.00 VS 010469A) and
Curran Partners, L.P. v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 00 VS-010801) are
related actions brought on behalf of individual shareholders and are based on
Georgia securities, racketeering and common law claims. The Company has moved to
stay both the Suffolk and Curran actions in favor of proceedings in the federal
Consolidated Action. Those motions have been heard by the Court and no order has
yet been issued.

     Three individual state court cases have been filed outside of California.
Grant v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. (C.A. No. 99-03978) was filed on May 12, 1999 in
the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Chester County. The Grant case relates
to the Company's acquisition of Keystone/Ozone Pure Water Company ("Keystone").
Plaintiffs are former shareholders of Keystone who received McKesson shares in
exchange for their shares in Keystone pursuant to a merger agreement between
plaintiffs, McKesson and a McKesson subsidiary. On March 6, 2001, the Court
denied the Company's motion to stay and dismissed with prejudice all plaintiffs'
claims except for those based on breach of contract and negligent
misrepresentation. The Company answered the Grant complaint on March 26, 2001.
On September 28, 1999, an action was filed in Delaware Superior Court under the
caption Kelly v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (C.A. No. 99C-09-265 WCC).
Plaintiffs in Kelly are former shareholders of KWS&P/SFA, Inc., which merged
into the Company after the Merger. Plaintiffs assert claims under the federal
securities laws, as well as claims for breach of contract and breach of the duty
of good faith and fair dealing. The Company's motion to dismiss and plaintiffs'
motion for summary judgment remain pending before the Court. On October 19,
1999, an individual action was filed in Colorado District Court, Boulder County,
under the caption American Healthcare Fund II v. HBO & Company et al. (Case No.
00-CV-1762). Plaintiffs in American Healthcare are former shareholders of Access
Health, Inc., a company acquired by HBOC prior to the Merger, and assert claims
for breach of the merger contract and related claims. The Company has answered
an amended complaint and filed a counterclaim against the plaintiffs alleging
that, as HBOC shareholders exchanging HBOC shares for McKesson shares in the
Merger, plaintiffs were unjustly enriched. Discovery has commenced and trial is
currently set for September 10, 2001.

     The previously reported investigations by the United States Attorney's
Office and the Securities and Exchange Commission are continuing. On May 15,
2000, the United States Attorney's Office filed a one-count information against
former HBOC officer, Dominick DeRosa, charging Mr. DeRosa with aiding and
abetting securities fraud, and on May 15, 2000, Mr. DeRosa entered a guilty plea
to that charge. On September 28, 2000, an indictment was unsealed in the
Northern District of California against former HBOC officer, Jay P. Gilbertson,
and former Company and HBOC Officer, Albert J. Bergonzi (United States v.
Bergonzi, et al., Case No. CR-00-0505). On that same date, a civil complaint was
filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission against Mr. Gilbertson, Mr.
Bergonzi and Mr. DeRosa (Securities and Exchange Commission v. Gilbertson, et
al., Case No. C-00-3570.) Mr. DeRosa has settled with the Securities Exchange
Commission without admitting or denying the substantive allegations of the
complaint. On January 10, 2001, the grand jury returned a superseding indictment
in the Northern District of California against Messrs. Gilbertson and Bergonzi
(United States v. Bergonzi, et al., Case No. CR-00-0505).

     The Company does not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the
outcome or resolution of the Accounting Litigation proceedings, or to estimate
the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings.
In addition, the timing of the final resolution of these proceedings is
uncertain. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include
judgments against the Company or settlements that could require substantial
payments by the Company, which could have a material adverse impact on the
Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

  II. Other Litigation and Claims

     In addition to commitments and obligations in the ordinary course of
business, the Company is subject to various claims, other pending and potential
legal actions for product liability and other damages, investigations



relating to governmental laws and regulations and other matters arising out of
the normal conduct of the Company's business. These include:

     A. Antitrust Matters

     The Company currently is a defendant in numerous civil antitrust actions
filed since 1993 in federal and state courts by retail pharmacies. The federal
cases have been coordinated for pretrial purposes in the United States District
Court in the Northern District of Illinois and are known as MDL 997. MDL 997
consists of a consolidated class action (the "Federal Class Action") as well as
approximately 109 additional actions brought by approximately 3,500 individual
retail, chain and supermarket pharmacies (the "Individual Actions"). There are
numerous other defendants in these actions including several pharmaceutical
manufacturers and several other wholesale distributors. These cases allege, in
essence, that the defendants have violated the Sherman Act by conspiring to fix
the prices of brand name pharmaceuticals sold to plaintiffs at artificially
high, and non-competitive levels, especially as compared with the prices charged
to mail order pharmacies, managed care organizations and other institutional
buyers. On January 19, 1999, the District Court entered its written opinion and
judgment granting defendants' motion for a judgment as a matter of law. On July
13, 1999, the Seventh Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment as to the
dismissal of the claims against the wholesalers. The wholesalers' motion for
summary judgment in the Individual Actions has been granted. Plaintiffs have
appealed to the Seventh Circuit. Most of the individual cases brought by chain
stores have been settled.

     State court antitrust cases against the Company are currently pending in
California and Mississippi. The state cases are based on essentially the same
facts alleged in the Federal Class Action and Individual Actions and assert
violations of state antitrust and/or unfair competition laws. The case in
Superior Court for the State of California, City and County of San Francisco is
referred to as Coordinated Special Proceeding, Pharmaceutical Cases I, II & III.
The case is trailing MDL 997. A case filed in Santa Clara County (Paradise
Drugs, et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, et al., Case No. CV793852) was coordinated
with the case pending in San Francisco. The case in Mississippi (Montgomery Drug
Co., et al. v. The Upjohn Co., et al.) is pending in the Chancery Court of
Prentiss County Mississippi. The Chancery Court has held that the case may not
be maintained as a class action.

     In each of the cases, plaintiffs seek remedies in the form of injunctive
relief and unquantified monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs. Plaintiffs
in the California cases also seek restitution. In addition, treble damages are
sought in the Federal Class Action, the Individual Actions and the California
case, and statutory penalties of $500 per violation are sought in the
Mississippi case. The Company has entered into a judgment sharing agreement with
certain pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants, which provides generally that
the Company (together with the other wholesale distributor defendants) will be
held harmless by such pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants and will be
indemnified against the costs of adverse judgments, if any, against the
wholesaler and manufacturers in these or similar actions, in excess of $1
million in the aggregate per wholesale distributor defendant.

     B. FoxMeyer Litigation

     In January 1997, the Company and twelve pharmaceutical manufacturers (the
"Manufacturer Defendants") were named as defendants in the matter of FoxMeyer
Health Corporation vs. McKesson, et al. (Case No. 97 00311) filed in the
District Court in Dallas County, Texas ("the Texas Action"). Plaintiff (the
parent corporation of FoxMeyer Drug Company and FoxMeyer Corporation,
collectively "FoxMeyer Corporation") has alleged that, among other things, the
Company (i) defrauded Plaintiff, (ii) competed unfairly and tortiously
interfered with FoxMeyer Corporation's business operations, and (iii) conspired
with the Manufacturer Defendants, all in order to destroy FoxMeyer Corporation's
business, restrain trade and monopolize the marketplace, and allow the Company
to purchase that business at a distressed price. Plaintiff seeks relief against
all defendants in the form of compensatory damages of at least $400 million,
punitive damages, attorneys' fees and costs. The Company answered the complaint,
denying the allegations and removed the case to federal bankruptcy court in
Dallas.



     In March 1997, the Company and the Manufacturer Defendants filed a
complaint in intervention against FoxMeyer Health (now known as Avatex
Corporation) in the action filed against Avatex by the FoxMeyer Unsecured
Creditors Committee in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware. The complaint in intervention seeks declaratory relief and an order
enjoining Avatex from pursuing the Texas Action.

     In November 1998, the Delaware court granted the Company's motion for
summary judgment as to the first three counts asserted in the Texas Action on
the ground of judicial estoppel. The Company filed a renewed motion for summary
judgment on the four remaining counts of Avatex's complaint in the Texas Action
which was denied without prejudice by the Delaware court on August 9, 1999. In
addition, the Company filed cross-claims against the Trustee and debtors seeking
the same relief as sought in the Company's complaint against Avatex. Based on
the order granting summary judgment as to the first three counts, the Texas
bankruptcy court dismissed those counts with prejudice and ordered the Texas
Action remanded to state court. On November 30, 1998, the Company and the other
Defendants filed a notice of appeal to the District Court from the remand ruling
as well as the August 1997 ruling denying defendants' motion to transfer the
Texas Action to Delaware. In addition, the Company has filed a counter-claim and
cross-claim against Avatex and Messrs. Estrin, Butler and Massman in the Texas
Action, asserting various claims of misrepresentation and breach of contract.
The District Court upheld the remand order and denied as moot the appeal from
the order denying transfer. A cross-appeal by Avatex from the order dismissing
the first three counts with prejudice failed, as the District Court affirmed the
Bankruptcy Court's dismissal by order dated March 28, 2001. The Company and
several of the other defendants appealed to the Court of Appeals the ruling
upholding the order denying transfer but subsequently moved to dismiss the
appeal with prejudice, which motion was granted and the appeal was dismissed on
October 4, 1999. As a result, the Texas Action is now pending in Texas state
court, and the parties presently are engaged in discovery on the merits of the
various claims asserted in the Texas Action.

     C. Product Liability Litigation

     The Company has been named as a defendant, or has received from customers
tenders of defense, in fifteen pending cases alleging injury due to the diet
drug combination of fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine and phentermine. All of the
cases are pending in the state courts of California, Nebraska and New Jersey.
The Company's tender of the cases to the manufacturers of the drugs has been
accepted and the manufacturer is paying for counsel and fully indemnifying the
Company for judgments or settlements arising from its distribution of the
manufacturer's products.

     Certain subsidiaries of the Company (i.e. MGM and RedLine, collectively the
"Subsidiaries") are two of the defendants in approximately ninety cases in which
plaintiffs claim that they were injured due to exposure, over many years, to the
latex proteins in gloves manufactured by numerous manufacturers and distributed
by a number of distributors, including the Subsidiaries. Efforts to resolve
tenders of defense to their suppliers are continuing and a tentative final
agreement has been reached with one major supplier. The Subsidiaries' insurers
are providing coverage for these cases, subject to the applicable deductibles.

     There is one remaining state court class action in South Carolina filed
against MGM on behalf of all health care workers in that state who suffered
accidental needle sticks that exposed them to potentially contaminated bodily
fluids, arising from MGM's distribution of allegedly defective syringes. MGM's
suppliers of the syringes are also named defendants in this action. The tender
of all cases has been accepted by the two major suppliers. By this acceptance,
these suppliers are paying for separate distributors' counsel and have agreed to
fully indemnify the Company for any judgments in these cases arising from its
distribution of their products.

     The Company, along with 134 other companies, has been named in a lawsuit
brought by the Lemelson Medical, Educational & Research Foundation ("the
Foundation") alleging that the Company and its subsidiaries are infringing seven
(7) U.S. patents relating to common bar code scanning technology and its use for
the automated management and control of product inventory, warehousing,
distribution and point-of-sale transactions. The Foundation seeks to enter into
a license agreement with the Company, the lump sum fee for



which would be based upon a fraction of a percent of the Company's overall
revenues over the past ten years. Due to the pendency of earlier litigation
brought against the Foundation attacking the validity of the patents at issue,
the court has stayed the action until the conclusion of the earlier case. The
Company is assessing its potential exposure and evaluating the Foundations'
claim with the assistance of expert patent counsel, after which it will
determine an appropriate course of action.

     D. Environmental Matters

     Primarily as a result of the operation of its former chemical businesses,
which were divested in fiscal 1987, the Company is involved in various matters
pursuant to environmental laws and regulations:

     The Company has received claims and demands from governmental agencies
relating to investigative and remedial action purportedly required to address
environmental conditions alleged to exist at five sites where the Company (or
entities acquired by the Company) formerly conducted operations; and the
Company, by administrative order or otherwise, has agreed to take certain
actions at those sites, including soil and groundwater remediation.

     The current estimate (determined by the Company's environmental staff, in
consultation with outside environmental specialists and counsel) of the upper
limit of the Company's range of reasonably possible remediation costs for these
five sites is approximately $13 million, net of approximately $1.5 million which
third parties have agreed to pay in settlement or which the Company expects,
based either on agreements or nonrefundable contributions which are ongoing, to
be contributed by third parties. The $13 million is expected to be paid out
between April 2001 and March 2029 and is included in the Company's recorded
environmental liabilities at March 31, 2001.

     In addition, the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the "Superfund" law or its state law
equivalent) for environmental assessment and cleanup costs as the result of the
Company's alleged disposal of hazardous substances at 21 sites. With respect to
each of these sites, numerous other PRPs have similarly been designated and,
while the current state of the law potentially imposes joint and several
liability upon PRPs, as a practical matter costs of these sites are typically
shared with other PRPs. The Company's estimated liability at those 21 PRP sites
is approximately $1.5 million. The aggregate settlements and costs paid by the
Company in Superfund matters to date has not been significant. The $1.5 million
is included in the Company's recorded environmental liabilities at March 31,
2001.

     The potential costs to the Company related to environmental matters is
uncertain due to such factors as: the unknown magnitude of possible pollution
and cleanup costs; the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and
regulations and their interpretations; the timing, varying costs and
effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies; the determination of the
Company's liability in proportion to other PRPs; and the extent, if any, to
which such costs are recoverable from insurance or other parties.

     Except as specifically stated above with respect to the litigation matters
summarized under "Accounting Litigation" (section I, above), management
believes, based on current knowledge and the advice of the Company's counsel,
that the outcome of the litigation and governmental proceedings discussed in
this Item 3 will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the three months ended March 31,
2001.



                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table sets forth information regarding the executive officers
of the Company, including their principal occupations during the past five
years. The number of years of service with the Company includes service with
predecessor companies (including McKesson).

     There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or
directors of the Company. The executive officers are chosen annually to serve
until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual
meeting of stockholders and until their successors are elected and have
qualified, or until death, resignation or removal, whichever is sooner.





                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     (a) Market Information

     The principal market on which the Company's common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange. The Company's common stock is also traded on the
Pacific Exchange, Inc. High and low prices for the common stock by quarter are
included in Financial Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements,
"Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)," appearing on pages F-70 to F-72
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     (b) Holders

     The number of record holders of the Company's common stock at March 31,
2001 was approximately 16,000.

     (c) Dividends

     Dividend information is included in Financial Note 19 to the consolidated
financial statements, "Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)," appearing
on pages F-70 to F-72 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Selected financial data is presented in the Five-Year Highlights on pages
F-2 to F-5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

     Management's discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition
and results of operations is presented in the Financial Review on pages F-6 to
F-29 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Information required by this item is included in the Financial Review on
page F-24 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data appear on pages F-31 to F-72 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to Directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference from the Company's 2001 Proxy Statement (the "Proxy Statement").
Certain information relating to Executive Officers of the Company appears on
page 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information with respect to this
item required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
from the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information with respect to certain transactions with management is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits



     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

         The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the three months
         ended March 31, 2001:

          1. Form 8-K

           Date of Report: January 11, 2001
           Date Filed: January 11, 2001

             Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure

               The Company announced it had filed an action against the New York
          State Common Retirement Fund, Inc., individually, and as a
          representative of a class of former HBO & Company ("HBOC")
          shareholders who exchanged their HBOC shares for McKesson shares in
          the 1999 acquisition of HBOC.



          2. Form 8-K

           Date of Report: February 26, 2001
           Date Filed: March 1, 2001

             Item 5. Other Events

                McKesson HBOC, Inc. (the "Company") announced that John H.
          Hammergren, Co-President and Co-CEO of the Company, will become
          President and CEO of the Company effective April 1, 2001. The Company
          further announced the restructuring of its iMcKesson business unit.
          David L. Mahoney, currently Co-CEO of the Company will leave the
          Company and resign from its Board of Directors.



                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OF 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                          MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

Dated: May 31, 2001                       By      /s/ WILLIAM R. GRABER
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     William R. Graber
                                              Senior Vice President and Chief
                                                     Financial Officer

     PURSUANT ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:





                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                 SUPPLEMENTARY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SCHEDULE
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



- ---------------



(3) Includes charges of $161.1 million for customer settlements (forgiveness of
    accounts receivable, customer credits and refunds) resulting from software
    and services issues associated with pre-July 1999 Health Care Information
    Technology contracts.

(4) Includes charges of $68.5 million for a change in estimate of receivable
    allowance requirements, $72.6 million for customer settlements (forgiveness
    of accounts receivable, customer credits and refunds) associated with
    discontinued product lines and $7.7 million for uncollectible unbilled
    receivables primarily in the Health Care Information Technology segment.

(5) Includes charges of $70.0 million for Health Care Information segment bad
    debts, disputed amounts and customer allowances.



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX











- ---------------
Footnotes to Exhibit Index:

 (1) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to
     McKesson's Form S-4 Registration Statement No. 333-67299 filed on November
     27, 1998.

 (2) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K dated January 14, 1999.

 (3) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

 (4) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Form S-8
     Registration Statement No. 333-70501 filed on January 12, 1999.

 (5) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Quarterly
     Report on for 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999.

 (6) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 3 to the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on October 27, 1994.

 (7) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

 (8) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997.

 (9) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the
     Company's Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-26433 filed on June 18,
     1997.

(10) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Form S-3
     Registration Statement No. 333-26433 filed on May 2, 1997.

(11) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1995.

(12) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Form S-8
     Registration Statement No. 333-71917 filed on February 5, 1999.

(13) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to HBOC's Form S-8
     Registration Statement No. 33-67300 filed on August 12, 1993.



(14) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999.

(15) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K dated February 1, 2000.

(16) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2000.



                       CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                                    CONTENTS



                                       F-1


                              FIVE-YEAR HIGHLIGHTS

                            CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS



- ---------------
 (1) Includes the results of the FoxMeyer Corporation pharmaceutical
     distribution business ("FoxMeyer") from the acquisition date of November 8,
     1996 and of McKesson General Medical Corporation ("MGM") from the
     acquisition date of February 21, 1997.

 (2) Excludes other income.

 (3) Revenues less cost of sales; fiscal 2000 and 1999 include $0.8 million and
     $1.2 million, respectively, of Health Care Supply Management segment
     charges for restructuring, asset impairments and other operating items
     representing 0.002% and 0.004% of fiscal 2000 and 1999 revenues,
     respectively.

 (4) Includes Health Care Supply Management segment charges for asset
     impairments, severance and facility closing costs of $28.9 million
     (including $18.2 million for the restructure of the former iMcKesson
     segment), partially offset by a $7.8 million gain of the liquidation of an
     investment and Health Care Information Technology segment charges of $161.1
     million for customer settlements and $134.5 million for asset impairments,
     severance and exit-related costs primarily related to the restructure of
     the former iMcKesson business, 0.8% of revenues in the aggregate, $239.4
     million after-tax.

                                       F-2


 (5) Includes Health Care Supply Management segment charges of $40.0 million for
     asset impairments, accounts receivable reserves and customer settlements
     primarily related to a prior year implementation of a contract system, and
     $2.9 million in severance and exit-related charges primarily associated
     with segment staff reductions, partially offset by income of $8.1 million
     related to reductions in prior year restructuring accruals. Also includes
     Health Care Information Technology segment charges of $239.8 million for
     asset impairments, customer accounts receivable, severance and exit costs
     primarily associated with product streamlining and reorganization, $61.8
     million for accounts receivable and customer settlements, $1.5 million for
     the write-off of purchased in-process technology, partially offset by
     income of $7.0 million related to a reduction in prior year accruals for
     acquisition-related activities, 0.9% of revenues in the aggregate, $198.7
     million after-tax.

 (6) Includes $214.3 million of Health Care Supply Management and $181.6 million
     of Health Care Information Technology segment charges for transaction
     costs, costs associated with employee benefits, primarily related to change
     of control provisions, employee severance, asset impairment write-downs,
     restructuring, integration and affiliation costs incurred, and system
     installation costs associated primarily with acquisitions, 1.3% of revenues
     in the aggregate, $285.8 million after-tax.

 (7) Includes $16.7 million of Health Care Supply Management segment charges for
     the terminated merger with AmeriSource Health Corporation ("AmeriSource")
     and $44.1 million in costs associated primarily with the integration and
     rationalization of acquisitions; and, $35.3 million of Health Care
     Information Technology segment charges related to the acquisitions of
     AMISYS Managed Care Systems, Inc. and Enterprise Systems, Inc., 0.4% of
     revenues in the aggregate, $65.3 million after-tax.

 (8) Includes Health Care Supply Management segment charges of $98.8 million for
     restructuring, asset impairment and other operating items, $48.2 million
     for the write-off of purchased in-process technology related to the
     acquisition of Automated Healthcare, Inc., and $6.4 million related to the
     merger of Access Health, Inc. and Informed Access Systems Inc. and Health
     Care Information Technology segment charges of $68.1 million related to the
     acquisition of CyCare Systems, Inc., Management Software, Inc. and GMIS
     Inc., 1.3% of revenues in the aggregate, $156.9 million after-tax.

 (9) In addition to the items discussed in Note 4 above, includes Corporate
     segment charges of $33.9 million for asset impairments, severance and
     facility closing costs related to the restructure of the iMcKesson
     business, $105.2 million for asset impairments of investments and $2.5
     million in legal fees incurred in connection with the Company's earlier
     restatement of prior years' financial results and resulting pending
     litigation. These items represent 0.3% of revenues in the aggregate, $86.3
     million after-tax.

(10) In addition to items described in Note 5 above, includes Corporate segment
     net gains of $259.2 from the exchange and subsequent sale and donation of
     equity investments, partially offset by charges of $55.8 million for
     accounting, legal and other costs incurred in connection with the Company's
     earlier restatement of prior years' financial results and resulting pending
     litigation, costs associated with former employees and other acquisition
     related costs. These items represent 0.6% of revenues in the aggregate,
     $118.3 million after-tax.

(11) Includes a $4.6 million tax settlement.

(12) Includes an after-tax loss reflecting an adjustment to the gain recorded on
     the fiscal 2000 sale of McKesson Water Products Company ("Water Products
     business").

(13) Includes after-tax income from the Water Products business of $24.4
     million, an after-tax charge of $1.2 million for increases in environmental
     costs for sites associated with the discontinued chemical operations and a
     $515.9 million after-tax gain on sale of the Water Products business.

(14) Includes after-tax gain on sale of Armor All Products Corporation ("Armor
     All") of $120.2 million.

(15) Based on net income.

(16) Dilutive securities are excluded in the computation of diluted earnings per
     share in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999 due to their antidilutive effect.

                                       F-3


                              FIVE-YEAR HIGHLIGHTS

                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL POSITION



- ---------------
(1) Includes the results of FoxMeyer from the acquisition date of November 8,
    1996 and of MGM from the acquisition date of February 21, 1997.

(2) Based on year-end balances and sales or cost of sales assuming major
    acquisitions occurred at beginning of year and a 360-day year.

(3) Total debt includes all interest-bearing debt and capitalized lease
    obligations.

(4) Capital employed consists of total debt, convertible preferred securities of
    subsidiary trust and stockholders' equity.

(5) Ratio computed as net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents and
    marketable securities) to net capital employed (capital employed less cash
    and cash equivalents and marketable securities).

(6) Dividends per common share amounts do not reflect the effects of poolings of
    interest transactions.

(7) Stockholders' equity divided by year-end common shares outstanding.

                                       F-4


                    FIVE-YEAR HIGHLIGHTS--SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

                            CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS



- ---------------
(1) Includes the results of FoxMeyer from the acquisition date of November 8,
    1996 and of MGM from the acquisition date of February 21, 1997.

(2) Income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense-net of
    corporate interest income, taxes and dividends on preferred securities of
    subsidiary trust.

(3) Unusual items include those which management believes are either one-time
    occurrences and/or events which are not related to normal, on-going
    operations or represent charges that are in excess of normal/ historical
    amounts. See Notes 3 to 11 on pages F-2 and F-3.

(4) Income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense-net of
    corporate interest income, income taxes and amortization of intangibles.

(5) Capital employed less cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and
    intangibles (including accounts associated with discontinued operations).

(6) Earnings (including income from discontinued operations) before interest
    expense-net of corporate interest income, income taxes and amortization of
    intangibles divided by average committed capital (capital employed less cash
    and cash equivalents, marketable securities and intangibles).

(7) EBITA and EBIT are not intended to represent cash flow from operations, or
    alternatives to net income, each as defined by accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, the
    measures of EBITA and EBIT presented herein may not be comparable to other
    similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company believes that
    EBITA and EBIT are standard measures commonly reported and widely used by
    analysts, investors and other interested parties operating in the Company's
    industries. Accordingly, this information has been disclosed herein to
    permit a more complete comparative analysis of the Company's operating
    performance relative to other companies in similar industries.

                                       F-5


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                                FINANCIAL REVIEW

GENERAL

     Management's discussion and analysis, referred to as the Financial Review,
is intended to assist in the understanding and assessment of significant changes
and trends related to the results of operations and financial position of
McKesson HBOC, Inc. ("McKesson HBOC" or the "Company"), together with its
subsidiaries. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with
the Company's consolidated financial statements and accompanying Financial
Notes.

FACTORS AFFECTING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     In addition to historical information, management's discussion and analysis
includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Some of
the forward-looking statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words
such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks",
"approximately", "intends", "plans", or "estimates", or the negative of these
words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends,
strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those projected. These include, but are
not limited to, the factors discussed under "Additional Factors That May Affect
Future Results" of this "Financial Review."

     These and other risks and uncertainties are described herein or in the
Company's other public documents. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date
hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of
any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

     The Company conducts its operations through two operating business
segments: Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information Technology.
The Health Care Supply Management segment includes the Company's U.S.
pharmaceutical, health care products and medical-surgical supplies distribution
businesses. U.S. Health Care Supply Management operations also include the
manufacture and sale of automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems for
hospitals and retail pharmacists, medical management services and tools to
payors and providers, marketing and other support services to pharmaceutical
manufacturers, consulting and outsourcing services to pharmacies, and
distribution of first-aid products to industrial and commercial customers. In
addition, Health Care Supply Management includes the Company's international
distribution operations (including operations in Canada and an equity interest
in a Mexican distribution business). The Health Care Information Technology
segment delivers enterprise-wide patient care, clinical, financial, supply
chain, managed care and strategic management software solutions, as well as
networking technologies, including wireless capabilities, electronic commerce,
outsourcing and other services to health care organizations throughout the U.S.
and certain foreign countries.

ACQUISITIONS

  Fiscal Year 2001 Acquisitions and Investments

     In April 2000, the Company and three other health care product distributors
announced an agreement to form the New Health Exchange (subsequently renamed
"Health Nexis"). Health Nexis is an Internet-based company focused on
information systems and other technology solutions to streamline communication,
processing and management of product and contract data across the health care
supply chain. The Company accounts for its 34% interest in Health Nexis under
the equity method of accounting. In fiscal 2001, the

                                       F-6

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

Company invested $10.8 million in Health Nexis and recorded equity in the losses
of Health Nexis of $5.0 million.

     In July 2000, the Company completed the acquisition of MediVation, Inc., a
provider of an automated web-based system for physicians to communicate with
patients online, for approximately $24 million in cash, $14 million in Company
common stock and the assumption of $6 million of employee stock incentives. A
charge of $2.1 million was recorded in the second quarter to write off the
portion of the purchase price allocated to in-process technology for which
technological feasibility had not been established as of the acquisition date
and for which there were no alternative uses. The Company received an
independent valuation that utilized a discounted cash flow methodology by
product line to assist in valuing in-process and existing technologies as of the
acquisition date. In connection with the restructure of the Company's former
iMcKesson business in February, 2001 and based on the utilization of a
discounted cash flow methodology, the Company recorded an impairment loss for
the unamortized goodwill and intangibles balance as of March 31, 2001.

     In fiscal 2001, the Company also completed a number of smaller acquisitions
in the Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information Technology
segments.

  Fiscal Year 2000 Acquisitions

     In November 1999, the Company acquired Abaton.com, a provider of
internet-based clinical applications for use by physician practices, pharmacy
benefit managers, benefit payors, laboratories and pharmacies, for approximately
$95 million in cash and the assumption of approximately $8 million of employee
stock incentives. A charge of $1.5 million was recorded to write off the portion
of the purchase price of Abaton.com allocated to in-process technology for which
technological feasibility had not been established as of the acquisition date
and for which there were no alternative uses. The Company received an
independent valuation that utilized a discounted cash flow methodology by
product line to assist in valuing in-process and existing technologies as of the
acquisition date. In connection with the restructure of the Company's former
iMcKesson business in February, 2001 and based on the utilization of a current
discounted cash flow methodology, the Company recorded an impairment loss for
the unamortized goodwill and intangibles balance as of March 31, 2001.

     In fiscal 2000, the Company also made several smaller acquisitions and
investments in the Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information
Technology segments.

  Fiscal Year 1999 Acquisitions

     On January 12, 1999, McKesson Corporation ("McKesson"), completed the
acquisition of HBO & Company ("HBOC"), a leading health care information
technology company, by exchanging 177 million shares of McKesson common stock
for all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of HBOC. Each share
of HBOC common stock was exchanged for 0.37 of a share of McKesson common stock
(the "Exchange Ratio"). McKesson was renamed McKesson HBOC, Inc. The transaction
was structured as a tax-free reorganization and was accounted for as a pooling
of interests.

     In addition, the Company completed several acquisitions in fiscal 1999 in
the Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information Technology
segments that were accounted for under the pooling of interests method as
follows:

     In August 1998, the Company acquired Hawk Medical Supply, Inc., a
distributor of medical-surgical supplies, for approximately 2 million shares of
Company common stock.

                                       F-7

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

     Also, in August 1998, the Company acquired J. Knipper and Company, a
provider of direct mail, fulfillment and sales support services, including
sample distribution to physician and pharmaceutical company sales
representatives, for approximately 300,000 shares of Company common stock.

     In September 1998, the Company acquired Automated Prescription Systems,
Inc., a manufacturer of automated prescription filling and dispensing systems,
for approximately 1.4 million shares of Company common stock.

     In October 1998, the Company acquired US Servis, Inc., a professional
management company that provides outsourcing services for physician delivery
systems and hospital business offices, for the equivalent, after application of
the Exchange Ratio, of approximately 700,000 shares of Company common stock.

     Also in October 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of IMNET
Systems, Inc., a provider of electronic information and document management
solutions for the health care industry, for the equivalent of approximately 3.6
million shares of Company common stock and 0.6 million Company stock options.

     In December 1998, the Company acquired Access Health, Inc., a provider of
clinically based care management programs and health care information services,
for the equivalent of approximately 12.7 million shares of Company common stock

     In fiscal 1999, the Company completed the acquisitions of the following
companies in its Health Care Supply Management segment, each accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting:

     In September 1998, the Company acquired MedManagement, a pharmacy
management, purchasing, consulting and information services company, for
approximately $38 million in cash. The acquisition was funded with short-term
borrowings. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net
assets acquired of $41 million is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
20 years.

     In November 1998, the Company acquired RedLine Health Care Corporation
("RedLine") a distributor of medical supplies and services to the extended-care
industry, including long-term-care and home-care sites for approximately $233
million in cash. The acquisition was funded with short-term borrowings. The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired of
$149 million is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years.

DIVESTITURE

     In February 2000, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, McKesson
Water Products Company for approximately $1.1 billion and recognized an
after-tax gain of $515.9 million. The Water Products business has been
classified as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.

                                       F-8

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

FINANCIAL RESULTS

     The results of continuing operations include the following:



  Fiscal 2001

     Fiscal 2001 after-tax income from continuing operations before unusual
items was $283.0 million, a 7% increase over the prior year's income from
continuing operations of $265.0 million. Fiscal 2001 results reflect revenue and
operating margin growth in the Health Care Supply Management segment partially
offset by declines in revenues and operating profits in the Health Care
Information Technology segment.

  Fiscal 2000

     Fiscal 2000 after-tax income from continuing operations before unusual
items was $265.0 million, a 23% decline from the prior year's income from
continuing operations before unusual items of $346.4 million. Fiscal 2000
results reflect revenue and operating profit declines in the Health Care
Information Technology segment, modest operating profit growth in the Health
Care Supply Management segment, and higher financing costs to support revenue
growth in the Health Care Supply Management segment.

  Fiscal 1999

     Fiscal 1999 after-tax income from continuing operations before unusual
items was $346.4 million, a 3% increase over the prior year's income from
continuing operations before unusual items of $335.9 million. Fiscal 1999
results reflect revenue and operating margin growth and the positive impact of
acquisitions in the Health Care Supply Management segment offset, in part, by a
decline in Health Care Information Technology segment operating results.

UNUSUAL ITEMS

     In fiscal 2001, the Company incurred charges for asset impairments,
severance and exit costs primarily associated with the restructure of the
Company's former iMcKesson business segment. In fiscal 2001 and 2000, the
Company incurred charges associated with product streamlining and reorganization
in its Health Care Information Technology segment including, provision for
customer settlements in 2001, and asset impairments, customer settlements and
severance in 2000. In both years, the Company recorded gains and losses for
certain equity investments and costs incurred in connection with the
Investigation (as defined

                                       F-9

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

below), the restatement of historical (pre-acquisition) consolidated financial
statements and the resulting pending securities litigation. In fiscal 2000 and
1999, the Company incurred charges for acquisition-related activities including
transaction costs, employee benefit costs, severance, as well as costs for
consolidation of facilities and administrative processes and certain operating
charges.

     For the purposes of discussing the results of operations, the items
described above are referred to as "unusual items" in the Financial Review. The
results of operations excluding "unusual items" are not intended to represent
income from operations, or alternatives to net income, each as defined by
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In
addition, the charges included as "unusual items" presented herein may not be
comparable to other similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Management believes, however, that the discussion of the results of operations
excluding such unusual items is the most informative representation of
recurring, non-transactional operating results. Management believes that these
items either represent one-time occurrences and/or events which are not related
to normal, ongoing operations or represent charges that are in excess of
normal/historical operating amounts.

     The unusual items in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 are as follows:



FISCAL 2001 UNUSUAL ITEMS

     In fiscal 2001, the Company recorded net pre-tax charges for unusual items
totaling $458.3 million including $21.1 million in the Health Care Supply
Management segment, $295.6 million in the Health Care Information Technology
segment and $141.6 million in the Corporate segment. Following is a description
of these items in fiscal 2001:

  Restatement-Related Costs Incurred

     In April 1999, following the January 1999 acquisition of HBOC, the Company
discovered improper accounting practices at HBOC. In July 1999, the Audit
Committee of the Company's Board of Directors

                                       F-10

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

completed an investigation into such matters (the "Investigation"), which
resulted in the previously reported restatement of the Company's historical
consolidated financial statements related to HBOC (pre-acquisition) in fiscal
1999, 1998 and 1997. In fiscal 2001, the Company incurred legal fees totaling
$2.5 million, in connection with the pending securities litigation arising out
of the restatement.

  (Gain) Loss on Investments

     The Company recorded an other than temporary impairment loss of $105.6
million on its WebMD warrants and other equity and venture capital investments
as a result of significant declines in the market values of these investments.
The Company also recorded a $7.8 million gain on the liquidation of another
investment.

  Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Customer Settlements

     In May 2000, the Company announced the formation of a new business unit,
iMcKesson, to focus on healthcare applications using the Internet and other
emerging technologies. iMcKesson included selected net assets from the former
e-Health, Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information Technology
segments and fiscal 2001 acquisitions of strategic investments and businesses.

     In February 2001, the Company announced the restructuring of the iMcKesson
business unit by moving responsibility for iMcKesson's medical management
business to the Health Care Supply Management segment and the physician services
business to the Health Care Information Technology segment. In connection with
the assessment of these businesses, management shut down certain iMcKesson
operations. The Company wrote down goodwill and intangibles totaling $116.2
million arising from the acquisitions of Abaton.com and MediVation, Inc., based
upon an updated analysis of discounted cash flows. The Company also recorded
$29.8 million in non-cash asset impairments including $23.1 million for the
write-down of equity investments whose market values had significantly declined,
$5.2 million in capitalized software costs and $1.5 million in other fixed
assets. In addition, the Company recorded $9.1 million in exit-related costs
including $6.0 million for non-cancelable services directly related to
discontinued products, $1.5 million for estimated claims resulting from the
abandonment of products no longer core to its business and $1.6 million in other
exit-related costs.

     In the second quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company reviewed the operations
and cost structure of its medical management business resulting in the planned
closure of a call center and a workforce reduction and recorded $0.2 million in
charges for exit-related activities.

     In the third quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company closed a pharmaceutical
distribution center and recorded $0.7 million in asset impairments and $0.5
million in charges for exit-related activities.

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company reviewed the operations
and cost structure of its pharmaceutical services business resulting in the
planned closures of two offices. The Company recorded $1.4 million in asset
impairments and $1.6 million in exit-related costs primarily related to
remaining lease obligations subsequent to termination of operations.

     The Company also reduced prior year reserves for exit-related activities by
$1.3 million.

     In addition, the Company's Health Care Information Technology segment
recorded a $161.1 million charge for customer settlements (forgiveness of
accounts receivable, customer credits and refunds) associated with pre-July 1999
software contracts. These customer settlements generally relate to product
replacements as well as requirements for certain customers to upgrade hardware
and software to accommodate new product releases.

                                       F-11

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

  Severance

     The Company recorded severance costs totaling $29.0 million related to the
restructure of the former iMcKesson business, $1.0 million in the Health Care
Supply Management segment, $3.3 million in the Health Care Information
Technology segment and $24.7 million in the Corporate segment. The severance
charges relate to the termination of approximately 220 employees, primarily in
sales, service and administration functions.

     The Company also recorded severance costs totaling $8.5 million in the
aggregate related to workforce reductions in the Health Care Supply Management
segment associated with the closure of a pharmaceutical distribution center,
closure of a medical management call center, consolidation of medical-surgical
customer service centers, closures of facilities in the pharmaceutical services
business and staff reductions in the pharmaceutical management business. The
fiscal 2001 severance charges relate to the termination of approximately 360
employees, primarily in sales, service, administration and distribution center
functions. In addition, the Company reduced prior year severance reserves by
$0.9 million.

     In connection with the severance charges described above, $3.2 million was
a non-cash charge, severance of $2.4 million was paid in fiscal 2001, $12.4
million will be paid in fiscal 2002 and the balance of $19.5 million, primarily
pension benefits, will be paid in fiscal 2003 and thereafter.

     As a result of the previously discussed restructuring activities, future
operating results and cash flows will be impacted. Development and support
activities for certain discontinued products associated with the former
iMcKesson business will be phased out within twelve months. Although future
revenues associated with the discontinued products will be reduced or
eliminated, the Company does not anticipate they will materially impact the
company's future operating results or cash flows. The Company anticipates that
goodwill amortization expense will be approximately $20 million lower in fiscal
2002 as a result of the Abaton.com and MediVation, Inc. goodwill and intangibles
write downs. In addition, the Company anticipates reduced product development
expenses as a result of terminating certain product licensing agreements and
gradual reductions in payroll expenses and occupancy costs as the former
iMcKesson operations wind down. Closure of the medical management call center is
not anticipated to significantly impact future revenues (customers will be
serviced out of the remaining call centers) but payroll cost savings are
anticipated. Closure of the pharmaceutical distribution center, pharmaceutical
services facilities and consolidations of the medical-surgical customer service
centers are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's fiscal 2002
operating results.

  Other Merger-Related Items

     The Company recorded a charge of $2.1 million in the Information Technology
segment to write off the portion of the purchase price of MediVation, Inc.
allocated to purchased in-process technology for which feasibility had not been
established as of the acquisition date.

FISCAL 2000 UNUSUAL ITEMS

     In fiscal 2000, the Company recorded net pre-tax charges for unusual items
totaling $127.5 million including $34.8 million in the Health Care Supply
Management segment, $296.1 million in the Health Care Information Technology
segment, and $203.4 million income in Corporate. Following is a description of
these items in fiscal 2000:

  Restatement-Related Costs Incurred

     In fiscal 2000, the Company incurred costs in connection with the
previously discussed Investigation, the restatement of the historical
consolidated financial statements and the resulting pending litigation, and
recorded charges of $18.9 million for accounting and legal fees and other costs.
                                       F-12

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

  Net Gains on the Exchange and Sale of Equity Investments

     The Company recorded gains on the exchange of the Company's WebMD common
shares and warrants for Healtheon/WebMD (subsequently renamed WebMD) common
shares and warrants that were recognized upon the November 11, 1999 merger of
the two companies. Subsequently in fiscal 2000, the Company donated 250,000
WebMD shares to the McKesson HBOC Foundation and sold the remaining common
shares. As a result of these transactions, the Company recognized gains related
to the investment in WebMD of $248.7 million of which $155.3 million was
realized. The remaining gain of $93.4 million which resulted from the November
11, 1999 exchange of warrants, had not been realized as of March 31, 2000. The
estimated fair value of the warrants declined from $93.4 million as of November
11, 1999 to $32.3 million as of March 31, 2000, resulting in an unrealized loss
of $61.1 million. In fiscal 2001, the estimated fair value of the warrants
declined further and the Company recognized a loss (see Fiscal 2001 Unusual
Items). In addition, other equity investments were sold during the year at a
gain of $20.3 million, and a $9.8 million charge was recorded to reflect the
donation of the WebMD shares to the McKesson HBOC Foundation.

  Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Customer Settlements

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company completed an assessment
of the Health Care Information Technology's business and product portfolio. This
resulted in the decision to reorganize the business and to discontinue
overlapping or nonstrategic product offerings. The Company recorded asset
impairments of $232.5 million. These included charges to write off $49.1 million
of capitalized product development costs, $39.3 million of purchased software
and $50.7 million of goodwill associated with discontinued product lines based
upon an analysis of discounted cash flows. In addition, a $74.1 million reserve
was recorded for customer settlements attributable to the discontinued product
lines. The Company also recorded a $9.4 million loss on the disposition of a
non-core foreign operation, a $7.7 million charge for uncollectible unbilled
receivables and a $2.2 million charge for obsolete equipment associated with the
discontinued products. Substantially all of these charges were non-cash asset
write-offs except for the customer settlements.

     In addition, a charge of $0.6 million was recorded for costs to prepare
facilities for disposal, lease costs and property taxes required subsequent to
termination of operations and other exit-related activities.

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company reviewed the operations
and cost structure of the Health Care Supply Management's medical-surgical
business. This resulted in the planned closure of a sales office and a workforce
reduction. The Company recorded $0.6 million in charges for exit-related
activities. Also in fiscal 2000, the Company reassessed prior years'
restructuring plans resulting in the decision to retain one of the six
pharmaceutical distribution centers identified for closure in fiscal 1999 and to
reduce the number of medical-surgical distribution center closures. In addition,
the Company announced and completed the closure of one additional pharmaceutical
distribution center in fiscal 2000. The Company recorded income of $6.9 million
as a result of reducing prior year accruals for exit-related costs, offset in
part, by additional asset impairments of $1.5 million. The Company also recorded
asset impairments for its medical-management business of $0.2 million for
obsolete equipment associated with discontinued products.

  Severance

     In fiscal 2000, the Company completed the closures of three pharmaceutical
distribution centers, including the additional distribution center mentioned
above. In addition, the realignment of the sales organization was completed and
certain back office functions were eliminated. This resulted in the termination
of approximately 200 employees and the payment of $3.6 million in severance.
Also, the Company completed the closures of three medical-surgical distribution
centers and paid $1.0 million in severance to approximately 100 employees who
were terminated in fiscal 1999 and 2000. The Company plans to continue these
closure activities throughout fiscal 2002.
                                       F-13

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

     The Company recorded severance costs totaling $6.2 million in the aggregate
related to workforce reductions in the Health Care Information Technology
segment associated with product streamlining and reorganization and in the
Health Care Supply Management segment associated with distribution facility
consolidations. This charge was offset, in part, by a $2.0 million reduction in
prior year severance reserves. The fiscal 2000 severance charges relate to the
termination of approximately 500 employees, primarily in product development and
support, administration and distribution center functions. In fiscal 2001, the
Company paid severance of $4.9 million and reduced previously recorded reserves
by $0.9 million. The remaining balance will be paid in fiscal 2002.

  Other Merger-Related Items

     The Company recorded a charge of $1.5 million to write off the portion of
the purchase price of Abaton.com allocated to purchased in-process technology
for which feasibility had not been established as of the acquisition date. The
Company also recorded a $1.3 million charge for the impairment of a note
receivable from a former stockholder of an acquired company and reversed $6.9
million of accruals booked in prior years for estimated merger-related costs.

     Corporate and other includes a charge of $3.7 million related to additional
costs incurred and paid associated with the acquisition of HBOC.

  Costs Associated With Former Employees

     In fiscal 2000, the Company recorded charges of $23.8 million for severance
and benefit costs resulting from changes in executive management made in the
first quarter. The charges were based on the terms of employment contracts in
place with these executives. $2.8 million was paid in fiscal 2000 and $2.1
million was paid in fiscal 2001. The Company estimates that $3.7 million will be
paid in fiscal 2002 and the balance, primarily pension benefits, will be paid
thereafter.

  Other Operating Items

     Other operating items include charges of $61.8 million in the Health Care
Information Technology segment for accounts receivable and customer settlements,
a $1.1 million non-cash charge for the write-off of internal-use computer
software that was abandoned and a $1.2 million charge related to the settlement
of a software patent infringement claim that was paid during the year.

     The Health Care Supply Management segment recorded a charge of $31.5
million for asset impairments and receivables related primarily to a prior year
implementation of a contract system, and a $6.7 million charge for customer
accounts receivable in the medical management business.

     Corporate includes non-cash charges of $7.7 million for impairment of notes
receivable from former employees and $1.7 million for costs associated with
employee-retention following the announcement of the Investigation.

FISCAL 1999 UNUSUAL ITEMS

     In fiscal 1999, the Company recorded pre-tax charges for unusual items of
$214.3 million in the Health Care Supply Management segment and $181.6 million
in the Health Care Information Technology segment, $395.9 million in the
aggregate. Following is a description of these items in fiscal 1999:

  Transaction Costs

     Total unusual items include $84.6 million of transaction costs incurred in
connection with the acquisitions described above, primarily consisting of
professional fees such as investment banking, legal and accounting fees. This
amount includes $6.6 million of transaction costs related to terminated
transactions of which

                                       F-14

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

$5.0 million related to the terminated merger with AmeriSource Health
Corporation. Approximately $83.6 million was paid in fiscal 1999, with a balance
of $1.0 million paid in fiscal 2000.

  Employee Benefits

     The Company incurred $88.7 million of employee benefit costs related to
acquisitions, including $39.0 million for restricted stock and stock
appreciation rights subject to change of control provisions, $37.0 million of
long-term incentive and phantom stock awards subject to change of control
provisions, $8.7 million of signing and retention bonuses, and $4.0 million of
retirement and employee benefit plan costs. Of these amounts, $36.3 million were
non-cash charges, primarily related to restricted stock, $44.1 million was paid
in fiscal 1999, $1.6 million was paid in fiscal 2000 and $3.5 million was paid
in fiscal 2001.

  Restructuring and Asset Impairments

     In fiscal 1999, the Health Care Supply Management segment identified six
distribution centers for closure, of which one distribution center was shut down
by March 31, 1999. The Company recorded a charge of $25.5 million related to
closures of the distribution centers. Of this charge, $21.7 million was required
to reduce the carrying value of facility assets to their estimated fair value
less disposal costs, and $3.8 million was related to computer hardware and
software which will no longer be used at such facilities. Fair value was
determined based on sales of similar assets, appraisals, and/or other estimates
such as discounting of estimated future cash flows. Considerable management
judgment is necessary to estimate fair values; accordingly, actual results could
vary significantly from such estimates. Also related to such closures, a charge
of $17.2 million was recorded for exit-related costs. These primarily consist of
costs to prepare facilities for disposal, lease costs and property taxes
required subsequent to termination of operations, as well as the write-off of
costs related to duplicate assets from acquired companies that do not have
future use by the Company. Of the above charges, $25.5 million were non-cash
asset write-offs. $3.9 million was paid in fiscal 1999, $2.6 million was paid in
fiscal 2000, and $2.9 million was paid in fiscal 2001. Also, in connection with
the previously discussed reassessment of this restructuring plan, the Company
reduced previously recorded exit-related reserves by $6.9 million in fiscal 2000
and by $1.3 million in fiscal 2001, and recorded charges of $1.5 million for
additional asset impairments in fiscal 2000.

     The Health Care Supply Management segment also wrote off $23.5 million of
computer hardware and software which was abandoned as the result of an
acquisition during the year.

     In connection with acquisitions in the medical management business, the
Company terminated royalty agreements at a cost of $12.0 million because
products subject to minimum royalty payments to third parties were replaced with
acquired products. In addition, the Company recorded charges of $4.3 million
primarily for the write-off of capitalized software costs.

     In connection with acquisitions made by the Health Care Information
Technology segment and its acquisition by McKesson, duplicate facilities,
products and internal systems were identified for elimination, resulting in
charges of $5.9 million, relating principally to the write-off of capitalized
costs and lease termination costs. In addition, following the HBOC Transaction,
the Company evaluated the performance of a foreign business and elected to shut
down its facility. Charges of $11.6 million were recorded, principally related
to the write-down of goodwill to fair value based on estimated discounted cash
flows. Revenues and net operating income for this foreign business were not
significant in fiscal 1999. Certain investments became impaired during fiscal
1999 and were written down by $4.3 million to their net realizable values based
primarily on estimated discounted cash flows, and other reserves of $4.1 million
were recorded to cover customer and other claims arising out of the
acquisitions. Substantially all of the above charges were non-cash asset
write-offs.

                                       F-15

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

  Severance

     Severance costs totaled $31.9 million (net of a $3.0 million reversal of
previously recorded severance obligations which were determined to be in
excess), resulting from the consolidation of acquired company operating and
corporate functions, the consolidation of existing U.S. Health Care
pharmaceutical distribution centers, and other employee terminations. The
severance charges relate to the termination of approximately 1,550 employees,
primarily in distribution centers, administration and product functions. The
Company paid severance of $12.1 million in fiscal 1999, $14.9 million in fiscal
2000 and reduced previously recorded reserves by $2.0 million in fiscal 2000.
Severance of $3.2 million was paid in 2001 and the remaining severance will be
paid in fiscal 2002 and thereafter.

  Other Merger-related Costs

     The Health Care Information Technology segment incurred costs totaling
$13.8 million in fiscal 1999 due to an acquired company which had receivables
outstanding from HBOC competitors that became uncollectible and were written off
after the HBOC Transaction.

  Acquisition-related Integration Costs

     Acquisition-related integration costs of $32.3 million consist of $1.9
million incurred for salaries and benefits of integration and affiliation team
members of the Company and $30.4 million of other direct costs associated with
the integration and rationalization of recent acquisitions in the Health Care
Supply Management and Health Care Information Technology segments.

  Other Operating Items

     Other operating items of $36.2 million consist of losses resulting from the
implementation of a contract administration system and expenses incurred for
corrective actions associated with that system.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The discussion of the financial results that follows focuses on the results
of continuing operations excluding unusual items, as management believes such
discussion is the most informative representation of recurring,
non-transactional related operating results.

                                       F-16

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

HEALTH CARE SUPPLY MANAGEMENT

     The following table identifies significant performance indicators of the
Health Care Supply Management segment:



                                       F-17

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

- ---------------
(1) Excluding sales to customers' warehouses and other income.

(2) Capital employed less cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and
    goodwill and other intangibles.

(3) Receivables and inventories net of related payables.

(4) Operating profit before amortization of intangibles divided by average
    committed capital.

(5) Operating profit divided by average capital employed.

     Over the most recent three fiscal years, the Health Care Supply Management
business has experienced internal revenue growth and growth as a result of
acquisitions. Revenue growth in this segment, excluding sales to customers'
warehouses, is as follows:



     Internal growth in Health Care Supply Management is due primarily to
increased sales volume to the retail chain and institutional customer segments.
Sales to retail customers have benefited from the Company's service offerings
and programs that focus on broad product selection, service levels, inventory
carrying cost reductions, connectivity and automation technologies. Growth with
institutional customers has benefited from the focus on reducing both product
cost and internal labor and logistics costs for the customers. Services
available include pharmaceutical distribution, medical-surgical supply
distribution, pharmaceutical dispensing automation, pharmacy outsourcing and
utilization reviews. These retail chain and institutional capabilities have
resulted in the implementation of significant long-term contracts with major
customers.



- ---------------
(1) Excluding sales to customer warehouses.

     Sales to customers' warehouses are large volume sales of pharmaceuticals to
major self-warehousing drugstore chains whereby the Company acts as an
intermediary in the order and subsequent delivery of products directly from the
manufacturer to the customers' warehouses. The growth in sales to customers'
warehouses in fiscal 2001 was due to the addition of a significant retail chain
customer and to growth from existing customers. The growth in fiscal 2000 and
1999 was primarily the result of two significant contracts with retail chains
which also provided new direct store sales growth.

     The operating profit margin increased in fiscal 2001, reflecting margin
expansion in the U.S. pharmaceutical distribution and services business due to
gross margin initiatives and productivity improvements in both back-office and
field operations and in the Canadian pharmaceutical business reflecting new
customers, sales

                                       F-18

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

growth and operational efficiencies. This impact was partially offset by a
decline in the medical management business reflecting the loss of a number of
services customers and reduced profits from the Company's 22% interest in Nadro,
a Mexican pharmaceutical distribution business. The operating profit margin
declined in fiscal 2000 from 1999 due to a decline in the gross profit margin
reflecting the competitive environment, a shift in the mix of pharmaceutical
distribution revenues to a higher proportion of chain business and somewhat
lower procurement profits as a percentage of revenues in the current year.
Procurement profits benefited in fiscal 1999 from price increases on inventory
expansion associated with new customer agreements. The decline in the gross
profit margin was offset, in part, by a lower operating expense ratio reflecting
continuing productivity improvements. The improvement in the operating expense
ratio was achieved despite higher expenses for receivable and transaction
processing related charges. Fiscal 1999 operating margins reflect higher margin
businesses resulting from acquisitions in pharmaceutical services for
manufacturers, retail and institutional automation and medical-surgical supply
distribution. In addition, expanded profitability from product procurement,
warehouse automation and efficiency improvements, and fixed cost leverage from
volume growth contributed to the margin expansion.

     The Health Care Supply Management segment uses the last-in, first-out
(LIFO) method of accounting for the majority of its inventories which results in
cost of sales that more closely reflect replacement cost than other accounting
methods, thereby mitigating the effects of inflation and deflation on operating
profit. The practice in the Health Care Supply Management distribution
businesses is to pass published price changes from suppliers on to customers.
Manufacturers generally provide the Company with price protection, which
prevents inventory losses. Price declines on many generic pharmaceutical
products in this segment in each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2001, 2000
and 1999 have moderated the effects of inflation in other product categories,
which resulted in minimal overall price changes in those fiscal years.

     Fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 capital expenditures include new systems
upgrades to distribution facilities and facility consolidations in the
pharmaceutical and medical-surgical businesses and growth in the automation and
services businesses.

     The Health Care Supply Management segment requires a substantial investment
in operating working capital (customer receivables and inventories net of
related trade payables). Operating working capital is susceptible to large
variations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and
seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity,
new customer build-up requirements and the desired level of investment
inventory. Operating working capital at March 31, 2001 was flat relative to
2000. An increase in receivables, reflecting sales growth, and inventories was
offset by a significant increase in vendor payables reflecting purchases made
late in the fiscal year and the timing of vendor payments. No accounts
receivable were sold at March 31, 2001 and 2000. Operating working capital was
significantly higher at March 31, 2000 compared to 1999. The working capital
increase primarily reflects increases in receivables and net financial
inventories (inventories net of accounts and drafts payable) resulting from
sales growth, the absence of accounts receivable sales at March 31, 2000
compared to $400.0 million of sales at March 31, 1999 and the timing of vendor
payments.

                                       F-19

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

     Significant performance indicators of the Health Care Information
Technology segment are as follows:



- ---------------
(1) Capital employed less cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and
    goodwill and other intangibles.

(2) Operating profit before amortization of intangibles divided by average
    committed capital.

(3) Operating profit divided by average capital employed.

     Health Care Information Technology revenues declined 9% to $0.9 billion in
fiscal 2001 and 22% to $1.0 billion in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2001, certain
contracts were entered into which the Company is accounting for under the
percentage of completion method, which extends the recognition of revenue over a
period of time. Services revenues declined, reflecting the lagging impact of
reduced prior period software sales on implementation services revenues. The
decline in fiscal 2000 revenues was attributable to the overall industry-wide
slowdown in sales of health care information technology software and hardware
products resulting from delays in purchasing decisions that are attributed both
to Year 2000 issues and a general weakness in demand for healthcare software.
Services revenues associated with software implementation also declined for the
same

                                       F-20

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

reasons. Also contributing to the decline was the impact to the business caused
by the investigation into improper accounting practices and resulting senior
management changes made early in the year. In addition, the terms of certain
contracts for software and implementation services executed late in the fiscal
year resulted in such contracts being accounted for under the percentage of
completion accounting method. Revenues increased 6% to $1.3 billion in fiscal
1999. The fiscal 1999 decline in software revenues of 23% reflects a general
industry-wide slowdown in sales of health care information technology products
and changes in accounting due to the adoption of Statement of Position 97-2,
"Software Revenue Recognition", effective April 1, 1998. In addition, during
fiscal 1999, the Health Care Information Technology segment experienced delays
in current and potential customers' purchasing decisions with respect to its
enterprise solutions. Management believes such delays were due to Year 2000
issues, technological innovations, increased competition, greater requirement
for integration of products and general market conditions in the computer
software industry.

     Hardware is sold as an accommodation to customers and at a significantly
lower operating margin than software and services. Fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999
revenues from the sale of hardware reflect the lower level of software sales,
general price declines for hardware and a shift to less costly Microsoft Windows
NT(TM) platforms.

     Health Care Information Technology segment operating profit before unusual
items declined 99% to $0.5 million in fiscal 2001, and 38% to $82.0 million in
fiscal 2000. The decline in fiscal 2001 reflects the extended software revenue
recognition cycle under the percentage of completion accounting method, lower
service and hardware revenues, and an increased level of expenses to enhance
customer support and future product introduction. The decline in fiscal 2000
reflects the previously discussed decline in overall sales and a lower mix of
higher-margin software sales in fiscal 2000 compared to 2001 and 1999 (14% in
fiscal 2000 as compared to 20% in fiscal 1999, as a percentage of total Health
Care Information Technology revenues). The fiscal 2000 operating profit includes
an increased level of expenses to enhance customer support and future product
introductions. Fiscal 1999 results included a bad debt provision of $70 million
and a termination fee associated with a telecommunications contract. The bad
debt provision reflects, in part, inadequate staffing of and focus on
receivables collections during a portion of fiscal 1999, implementation issues
associated with certain products and contingencies associated with contract
disputes.

     Fiscal 1999 capital expenditures reflect the acquisition and construction
of the segment's new corporate office building in Georgia.

     The return on committed capital and total capital employed in fiscal 2001
and 2000 reflect the previously discussed decline in operating profit.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

     International operations accounted for 6.6%, 6.4% and 6.9%, and 4.2%, 8.7%
and 6.6%, of fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 consolidated revenues and operating
profits before unusual items, respectively, and 5.6%, 5.8% and 5.5% of
consolidated assets at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
International operations are subject to certain opportunities and risks,
including currency fluctuations. The Company monitors its operations and adopts
strategies responsive to changes in the economic and political environment in
each of the countries in which it operates.

CONSOLIDATED WORKING CAPITAL

     Operating working capital (receivables and inventories net of related
payables) as a percent of revenues was 7.6%, 9.0% and 8.4% at March 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively. Excluding the impact of receivable sales, operating
working capital as a percent of revenues was 7.6%, 9.0% and 9.7% at March 31,
2001, 2000

                                       F-21

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

and 1999, respectively. The calculation is based on year-end balances and
assumes major purchase acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the year.

     The improvement in the operating working capital ratio in fiscal 2001 is
due to an increase in days sales outstanding in payables reflecting purchases
made later in the year and the timing of vendor payments. The improvement in the
ratio in 2000 (excluding the impact of receivable sales) is due to a reduction
in year-end days sales outstanding in both customer receivables and inventory,
reflecting working capital initiatives. In fiscal 2000, this improvement was
offset, in part, by lower days sales outstanding in payables at March 31, 2000
compared to March 31, 1999.

CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY

     Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (primarily U.S.
Treasury securities with maturities of one year or less) were $446 million, $606
million and $262 million at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities in 2000
reflects proceeds from the February 2000 sale of the Water Products business and
a private placement of term debt (see "Other Financing Activities" below).

     Marketable securities balances include $4 million, $17 million and $23
million at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, from the fiscal 1997
sale of Armor All, which securities are restricted and held in trust as exchange
property in connection with the Company's exchangeable debentures.

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE FOR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

     The following table summarizes the excess (deficit) of cash flow from
operations over capital expenditures:



- ---------------
(1) Includes previously discussed "Unusual Items".

     Cash flows from continuing operations reflect the cash earnings of the
Company's continuing businesses and the effects of the changes in working
capital. The working capital increase in fiscal 2001 primarily reflects the
timing of vendor payments in the Health Care Supply Management segment partially
offset by the payment of income taxes on the gain on sale of the Water Products
business that was sold in late fiscal 2000. The working capital increase in
fiscal 2000 primarily reflects the timing of vendor payments in the prior year
and increases in receivables and inventories associated with sales growth in the
Health Care Supply

                                       F-22

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

Management segment that were offset, in part, by improvements in days sales
outstanding in both customer receivables and inventories resulting from working
capital initiatives. The March 31, 1999 payables balance was approximately $400
million higher than expected based on the historical relationship of payables to
sales. The increase in working capital requirements in fiscal 2000 reflects the
restoration of payables to a more normalized level. Adjusting for the impact of
the payables fluctuation, net cash provided (used) by continuing operations
before receivable sales and capital expenditures would have been approximately
$500 million and $(242) million in fiscal 2000 and 1999, respectively. The
working capital increase in fiscal 1999 primarily reflects increases in
receivables and inventories resulting from sales growth in all operating
segments offset, in part, by the higher payables balance due to the timing of
vendor payments in the Health Care Supply Management segment.

     Fiscal 1999 capital expenditures reflect the acquisition and construction
of the Health Care Information Technology segment's new headquarters office
building.

OTHER FINANCING ACTIVITIES

     In July 2000, the Company announced a program to repurchase from time to
time up to $250 million of the Company's shares of common stock in open market
or private transactions. In fiscal 2001, the Company repurchased 2.2 million
shares under this program for $66 million.

     In October 2000, the Company renewed its 364-day revolving credit agreement
which allows for borrowings up to $825 million under terms substantially similar
to those previously in place, except that a 364-day term out option was
reinstated.

     In February 2000, the Company completed the sale of its wholly-owned
subsidiary McKesson Water Products Company to Groupe Danone for $1.1 billion in
cash, which enabled the Company to reduce short-term borrowings and add to its
cash and marketable securities.

     Also in February 2000, the Company completed a private placement of $335
million in term debt, the proceeds of which were used to retire term debt
maturing in March 2000 and for other general corporate purposes. $100 million of
the debt matures on February 28, 2005, $20 million matures on February 28, 2007
and $215 million is due on February 28, 2010.

     In May 1998, the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan purchased
approximately 1.3 million shares of newly issued Company common stock from the
Company at a market value of $78.125 per share.

CREDIT RESOURCES

     The Company currently has $1.225 billion of available credit under
committed revolving credit lines: a $400 million five-year facility expiring in
fiscal 2004 and an $825 million facility expiring on October 9, 2001. These
revolving credit facilities are primarily intended to support commercial paper
borrowings. The Company also has available a committed revolving receivables
sale facility aggregating $850 million. The Company anticipates that this
facility will be renewed prior to its termination date of June 15, 2001. At
March 31, 2001, the Company had no commercial paper or revolving credit
borrowings outstanding and its committed receivables sale facility was fully
available.

     The Company's senior debt credit ratings from S&P, Fitch, and Moody's are
currently BBB, BBB and Baa2, respectively, and its commercial paper ratings are
currently A-2, F-2, and P-2, respectively. The Company's ratings are on negative
credit outlook.

     Management believes that the Company has adequate access to credit sources
to meet its funding requirements. Funds necessary for future debt maturities and
other cash requirements of the Company are expected to be met by existing cash
balances, cash flow from operations, existing credit sources or other capital
market transactions.
                                       F-23

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

MARKET RISK

     The Company's major risk exposure is changing interest rates, primarily in
the United States. The Company manages interest rates through the use of a
combination of fixed and floating rate debt. Interest rate swaps may be used to
adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based upon market conditions.
These contracts are entered into with major financial institutions thereby
minimizing the risk of credit loss.

     If interest rates on existing variable-rate debt were to change 50 basis
points, the Company believes that its results from operations and cash flows
would not be materially affected.

     The Company conducts business in Canada, Mexico, France, the Netherlands,
Ireland, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom,
and is subject to foreign currency exchange risk on cash flows related to sales,
expenses, financing and investment transactions. If exchange rates on such
currencies were to fluctuate 10%, the Company believes that its results from
operations and cash flows would not be materially affected. Aggregate foreign
exchange translation gains and losses included in operations, comprehensive
income and in equity are discussed in Financial Note 1 on pages F-35 to F-37 of
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

CAPITALIZATION

     The Company's capitalization was as follows:



- ---------------
(1) Ratio computed as net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents and
    marketable securities) to net capital employed (capital employed less cash
    and cash equivalents and marketable securities).

     The increase in the net debt-to-capital ratio at March 31, 2001 primarily
reflects the increase in net debt to fund internal growth. The decline in the
net debt-to-capital ratio at March 31, 2000 primarily reflects the February 2000
proceeds from the sale of the Water Products business.

     At March 31, 2001, the Company had an $850 million committed receivables
sales facility which was fully available. The Company's accounts receivable
sales program accommodated the sale by the Company in March 1999 of $400.0
million, of undivided interests in the Company's trade accounts receivable. The
program qualifies for sale treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" and under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting
For Transfers and Servicing Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabili-

                                       F-24

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

ties" which replaces SFAS No. 125 effective in the Company's fiscal year 2002.
The sales were recorded at the estimated fair values of the receivables sold,
reflecting discounts for the time value of money based on U.S. commercial paper
rates and estimated loss provisions.

     Average diluted shares were 292.9 million in fiscal 2001, 289.6 million in
fiscal 2000 and 289.8 million in fiscal 1999. The increase in the average
diluted shares in fiscal 2001 is due to an increase in the effect of dilutive
securities resulting from the increase in the Company's stock price, and an
increase in common shares outstanding. Common stock outstanding increased to
284.0 million at March 31, 2001, 283.4 million at March 31, 2000, 280.6 million
at March 31, 1999, due primarily to the issuance of common stock under employee
benefit plans and in fiscal 2001 by the acquisition of MediVation, Inc.,
partially offset by the 2.2 million shares repurchased as part of the previously
discussed $250 million share repurchase program.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The Company's continuing operations do not require ongoing material
expenditures to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations. However, in connection with the disposition of its chemical
operations in fiscal 1987, the Company retained responsibility for certain
environmental obligations. In addition, the Company is a party to a number of
proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act (commonly known as "Superfund"), and other federal and state
environmental statutes primarily involving sites associated with the operation
of the Company's former chemical distribution businesses. In fiscal 2000, a $2.0
million increase to the liability for these environmental matters was recorded
within discontinued operations. There were no adjustments made to the reserves
in fiscal 2001 and 1999. Management does not believe that changes in the
remediation cost estimates in future periods, or the ultimate resolution of the
Company's environmental matter, will have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations. See Financial Note 18,
"Other Commitments and Contingent Liabilities" on pages F-62 to F-69 of the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

INCOME TAXES

     The tax rate on income from continuing operations (excluding unusual items)
was 39.0% in fiscal 2001, 38.5% in fiscal 2000 and 37.5% in fiscal 1999. The
increase in the effective rate from fiscal 1999 to 2001 primarily reflects the
impact of non-deductible goodwill amortization associated with purchase
acquisitions made late in fiscal 1999 and in fiscal 2000 and 2001.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     See Financial Note 1 "Significant Accounting Policies" on pages F-35 to
F-37 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

     The following additional factors may affect the Company's future results:

ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF PENDING LITIGATION REGARDING THE RESTATEMENT OF THE
COMPANY'S HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAY CAUSE IT TO INCUR MATERIAL LOSSES.

     Subsequent to the Company's April 28, 1999 restatement of financial results
announcement, and as of April 30, 2001, 85 lawsuits have been filed against the
Company, certain of the Company's or HBOC's current or former officers or
directors, and other defendants (see Financial Note 18, "Other Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities" on pages F-62 to F-69 of the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.) In addition, the United States Attorney's Office for the
Northern District of California and the San Francisco

                                       F-25

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

District Office of the SEC have also commenced investigations in connection with
the matters relating to the restatement of previously reported amounts.

     The Company does not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the
outcome or resolution of these proceedings, or to estimate the amount of, or
potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings. In addition, the
timing of the final resolution of these proceedings is uncertain. The range of
possible resolutions of these proceedings could include judgments against the
Company or settlements that could require substantial payments by the Company
which could cause it to incur material losses.

THE RESTATEMENT OF THE COMPANY'S EARNINGS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE MANAGEMENT
OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS.

     The effect of the pending litigation and government investigations could
impair the Company's ability to attract and retain quality employees and
managers.

CHANGES IN THE UNITED STATES HEALTHCARE ENVIRONMENT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL
NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S REVENUES.

     The Company's products and services are intended to function within the
structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being
used in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has changed
significantly in an effort to reduce costs. These changes include increased use
of managed care, cuts in Medicare reimbursement levels, consolidation of
pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply distributors, and the development of
large, sophisticated purchasing groups. The Company expects the healthcare
industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these
changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or
adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient
information, or the delivery or pricing of pharmaceuticals and healthcare
services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to
greatly reduce the amount of the Company's products and services they purchase
or the price they are willing to pay for the Company's products and services.
Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could
also significantly reduce the Company's income. Due to the diverse range of
health care supply management and health care information technology products
and services the Company offers, such changes may adversely impact the Company
while not affecting some of the Company's competitors that offer a more narrow
range of products and services.

SUBSTANTIAL DEFAULTS IN PAYMENT OR A MATERIAL REDUCTION IN PURCHASES OF THE
COMPANY'S PRODUCTS BY LARGE CUSTOMERS COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE IMPACT
ON THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY.

     The Company's recent strategy has been to build relationships with a
limited number of large customers that are achieving rapid growth. During the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, sales to the Company's ten largest customers
accounted for approximately 57% of the Company's total revenues. Sales to the
Company's largest customer, Rite Aid Corporation, represented approximately 16%
of the Company's fiscal 2001 revenues. As a result, the Company's sales and
credit concentration have significantly increased. Any defaults in payment or a
material reduction in purchases from the Company by these large customers could
have a significant negative impact on the Company's financial condition, results
of operations and liquidity.

THE ABILITY OF THE HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS TO ATTRACT AND
RETAIN CUSTOMERS DUE TO CHALLENGES IN INTEGRATING SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND
TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES MAY SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE THE COMPANY'S REVENUES.

     The Company's Health Care Information Technology business delivers
enterprise-wide patient care, clinical, financial, managed care, payor and
strategic management software solutions, as well as networking
                                       F-26

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

technologies, electronic commerce, outsourcing and other services to health care
organizations throughout the United States and certain foreign countries.
Challenges in integrating software products used by the Health Care Information
Technology business with those of its customers could impair the Company's
ability to attract and retain customers and may reduce its revenues or increase
its expenses.

     Future advances in the health care information systems industry could lead
to new technologies, products or services that are competitive with the products
and services offered by the Health Care Information Technology business. Such
technological advances could also lower the cost of such products and services
or otherwise result in competitive pricing pressure. The success of the Health
Care Information Technology business will depend, in part, on its ability to be
responsive to technological developments, pricing pressures and changing
business models. To remain competitive in the evolving health care information
systems marketplace, the Health Care Information Technology business must
develop new products on a timely basis. The failure to develop competitive
products and to introduce new products on a timely basis could curtail the
ability of the Health Care Information Technology business to attract and retain
customers and thereby significantly reduce the Company's net income.

PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY PROTECTIONS MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
MAY INFRINGE ON RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES.

     The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and
trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical
measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. There can be no
assurance that these protections will be adequate or that the Company's
competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially
equivalent or superior to the Company's technology. Although the Company
believes that its products and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon the
proprietary rights of third parties, from time to time third parties have
asserted infringement claims against the Company and there can be no assurance
that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in
the future. Additionally, the Company may find it necessary to initiate
litigation to protect the Company's trade secrets, to enforce its patent,
copyright and trademark rights, and to determine the scope and validity of the
proprietary rights of others. These types of litigation can be costly and time
consuming. These litigation expenses or any damage payments resulting from
adverse determinations of third party claims could be significant and result in
material losses to the Company.

POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS ARISING FROM HEALTH CARE INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS PRODUCTS COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES TO THE COMPANY.

     The Company provides products that assist clinical decision-making and
relate to patient medical histories and treatment plans. If these products fail
to provide accurate and timely information, customers could assert liability
claims against the Company. Litigation with respect to liability claims,
regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial cost to the Company,
divert management's attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of
the Company's products. The Company attempts to limit by contract its liability
for damages from negligence, errors or mistakes. Despite this precaution, the
limitations of liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable or
may not otherwise protect the Company from liability for damages. The Company
maintains general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors
and omissions. However, this coverage may not continue to be available on
acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or
more large claims against the Company. In addition, the insurer might disclaim
coverage as to any future claim.

                                       F-27

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

SYSTEM ERRORS AND WARRANTIES IN HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS
PRODUCTS COULD CAUSE UNFORESEEN LIABILITIES.

     The Company's Health Care Information Technology business' systems are very
complex. As with complex systems offered by others, the Company's systems may
contain errors, especially when first introduced. The Health Care Information
Technology business' systems are intended to provide information for health care
providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of its products have a
greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software products
generally. Failure of a client's system to perform in accordance with its
documentation could constitute a breach of warranty and could require the
Company to incur additional expense in order to make the system comply with the
documentation. If such failure is not timely remedied, it could constitute a
material breach under a contract allowing the client to cancel the contract,
obtain refunds of amounts previously paid or assert claims for significant
damages.

POTENTIAL REGULATION BY THE U.S. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION ("FDA") OF
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AS MEDICAL DEVICES COULD IMPOSE INCREASED COSTS,
DELAY THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS AND HURT THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS.

     The FDA is likely to become increasingly active in regulating computer
software intended for use in the health care setting. The FDA has increasingly
focused on the regulation of computer products and computer-assisted products as
medical devices under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. If the FDA
chooses to regulate any of the Company's products as medical devices, it can
impose extensive requirements upon the Company. If the Company fails to comply
with the applicable requirements, the FDA could respond by imposing fines,
injunctions or civil penalties, requiring recalls or product corrections,
suspending production, refusing to grant pre-market clearance or approval of
products, withdrawing clearances and approvals and initiating criminal
prosecution. Any final FDA policy governing computer products, once issued, may
increase the cost and time to market of new or existing products or may prevent
the Company from marketing its products.

NEW AND POTENTIAL FEDERAL REGULATIONS RELATING TO PATIENT CONFIDENTIALITY COULD
DEPRESS THE DEMAND FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AND IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT
PRODUCT REDESIGN COSTS ON THE COMPANY.

     State and federal laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and
the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations
govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record
information and may require the users of such information to implement specified
security measures. Regulations governing electronic health data transmissions
are evolving rapidly and are often unclear and difficult to apply.

     The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA")
requires national standards for some types of electronic health information
transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, standards to
ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and national
health data privacy legislation or regulations. In December 2000, final health
data privacy regulations were published which will require health care
organizations to be in compliance by April, 2003. These regulations restrict the
use and disclosure of personally identifiable health information without the
prior informed consent of the patient.

     Evolving HIPAA-Related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of
the Company's customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This
could adversely affect demand for the Company's products and force product
re-design in order to meet the requirements of any new regulations and protect
the privacy and integrity of patient data. The Company may need to expend
significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify its
products to address these evolving data security and privacy issues.

                                       F-28


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONCLUDED)

THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS COULD BE HINDERED IF IT IS UNABLE TO COMPLETE AND
INTEGRATE ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY.

     An element of the Company's business is to pursue strategic acquisitions
that either expand or complement its business. The Company routinely reviews
such potential acquisition opportunities and has historically engaged in
numerous acquisitions. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of special
risks. Such risks include:

     - the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the
       operations of businesses the Company has acquired;

     - difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the
       realization of potential operating synergies;

     - difficulties in the integration of any acquired companies operating in a
       different sector of the health care industry;

     - delays or difficulties in opening and operating larger distribution
       centers in a larger and more complex distribution network;

     - the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired
       companies;

     - challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses; and

     - potential adverse effects on operating results.

     If the Company is unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic
acquisitions in a timely manner, its business and the Company's growth
strategies could be negatively affected.

THE COMPANY'S ISSUANCE OF EQUITY TO FINANCE ACQUISITIONS COULD HAVE A POTENTIAL
DILUTIVE EFFECT ON ITS STOCK.

     The Company anticipates that it will finance acquisitions, at least partly
by incurring debt or by the issuance of additional securities. The use of equity
financing, rather than debt, for acquisitions would dilute the ownership of the
Company's then current stockholders.

                                       F-29


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Stockholders and Board of Directors of
McKesson HBOC, Inc:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of McKesson
HBOC, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and
cash flows for the years then ended. Our audits also included the supplementary
consolidated financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a). These
consolidated financial statements and supplementary consolidated financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and supplementary consolidated financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company
at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, based
on our audits, such supplementary consolidated financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

     As discussed in Financial Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Company is involved in certain shareholder litigation related to HBOC.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

San Francisco, California
April 30, 2001

                                       F-30


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



                              See Financial Notes.
                                       F-31


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



                              See Financial Notes.
                                       F-32


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
                   (SHARES IN THOUSANDS, DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)


                              See Financial Notes.
                                       F-33


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                              See Financial Notes.
                                       F-34


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                                FINANCIAL NOTES

 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     The consolidated financial statements of McKesson HBOC, Inc. ("McKesson
HBOC" or the "Company") include the financial statements of all majority-owned
companies, except those classified as discontinued operations. All significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Certain prior year
amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

     The Company is organized under two operating segments, Health Care Supply
Management and Health Care Information Technology. Within the United States and
Canada, the Health Care Supply Management segment is a leading wholesale
distributor of ethical and proprietary drugs, medical-surgical supplies and
health and beauty care products principally to chain and independent drug
stores, hospitals, alternate care sites, food stores and mass merchandisers.
Health Care Supply Management operations also include the manufacture and sale
of automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems for hospitals and retail
pharmacists, medical management services and tools for payors and providers,
marketing and other support services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, consulting
and outsourcing services to pharmacies, and distribution of first-aid products
to industrial and commercial customers. The Health Care Information Technology
segment delivers enterprise-wide patient care, clinical, financial, supply
chain, managed care, payor and strategic management software solutions, as well
as networking technologies, including wireless capabilities, electronic
commerce, outsourcing and other services to health care organizations throughout
the United States and certain foreign countries.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires that
management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents include all highly liquid debt instruments
purchased with a maturity of three months or less at the date of acquisition.

     Marketable Securities Available for Sale are carried at fair value and the
net unrealized gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, computed in
marking these securities to market have been reported within stockholders'
equity. The investments mature on various dates through fiscal 2002.

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventories of the
Health Care Supply segment consist of merchandise held for resale with the
majority of the cost of domestic inventories determined on the last-in first-out
("LIFO") method and international inventories stated at average cost. Health
Care Information Technology segment inventories consist of computer hardware
with cost determined either by the specific identification or first-in,
first-out ("FIFO") method.

     Property, Plant and Equipment is stated at cost and depreciated on the
straight-line method at rates designed to distribute the cost of properties over
estimated service lives ranging from one to 50 years.

     Capitalized Software primarily includes development costs of Health Care
Information Technology software products once the project has reached the point
of technological feasibility. Management monitors the net realizable value of
all software development investments to ensure that the investment will be
recovered through future sales. Completed projects are amortized after reaching
the point of general availability using the straight-line method based on an
estimated useful life of three years.

     The Company capitalized software development costs of $39.3 million, $54.5
million and $56.3 million in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
Amortization of capitalized software held for sale totaled $31.8 million, $32.2
million and $25.9 million in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. Royalty fees of
$17.9 million, $18.2 million and $39.0 million, were expensed in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively, for software provided by third-party business partners.
                                       F-35

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     Goodwill and Other Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods estimated to be benefited, generally 3 to 40 years. Accumulated
amortization balances netted against goodwill and other intangibles were $218.7
million, $178.7 million and $172.3 million at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

     Long-lived Assets. The Company periodically assesses the recoverability of
the cost of its long-lived assets, including goodwill. Measurement of impairment
losses for long-lived assets, including goodwill, that the Company expects to
hold and use is based on estimated fair values of the assets. Estimates of fair
values are based on quoted market prices, when available, the results of
valuation techniques utilizing discounted cash flows (using the lowest level of
identifiable cash flows) or fundamental analysis. Long-lived assets to be
disposed of, either by sale or abandonment, are reported at the lower of
carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

     Insurance Programs. Under the Company's insurance programs, coverage is
obtained for catastrophic exposures as well as those risks required to be
insured by law or contract. It is the policy of the Company to retain a
significant portion of certain losses related primarily to workers'
compensation, physical loss to property, business interruption resulting from
such loss, and comprehensive general, product, and vehicle liability. Provisions
for losses expected under these programs are recorded based upon the Company's
estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred. Such estimates utilize
certain actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry.

     Revenue Recognition. Revenues of the Health Care Supply Management segment
are recognized when products are shipped or services are provided to customers.
Included in these revenues are large volume sales of pharmaceuticals to major
self-warehousing drugstore chains whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in
the order and subsequent delivery of products directly from the manufacturer to
the customers' warehouses. These sales totaled $10.7 billion in 2001, $8.7
billion in 2000 and $6.8 billion in 1999.

     Revenues of the Health Care Information Technology segment are generated
primarily by licensing software systems (consisting of software, hardware and
maintenance support), and providing outsourcing and professional services.
Software systems are marketed under information systems agreements as well as
service agreements. Perpetual software arrangements are recognized at the time
of delivery or under the percentage of completion contract method in accordance
with Statement of Position 97-2 ("SOP 97-2"), "Software Revenue Recognition" and
SOP 81-1 "Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain
Product-Type Contracts," based on the terms and conditions in the contract.
Changes in estimates to complete and revisions in overall profit estimates on
percentage of completion contracts are recognized in the period in which they
are determined. Hardware is generally recognized upon delivery. Multi-year
software license agreements are recognized ratably over the term of the
agreement. Implementation fees are recognized as the work is performed or under
the percentage of completion contract method. Maintenance and support agreements
are marketed under annual or multiyear agreements and are recognized ratably
over the period covered by the agreements. Remote processing services are
recognized monthly as the work is performed. Outsourcing services are recognized
as the work is performed.

     The Company also offers its products on an application service provider
("ASP") basis, making available Company software functionality on a remote
processing basis from the Company's data centers. The data centers provide
system and administrative support as well as processing services. Revenue on
products sold on an ASP basis is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of
the contract.

     In December 1999, the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 ("SAB
101"), which provides the staff's views on applying generally accepted
accounting principles to selected revenue recognition issues. During the quarter
ended December 31, 2000, the Company adopted SAB 101, which did not materially
impact the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.

                                       F-36

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     Other Income, net includes interest income of $29.1 million, $21.7 million
and $37.8 million and the Company's share in the net income (loss) from
investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting of $5.9 million,
$18.2 million and $14.6 million in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     Income Taxes. The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability
method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in
the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities
are determined based on the difference between the financial statements and tax
bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year
in which the differences are expected to reverse.

     Foreign Currency Translation. Assets and liabilities of the Company's
foreign affiliates are translated at current exchange rates, while revenue and
expenses are translated at average rates prevailing during the year. Translation
adjustments related to the Company's foreign operations are reported as a
component of stockholders' equity.

     Derivative Financial Instruments. The Company's policy generally is to use
financial derivatives only to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest and
foreign currency exchange rates. The Company has entered into interest rate and
currency swap agreements to hedge certain interest and currency rate risks which
are accounted for using the settlement basis of accounting. Premiums paid on
interest rate and currency swap agreements are deferred and amortized to
interest expense over the life of the underlying hedged instrument, or
immediately if the underlying hedged instrument is settled. No gains or losses
are recorded for movements in the swaps' values during the terms of the
respective agreements. The interest rate swaps were terminated in February 2000.
(See Financial Note 10).

     Employee Stock Options. The Company uses the intrinsic value method to
account for stock-based compensation in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees".

     New Accounting Pronouncements. In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", which
established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts
(collectively referred to as "derivatives") and for hedging activities. It
requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure these instruments
at fair value. In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137 "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of the Effective Date
of FASB Statement No. 133" which defers the effective date of SFAS No. 133 until
the Company's fiscal year 2002. The FASB further amended SFAS No. 133 to address
implementation issues by issuing SFAS No. 138, "Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities -- an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 133", in June 2000. The Company completed the inventory of
potential derivative instruments and adopted SFAS No. 133 as of April 1, 2001.
The adoption of this accounting standard did not materially impact the
consolidated financial statements.

     In September 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers
and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," which
revises the standards for accounting for securitizations and other transfers of
financial assets and collateral and requires entities that have securitized
financial assets to provide specific disclosures. SFAS No. 140 is effective for
transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities
occurring after March 31, 2001. The adoption of this accounting standard did not
materially impact the consolidated financial statements.

                                       F-37

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

 2. ACQUISITIONS, INVESTMENTS AND DIVESTITURES

  Fiscal 2001 Acquisitions and Investments:

     In April 2000, the Company and three other health care product distributors
announced an agreement to form the New Health Exchange (subsequently renamed
"Health Nexis"). Health Nexis is an Internet-based company focused on
information systems and other technology solutions to streamline communication,
processing and management of product and contract data across the health care
supply chain. The Company accounts for its 34% interest in Health Nexis under
the equity method of accounting. In fiscal 2001, the Company invested $10.8
million in Health Nexis and recorded equity in the losses of Health Nexis of
$5.0 million.

     In July 2000, the Company acquired MediVation, Inc., a provider of an
automated web-based system for physicians to communicate with patients online,
for approximately $24 million in cash, $14 million in Company common stock and
the assumption of $6 million of employee stock incentives. A charge of $2.1
million was recorded to write off the portion of the purchase price allocated to
in-process technology for which technological feasibility had not been
established as of the acquisition date and for which there were no alternative
uses. The Company received an independent valuation that utilized a discounted
cash flow methodology by product line to assist in valuing in-process and
existing technologies as of the acquisition date. In connection with the
restructure of the Company's former iMcKesson business in February, 2001 and
based on the utilization of a discounted cash flow methodology, the Company
recorded an impairment loss for the unamortized goodwill and intangibles balance
as of March 31, 2001.

     In fiscal 2001, the Company also completed a number of smaller acquisitions
including two medical-surgical distributors, nine distributors of first-aid
products, a medical management business and an information technology business.
The aggregate cost of these acquisitions, accounted for as purchases, totaled
approximately $28.1 million. The aggregate excess of purchase price over the
fair value of net assets acquired of $23.5 million is being amortized on a
straight-line basis over periods ranging from 3 to 20 years. The results of
operations of the acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated
financial statements since their respective acquisition dates.

  Fiscal 2000 Acquisitions:

     On November 2, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of Abaton.com, a
provider of internet-based clinical applications for use by physician practices,
pharmacy benefit managers, benefit payors, laboratories and pharmacies, for
approximately $95 million in cash and the assumption of approximately $8 million
of employee stock incentives. A charge of $1.5 million was recorded to write off
the portion of the purchase price of Abaton.com allocated to in-process
technology for which technological feasibility had not been established as of
the acquisition date and for which there were no alternative uses. The Company
received an independent valuation that utilized a discounted cash flow
methodology by product line to assist in valuing in-process and existing
technologies as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other intangibles related
to the acquisition amounted to $101 million. In connection with the restructure
of the Company's former iMcKesson business in February, 2001 and based on the
utilization of a discounted cash flow methodology, the Company recorded an
impairment loss for the unamortized goodwill and intangibles balance as of March
31, 2001.

     In fiscal 2000, the Company also made a number of smaller acquisitions
including eight distributors of first-aid products, a provider of systems that
adjudicate third party prescription claims and three health care information
technology businesses. The aggregate cost of these acquisitions, accounted for
as purchases, totaled approximately $34.1 million. The aggregate excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired of $34.9 million is
being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 6 to

                                       F-38

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

20 years. The results of operations of the acquired businesses have been
included in the consolidated financial statements since their respective
acquisition dates.

  Fiscal 1999 Acquisitions:

     HBOC Acquisition

     On January 12, 1999, McKesson Corporation ("McKesson") completed the
acquisition of HBO & Company ("HBOC"), a leading health care information
technology company, by exchanging 177 million shares of McKesson common stock
for all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of HBOC. Each share
of HBOC stock was exchanged for 0.37 of a share of McKesson common stock (the
"Exchange Ratio"). McKesson was renamed McKesson HBOC, Inc. The transaction was
structured as a tax-free reorganization and was accounted for as a pooling of
interests.

     In April 1999, the Company discovered improper accounting practices at
HBOC. In July, 1999, the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors
completed an investigation into such matters which resulted in the previously
reported restatement of the Company's historical consolidated financial
statements related to HBOC (pre-acquisition) in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997. In
fiscal 2000, the Company incurred costs in connection with the investigation and
the resulting restatement of the historical consolidated financial statements,
and pending litigation (see Financial Note 18) and recorded charges of $18.9
million for accounting and legal fees and other costs.

     Other Poolings of Interests

     In addition to the HBOC acquisition, the following acquisitions were
accounted for under the pooling of interests method:

     In August 1998, the Company acquired Hawk Medical Supply, Inc., a
distributor of medical-surgical supplies primarily to the primary care sector,
for approximately 2 million shares of Company common stock.

     Also in August 1998, the Company acquired J. Knipper and Company, a
provider of direct mail, fulfillment and sales support services, including
sample distribution to physician and pharmaceutical company sales
representatives, for approximately 300,000 shares of Company common stock.

     In September 1998, the Company acquired Automated Prescription Systems,
Inc., a manufacturer of automated prescription filling and dispensing systems,
for approximately 1.4 million shares of Company common stock.

     In October 1998, the Company acquired US Servis, Inc., a professional
management company that provides outsourcing services for physician delivery
systems and hospital business offices, for the equivalent, after application of
the Exchange Ratio, of approximately 700,000 shares of Company common stock.

     In October 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of IMNET Systems,
Inc., a provider of electronic information and document management solutions for
the health care industry, for the equivalent, after application of the Exchange
Ratio, of approximately 3.6 million shares of Company common stock and 0.6
million Company stock options.

     In December 1998, the Company acquired Access Health, Inc., a provider of
clinically based care management programs and health care information services,
for the equivalent, after application of the Exchange Ratio, of approximately
12.7 million shares of Company common stock.

     In connection with the fiscal 1999 acquisitions discussed above, the
Company incurred transaction costs, primarily consisting of professional fees
such as investment banking, legal and accounting fees of $84.6 million,
including $6.6 million of transaction costs associated with various terminated
transactions which had been explored by the Company. In addition, the Company
incurred acquisition-related employee benefit costs

                                       F-39

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

of $88.7 million, primarily related to benefits received by employees in
connection with change of control provisions, signing and retention bonuses and
retirement and employee benefits.

     Purchase Transactions

     The following fiscal 1999 acquisitions were accounted for under the
purchase method and the results of operations of the acquired businesses have
been included in the consolidated financial statements since their respective
acquisition dates:

     In September 1998, the Company acquired MedManagement LLC, a pharmacy
management, purchasing, consulting and information services company, for
approximately $38 million in cash. The acquisition was funded with debt. The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired of
$41 million is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years.

     In November 1998, the Company acquired RedLine HealthCare Corporation
("RedLine"), a distributor of medical supplies and services to the extended-care
industry, including long-term-care and home-care sites for approximately $233
million in cash. The acquisition was funded with debt. The valuation of the
RedLine net assets acquired included the recognition of liabilities totaling
$5.8 million related to closures of duplicate facilities, and involuntary
termination and relocation benefits. The excess of the purchase price over the
fair value of the net assets acquired of $149 million is being amortized on a
straight-line basis over 40 years.

     In fiscal 1999, the Company also made a number of smaller acquisitions
including six distributors of first-aid products. The aggregate cost of these
acquisitions, accounted for as purchases, totaled approximately $35 million.

     Divestiture

     On February 29, 2000, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary,
McKesson Water Products Company (the "Water Products business") to Groupe Danone
for approximately $1.1 billion in cash and recognized an after-tax gain of
$515.9 million. The taxes related to this transaction were accrued in fiscal
2000 and paid in fiscal 2001. All of the net assets and results of operations of
the Water Products business have been classified as discontinued operations and
all prior years restated accordingly.

 3. GAIN (LOSS) ON INVESTMENTS

     In November 1999, the Company received 4.5 million shares of WebMD
Corporation common stock and 8.4 million warrants to purchase WebMD Corporation
common stock in exchange for its shares and warrants of WebMD, Inc. as a result
of the November 11, 1999 merger between Healtheon Corporation and WebMD, Inc.
The Company recorded gains on the exchange of the common stock based on the
November 11, 1999 closing market price and on the warrants at fair value using
the Black-Scholes valuation method.

     In December 1999, the Company donated 250,000 shares of WebMD common stock
to the McKesson HBOC Foundation and sold 2.0 million WebMD common shares. As a
result of these events, the Company recognized gains related to the investment
in WebMD of $242.8 million. In addition, other equity investments were sold in
December 1999 at a gain of $20.3 million, and a $9.8 million charge was recorded
in administrative expense to reflect the donation of the WebMD common stock to
the McKesson HBOC Foundation. In January 2000, the Company recognized a gain of
$5.9 million on the sale of its remaining investment in WebMD common shares.

     The estimated fair value of the WebMD warrants declined to $0.3 million as
of March 31, 2001. As a result of the continued decline in the value, the
Company recorded an other than temporary impairment loss on this investment of
$93.1 million during the fiscal year. The Company also recorded an impairment
loss of

                                       F-40

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

$35.6 million based upon its review of other equity and venture capital
investments during the fiscal year. The impairment losses were partially offset
by a gain of $7.8 million on the liquidation of another investment.

 4. RESTRUCTURING AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS

     In fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company recorded charges and adjustments
for restructuring and asset impairments of $355.9 million, $232.7 million and
$140.3 million, respectively. The major components of the charges are as
follows:



     A summary of the activity for severance and exit-related accruals from
March 31, 1998 to March 31, 2001, by operating segment, follows:



     The remaining balances at March 31, 2001 relate primarily to charges
recorded in fiscal 2001 and 1999. The reserves for exit-related items consist
primarily of remaining contract obligations and costs for preparing facilities
for disposal, lease costs and property taxes required subsequent to termination
of operations.

                                       F-41

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     A description of the restructuring and asset impairment charges in fiscal
2001, 2000 and 1999, by segment, follows:

  Fiscal 2001

HEALTH CARE SUPPLY MANAGEMENT

     In May 2000, the Company announced the formation of a new business unit,
iMcKesson to focus on healthcare applications using the Internet and other
emerging technologies. iMcKesson included selected assets from the former
e-Health, Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information Technology
segments and acquisitions of strategic investments and businesses.

     In February 2001, the Company announced the restructuring of the iMcKesson
business unit by moving responsibility for iMcKesson's medical management
business to the Health Care Supply Management segment and the physician services
business to the Health Care Information Technology segment.

     In connection with an assessment of these businesses, management decided to
discontinue a product line and close an office in the United Kingdom. Asset
impairment charges totaling $16.9 million were recorded, including $15.9 million
for certain strategic investments held by the medical management business that
became impaired during the year and $1.0 million primarily for capitalized
software. A severance charge of $1.0 million was recorded related to the
termination of approximately 70 employees primarily in customer service and
administrative functions which will be paid in fiscal 2002. In addition, the
Company recorded exit-related costs of $0.3 million and paid $0.2 million for
contract termination fees and lease obligations remaining subsequent to
termination of operations.

     Also during fiscal 2001, the Company announced its plans to close a call
center. The Company recorded severance charges of $2.1 million related to the
termination of approximately 114 employees, primarily in customer service
functions, and exit-related costs of $0.2 million. During the year, severance of
$1.6 million was paid to approximately 95 of those employees and the remainder
will be paid in fiscal 2002.

     In addition, the Company closed a Health Care Supply Management
pharmaceutical distribution center. In connection with this closure, the Company
recorded charges of $0.7 million in asset impairments, $0.5 million for
severance relating to the termination of 54 employees and $0.5 million for
facility closing costs. The Company paid $0.4 million to 43 of those employees
and $0.5 million of facility closing costs. The Company also recorded a
severance charge of $0.5 million relating to the termination of 25 employees in
the Health Care Supply Management pharmacy management business and paid $0.4
million to 20 of those employees.

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company reviewed the operations
and cost structure of its pharmaceutical services business resulting in the
planned closures of two offices. The Company recorded $1.4 million in asset
impairments, $2.5 million in severance charges and $1.6 million in exit-related
costs. The severance charge relates to the termination of approximately 50
employees in customer service and administrative functions and will be paid in
fiscal 2002. The exit-related costs are associated primarily with lease
obligations remaining subsequent to the termination of operations. The Company
also announced the consolidation of customer service centers in the
medical-surgical business and a workforce reduction. This resulted in the
planned termination of approximately 120 employees in customer service
functions. The Company recorded severance charges of $2.9 million, of which $1.8
million will be paid in fiscal 2002, $0.6 million will be paid in fiscal 2003
and $0.5 million will be paid in fiscal 2004. The Company also reduced prior
year severance reserves that were determined to be in excess by $0.9 million.

     In conjunction with restructuring plans provided for in prior fiscal years,
during fiscal 2001, the Company closed two other pharmaceutical distribution
centers, eight medical-surgical distribution centers and one medical-surgical
sales office in the Health Care Supply Management segment. This resulted in the
payment of

                                       F-42

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

$1.5 million in severance to approximately 80 terminated pharmaceutical
distribution center and administrative employees. Also, the Company paid $1.8
million in severance to approximately 220 employees that were terminated in the
medical-surgical business. In addition, the Company paid $3.2 million for costs
incurred in connection with the distribution center closures and associated real
estate property taxes, rents, utility and other costs for facilities subsequent
to termination of operations in the Health Care Supply Management segment and
reversed previously recorded exit-related reserves of $1.3 million. The Company
plans to continue the previously announced distribution center closures,
back-office reductions and workforce reductions in the Health Care Supply
Management segment throughout fiscal 2002.

HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

     In connection with the restructure of the former iMcKesson business, the
Company discontinued certain physician services product offerings. This resulted
in the recording of impairment charges totaling $120.2 million including $116.2
million for the write-off of goodwill and intangibles from the acquisitions of
Abaton.com and MediVation. In addition, capitalized software costs of $2.9
million and fixed assets of $1.1 that are no longer going to be used were
written off. Severance charges of $3.3 million relating to the termination of
approximately 140 employees in development, customer service and administrative
functions, was also recorded. Also, charges totaling $8.5 million for remaining
contract obligations and lease liabilities continuing subsequent to termination
of business was recorded.

     In addition, the Company's Health Care Information Technology segment
revised estimates for software and services issues associated with pre-July 1999
software contracts and recorded an additional $161.1 million charge for
estimated customer settlements (forgiveness of accounts receivable, customer
credits and refunds). These customer settlements generally relate to product
replacements as well as requirements for certain customers to upgrade computer
hardware and software to accommodate new product releases.

     In the Health Care Information Technology segment, severance of $4.7
million was paid to approximately 240 employees that were terminated in fiscal
1999 and 2000 but have severance agreements that provide for payments through
fiscal 2002. In addition, $0.2 million in exit-related costs was paid related to
closed facilities in the Health Care Information Technology segment.

CORPORATE

     In connection with the previously discussed restructure of iMcKesson, the
Company recorded asset impairment charges totaling $8.9 million. These charges
include $7.2 million for investments that were impaired based upon declining
market values and $1.7 million for the write-off of internal systems and fixed
assets that will no longer be utilized. The Company also recorded severance
charges of $24.7 million associated with the closure of iMcKesson's headquarters
function. The severance charge relates to the termination of 8 employees in
administrative functions, including the former CEO of iMcKesson. In addition,
the Company recorded $0.3 million in exit-related costs associated with the shut
down of iMcKesson's headquarters function.

     To reflect the charges discussed above, the Company recorded charges of
$1.7 million in distribution expense and $2.1 million in research and
development expense and $329.6 million in administrative expense and a $0.6
million reduction in selling expense. In addition, investment impairment charges
of $23.1 million have been recorded in gain (loss) on investments.

  Fiscal 2000

HEALTH CARE SUPPLY MANAGEMENT

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company reviewed the operations
and cost structure of the Health Care Supply Management's medical-surgical
business. This resulted in the planned closure of a sales

                                       F-43

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

office and a workforce reduction. The Company recorded a $0.6 million charge for
exit-related costs and a severance charge of $2.3 million relating to the
termination of approximately 200 employees primarily in warehouse,
administrative and sales functions. During fiscal 2001, severance of $1.2
million was paid to approximately 160 employees under salary continuance
agreements. The remaining severance will be paid in fiscal 2002.

     The Company also recorded a $0.2 million charge for obsolete equipment
associated with certain discontinued products in the medical management
business.

     In addition, the Company reassessed prior years' restructuring plans
resulting in the decision to retain one of the six pharmaceutical distribution
centers identified for closure in fiscal 1999, and to reduce the number of
medical-surgical distribution center closures. The Company also announced and
completed the closure of one additional pharmaceutical distribution center in
fiscal 2000. The Company recorded $6.9 million and $1.2 million for net
reductions of prior year-reserves for exit-related activities and severance,
respectively, and charges of $1.5 million for additional asset impairments
associated with closed distribution centers ($0.7 million for receivables and
$0.8 million for inventories).

     In fiscal 2000, the Company completed the closures of three pharmaceutical
distribution centers, including the additional distribution center mentioned
above. In addition, the realignment of the sales organization was completed and
certain back office functions were eliminated. This resulted in the termination
of approximately 200 employees and the payment of $3.6 million in severance. The
Company also completed the closures of three medical-surgical distribution
centers and paid $1.0 million in severance to approximately 100 employees who
were terminated in fiscal 1999 and 2000. In addition, the Company paid $2.6
million in costs incurred in connection with the distribution center closures
and also real estate property taxes, rents, utility and other costs for the
facilities subsequent to termination of operations. The Company plans to
continue these closure activities throughout fiscal 2002.

HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company completed an assessment
of the Health Care Information Technology's business and product portfolio. This
resulted in the decision to reorganize the business and to discontinue
overlapping or non-strategic product offerings. The Company recorded charges of
$232.5 million for asset impairments. These included charges to write off $49.1
million of capitalized software development costs, $39.3 million of purchased
software and $50.7 million of goodwill associated with the discontinued product
lines. In addition, a $74.1 million reserve was recorded for customer
settlements attributable to the discontinued product lines. The Company also
recorded a $9.4 million loss on the disposition of a non-core foreign operation,
and a $7.7 million charge for uncollectible unbilled receivables and $2.2
million charge for obsolete equipment associated with the discontinued products.
Substantially all of the charges were non-cash asset write-offs except for the
customer settlements. In addition, a charge of $0.6 million was recorded for
costs to prepare facilities for disposal, lease costs and property taxes
required subsequent to termination of operations and other exit-related
activities. In fiscal 2000, the Company paid $0.5 million in rent costs for
office space abandoned in prior years.

     The Company also recorded a $3.9 million severance charge related to the
product streamlining and reorganization. The fiscal 2000 charge relates to
approximately 300 employees, primarily in product development and support and
administrative functions who were terminated at the end of fiscal 2000.
Substantially all of the severance was paid in fiscal 2001. In addition, the
Company reduced prior-year severance reserves by $0.8 million, in this segment.

                                       F-44

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     To reflect the items discussed above, charges of $0.8 million have been
recorded in cost of sales and $234.8 million have been recorded in
administrative expenses. In addition, the Company recorded $0.3 million and $2.6
million as reductions to selling expenses and distribution expenses,
respectively.

  Fiscal 1999

HEALTH CARE SUPPLY MANAGEMENT

     In fiscal 1999, the Company identified six distribution centers for closure
of which one distribution center was shut down by March 31, 1999. The Company
recorded a charge of $25.5 million related to such closures. Of this charge,
$21.7 million was required to reduce the carrying value of facility assets to
their estimated fair value less disposal costs, and $3.8 million was related to
computer hardware and software which will no longer be used at such facilities.
Fair value was determined based on sales of similar assets, appraisals, and/or
other estimates such as discounting of estimated future cash flows. Also related
to such closures, a charge of $17.2 million was recorded for other exit-related
costs. These primarily consist of costs to prepare facilities for disposal,
lease costs and property taxes required subsequent to termination of operations,
as well as the write-off of costs related to duplicate assets which do not have
future use by the Company. Of the above charges, $25.5 million were non-cash
asset write-offs. Also, in connection with the previously discussed reassessment
of this plan in fiscal 2000, the Company reduced exit-related reserves by $6.9
million, offset in part by additional asset impairments of $1.5 million.

     As part of this plan, the Company recorded a severance charge of $13.3
million for workforce reductions. The severance charge relates to the
termination of approximately 1,000 employees, primarily in distribution centers
and associated back-office functions. Severance of $2.7 million was paid during
fiscal 1999 in connection with the termination of approximately 100 distribution
center employees and $4.6 million was paid in fiscal 2000 to approximately 300
employees, primarily in distribution centers, sales and associated back-office
functions. In fiscal 2001, $2.1 million was paid to approximately 150 employees
primarily in distribution centers and associated back-office functions. In
addition, $1.2 million in severance reserves, primarily associated with a
reduction in estimated terminations of approximately 100 employees, was recorded
as a reduction of expenses in fiscal 2000, as a result of the previously
discussed reassessment of this restructuring plan. The Company also wrote off
$23.5 million (non-cash) of computer hardware and software which were abandoned
as the result of an acquisition during the year.

     In connection with acquisitions in the medical management business, plans
for integration of the companies, workforce reductions and consolidation of
facilities were completed. The Company recorded charges of $6.0 million (net of
a $3.0 million reversal of severance obligations which were determined to be in
excess) for severance related to the termination of 230 employees primarily in
customer service, development and administrative functions. Severance of $2.8
million was paid in fiscal 1999, $6.1 million was paid in fiscal 2000 and $0.1
million was paid in fiscal 2001. In addition, the Company recorded charges of
$12.0 million associated with the termination of royalty agreements because
products subject to minimum royalty payments to third parties were replaced with
acquired products and $4.3 million primarily for the write-off of capitalized
software costs.

HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

     In fiscal 1999, the Health Care Information Technology segment completed
several acquisitions. In connection with these acquisitions, and the merger of
HBOC with McKesson, plans were approved by management to consolidate facilities,
reduce workforce and eliminate duplicate products and internal systems.

     In order to effect these plans, the Company identified workforce
reductions, including both acquired company and Company personnel, and recorded
severance costs of $12.6 million. The severance charge relates to the
termination of approximately 320 employees, primarily in development and
administrative functions. Severance of $6.6 million, $4.2 million and $1.0
million was paid during fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001,

                                       F-45

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

respectively, primarily under salary continuance arrangements. Also, $0.8
million of excess severance reserves were reversed in fiscal 2000.

     In addition, duplicate facilities, products and internal systems were
identified for elimination, resulting in charges of $5.9 million, relating
principally to the write-off of capitalized costs and lease termination costs.
In addition, following the HBOC Acquisition, the Company evaluated the
performance of a foreign business and elected to shut down its facility. Charges
of $11.6 million were recorded, principally related to the write-off of goodwill
to fair value based on discounted cash flows. Revenues and net operating income
for this foreign business were not significant in fiscal 1999. Certain
investments became impaired during fiscal 1999 and were written down by $4.3
million to their net realizable values based primarily on discounted cash flows,
and other reserves of $4.1 million were recorded to cover customer and other
claims arising out of the acquisitions. Substantially all of the above charges
were non-cash asset write-offs.

     The charges discussed above have been recorded in cost of sales, selling,
distribution and administrative expenses. During fiscal 1999, there were no
significant changes in estimates or recharacterizations of amounts from
restructuring reserves recorded in prior years, except for the $3.0 million
reversal described above.

 5. OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK AND CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

     Trade receivables subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk
with customers in the retail and institutional sectors. A significant proportion
of the Company's increase in sales has been to a limited number of large
customers. Consequently, the Company's credit concentration has increased.
Accordingly, any defaults in payment by these large customers could have a
significant negative impact on the Company's financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity. At March 31, 2001, receivables from the Company's ten
largest customers accounted for approximately 41% of total customer accounts
receivable. Fiscal 2001 sales to, and March 31, 2001 receivables from, the
Company's largest customer, Rite Aid Corporation, represented approximately 16%
of consolidated sales and 10% of consolidated customer accounts receivable,
respectively. Receivables from the Company's second largest customer represented
approximately 11% of consolidated customer accounts receivable. No other
customers represented greater than 10% of consolidated sales or customer
accounts receivable.

     At March 31, 2001, the Company had an $850 million committed receivables
sales facility which was fully available. The Company's accounts receivable
sales program accommodated the sale by the Company in March, 1999 of $400.0
million of undivided interests in the Company's trade accounts receivable. The
program qualifies for sale treatment under SFAS No. 125, "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities"
and under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting For Transfers and Servicing Financial Assets
and Extinguishments of Liabilities which replaces SFAS No. 125 effective in the
Company's fiscal year 2002. The sales were recorded at the estimated fair values
of the receivables sold, reflecting discounts for the time value of money based
on U.S. commercial paper rates and estimated loss provisions.

     The Company's Canadian subsidiary, Medis, has agreements with certain of
its customers' financial institutions under which Medis has guaranteed the
repurchase of certain inventory at a discount in the event the customers are
unable to meet certain obligations to the financial institutions. Medis has also
agreed to guarantee credit facilities for certain customers and the payment of a
major customer's leases. The amounts related to these guarantees were
approximately $22.8 million for credit facilities and $7.6 million for lease
obligations at March 31, 2001.

     The Company's U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business has entered into
agreements to provide loans to certain customers, some of which are on a
revolving basis. As of March 31, 2001, a total of $94.2 million of these
commitments remained outstanding and were reflected as other receivables and
notes receivable on the

                                       F-46

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

consolidated balance sheet. Under the terms of the loans, the Company has a
security interest in the assets of the customers. In addition, the Company has
agreed to guarantee customer loans of $36.6 million.

 6. RECEIVABLES



     The allowances are for uncollectible accounts, discounts, returns, refunds,
customer settlements and other adjustments.

 7. INVENTORIES

     The LIFO method was used to value approximately 90%, 87% and 86% of the
inventories at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Inventories before
the LIFO cost adjustment, which approximates replacement cost, were $5,358.4
million, $4,397.2 million and $3,762.5 million at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET



 9. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     The net assets (liabilities) of discontinued operations were as follows:



     At March 31, 2001 and 2000, the net liabilities of discontinued operations
are included in other current liabilities. Assets consist primarily of land held
for sale and investments in affiliates. Liabilities consist primarily of other
accrued liabilities.

                                       F-47

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     At March 31, 1999, assets of discontinued operations consist primarily of
receivables, inventory, property, plant and equipment and goodwill of the Water
Products business. Liabilities of discontinued operations consist primarily of
accounts payable and other accrued liabilities of the Water Products business.

     Results of discontinued operations were as follows:



     Discontinued operations in fiscal 2000 and 1999 include the operations of
the Water Products business.

10. LONG-TERM DEBT



     The Company has a revolving credit agreement with several domestic and
international banks whereby the banks commit $400 million borrowing availability
at the reference rate (8% at March 31, 2001) or money market-based rates. The
agreement expires in fiscal 2004. The Company has an additional $825 million
available for general purposes under a facility with a duration of 364 days or
less which is due to expire on October 9, 2001. At March 31, 2001, the Company
had $1.225 billion of unused borrowing capacity under these agreements, which
are used primarily to support commercial paper borrowings. In addition, the
Company has an $850 million committed receivables sales facility, which was
fully available as of March 31, 2001. The Company anticipates that this facility
will be renewed prior to its termination date of June 15, 2001.
                                       F-48

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     In fiscal 2000, the Company issued fixed-rate debt totaling $335.0 million.
The 8.91% Series A notes mature on February 28, 2005, the 8.95% Series B notes
mature on February 28, 2007 and the 9.13% Series C notes mature on February 28,
2010. Interest only is payable semiannually.

     Total interest payments were $114.5 million, $115.0 million and $117.8
million in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     ESOP related debt (see Note 16) is payable to banks and insurance
companies, bears interest at rates ranging from 8.6% fixed rate to approximately
89% of LIBOR or LIBOR +0.4% and is due in semi-annual and annual installments
through 2009.

     In connection with the 4.5% exchangeable subordinated debentures, the March
31, 2001 marketable securities balance included $4.0 million held in trust as
exchange property for the exchangeable subordinated debentures. Through March
31, 2001, the Company had repurchased $173.5 million of the exchangeable
subordinated debentures.

     In fiscal 1998, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements,
each with a notional principal amount of $150 million. The swaps were scheduled
to mature in 2005 and 2008 and swap fixed interest payments of 6.30% and 6.40%,
respectively, for floating interest payments based on a LIBOR index. These swaps
included an imbedded interest rate cap of 7%. In February 2001, the Company paid
$8.2 million to terminate the swaps. The termination fee is being amortized on
the straight-line method over the remaining life of the underlying debt.

     In fiscal 1998, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a currency swap
agreement to convert the $125 million proceeds from the issuance of senior notes
to $173 million Canadian currency, which was used to pay down short-term
borrowings of the Company's Canadian subsidiary, Medis. This swap matures on
November 1, 2002.

     Certain debt agreements require the Company to maintain certain financial
ratios, including a limitation that the Company's total debt not exceed 56.5% of
total capitalization (total debt plus equity). At March 31, 2001, the Company
was in compliance with its capitalization covenant and other financial
covenants.

     Aggregate annual payments on long-term debt and capitalized lease
obligations (see Financial Note 12) for the years ending March 31 are:



11. CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED SECURITIES

     In February 1997, a wholly-owned subsidiary trust of the Company issued 4
million shares of preferred securities to the public and 123,720 common
securities to the Company, which are convertible at the holder's option into
McKesson HBOC common stock. The proceeds of such issuances were invested by the
trust in $206,186,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5% Convertible
Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2027 (the "Debentures"). The Debentures
represent the sole assets of the trust. The Debentures mature

                                       F-49

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

on June 1, 2027, bear interest at the rate of 5%, payable quarterly, and are
redeemable by the Company at 103.0% of the principal amount.

     Holders of the securities are entitled to cumulative cash distributions at
an annual rate of 5% of the liquidation amount of $50 per security. Each
preferred security is convertible at the rate of 1.3418 shares of McKesson HBOC
common stock, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The preferred
securities will be redeemed upon repayment of the Debentures and are callable by
the Company at 103.0% of the liquidation amount.

     The Company has guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, distributions and
other payments due on the preferred securities (the "Guarantee"). The Guarantee,
when taken together with the Company's obligations under the Debentures, and in
the indenture pursuant to which the Debentures were issued, and the Company's
obligations under the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust governing the
subsidiary trust, provides a full and unconditional guarantee of amounts due on
the preferred securities.

     The Debentures and related trust investment in the Debentures have been
eliminated in consolidation and the preferred securities reflected as
outstanding in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

12. LEASE OBLIGATIONS

     The Company leases facilities and equipment under both capital and
operating leases. Net assets held under capital leases included in property,
plant and equipment were $13.7 million, $9.1 million and $4.4 million at March
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Amortization of capital leases is
included in depreciation expense.

     As of March 31, 2001, future minimum lease payments and sublease rentals in
years ending March 31 are:



     Rental expense was $108.7 million, $108.3 million and $110.0 million in
fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     Most real property leases contain renewal options and provisions requiring
the Company to pay property taxes and operating expenses in excess of base
period amounts.

                                       F-50

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

13. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     At March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the carrying amounts of cash and cash
equivalents, marketable securities, receivables, drafts payable, accounts
payable -- trade and other liabilities approximate their estimated fair values
because of the short maturity of these financial instruments. The estimated fair
values of the Company's remaining financial instruments, as determined under
SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments", were as
follows:



     The estimated fair values of these instruments were determined based on
quoted market prices or market comparables.

     The estimated fair values may not be representative of actual values of the
financial instruments that could have been realized as of March 31, 2001, 2000
or 1999 or that will be realized in the future.

14. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Before giving effect to the acquisitions accounted for as poolings of
interests (see "Acquisitions, Investments and Divestitures" Financial Note 2),
McKesson declared dividends of $0.435 per share and HBOC declared dividends of
$0.04 per share, in fiscal year 1999.

     At March 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, the Company was authorized to issue
100,000,000 shares of series preferred stock ($.01 par value) of which none were
outstanding and 400,000,000 shares of common stock ($.01 par value) of which
approximately 283,983,000 shares, 283,353,000 shares and 280,584,000 shares,
respectively, were outstanding net of treasury stock.

     In October 1994, the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend of
one right (a "Right") for each then outstanding share of common stock and
authorized the issuance of one Right for each share subsequently issued to
purchase, upon the occurrence of certain specified triggering events, a unit
consisting of one hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock. Triggering events include, without limitation, the acquisition
by another entity of 15% or more of the Company's common stock without the prior
approval of the Company's Board. The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects
and will cause substantial dilution to the ownership interest of a person or
group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by the Board.
The Rights expire in 2004 unless redeemed earlier by the Board. As a result of
the two-for-one stock split in fiscal 1998, each share of common stock now has
attached to it one-half of a Right.

                                       F-51

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     The following is the calculation of the basic and diluted per-share
computations for income (loss) from continuing operations:



- ---------------
(1) The diluted share base for fiscal years 2001, 2000 and 1999 excludes 4.1
    million shares, 2.9 million shares and 8.9 million shares related to options
    to purchase common stock, respectively, 5.4 million shares related to trust
    convertible preferred securities in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, and 0.4
    million shares and 0.3 million shares related to restricted stock in fiscal
    2001 and 1999. Additionally, the income available to common stockholders
    excludes dividends on convertible preferred securities of $6.2 million in
    fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. These amounts are excluded due to their
    antidilutive effect.

     The Company has six stock option plans as of March 31, 2001. The Company
has granted options to employees and non-employee directors of the Company as
well as restricted stock awards to employees. The Company has also assumed
approximately 35 option plans in connection with acquisitions. No new options
are granted from these acquired companies' plans. Under the active plans, the
Company was authorized to grant up to 77.2 million shares as of March 31, 2001.

     Options are generally granted for the purchase of shares of common stock at
an exercise price not less than market value on the date of grant. Under the
1998 Canadian Stock Incentive Plan, the Company granted options at below market
value to purchase 20,000 shares, 5,000 shares and 15,000 shares in fiscal 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively. Most option grants under the 1997 Non-Employee
Director's Equity compensation and Deferral Plan vest immediately. Other options
generally vest over four years and all options expire ten years after the grant
date.

                                       F-52

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     The following is a summary of options outstanding at March 31, 2001:



     Expiration dates range from April 1, 2001 to March 28, 2011.

     As a result of the change of control of McKesson at the time of the HBOC
Transaction on January 12, 1999, most options granted by McKesson which were
outstanding on that date vested.

     The following is a summary of changes in the options for the stock option
plans:



     Pursuant to SFAS No. 123, the Company has elected to account for its
stock-based compensation plans under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." Accordingly, no compensation cost
has been recognized in the consolidated financial statements for the stock
option plans, except an insignificant amount related to the two Canadian grants
noted above. Had compensation cost for the stock option plan been recognized
based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those plans,
consistent with the provision of SFAS No. 123, net income (loss) and earnings
(loss) per share would have been as indicated in the table below. Since pro
forma compensation cost relates to all periods over which the awards vest, the
initial impact on pro forma income (loss) from continuing operations may not be

                                       F-53

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

representative of compensation cost in subsequent years, when the effect of
amortization of multiple awards would be reflected.



     Fair values of the options were estimated at the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:



     The weighted average grant date fair values of the options granted during
2001, 2000 and 1999 were $13.17, $11.33 and $24.06 per share, respectively.

     Other Capital included in stockholders' equity, includes notes receivable
from certain of the Company's current or former officers and senior managers
totaling $90.7 million, $94.5 million and $99.0 million at March 31, 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively, related to purchases of Company common stock. Such notes
were issued for amounts equal to the market value of the stock on the date of
the purchase and are full recourse to the borrower. As of March 31, 2001, the
value of the underlying stock collateral was $44.7 million. The notes bear
interest at rates ranging from 4.7% to 8.0% and are due at various dates through
February 2005.

15. INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes related to continuing operations consists of
the following:



                                       F-54

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     Foreign pre-tax earnings were $30.8 million, $40.5 million and $24.6
million in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     The principal items accounting for the difference in income taxes on income
from continuing operations before income taxes computed at the Federal statutory
income tax rate and income taxes are as follows:



     Income tax payments were $330.5 million, $121.6 million and $175.8 million
in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     At March 31, 2001, the Company had $51.1 million in cumulative
undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company's earnings
from these foreign subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested
and, accordingly, no provision for federal and state income taxes has been made
for these earnings. These earnings could become subject to income tax if they
were remitted to the Company as dividends or if a deemed distribution occurs.
Determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability on these
undistributed earnings is not practicable; however, the Company believes that
U.S. foreign tax credits would largely eliminate any U.S. tax and offset any
foreign withholding tax.

                                       F-55

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     As of March 31, the deferred tax balances consisted of the following:



16. POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

  Pension Plans

     Prior to December 31, 1996, substantially all full-time employees of
McKesson were covered under either the Company-sponsored defined benefit
retirement plan or by bargaining unit sponsored multi-employer plans. On
December 31, 1996, the Company amended the Company-sponsored defined benefit
plan to freeze all plan benefits based on each employee's plan compensation and
creditable service accrued to that date. Accordingly, employees joining the
Company after December 31, 1996, and employees of companies acquired after
December 31, 1996, are not eligible for coverage under the Company-sponsored
defined benefit retirement

                                       F-56

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

plan. The benefits for such Company-sponsored plans are based primarily on age
of employees at date of retirement, years of service and employees' pay during
the five years prior to retirement. On January 1, 1997, the Company amended the
ESOP to provide future additional benefits in place of a portion of those
benefits previously provided by the pension plan.

     The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the
Company-sponsored defined benefit retirement plan and executive supplemental
retirement plans:



     The following table provides the amounts recognized in the Company's
consolidated balance sheet:



                                       F-57

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     The following table provides components of the net periodic pension expense
(income) for the Company sponsored defined benefit retirement plan and executive
supplemental retirement plans:



- ---------------
(1) Primarily associated with changes in executive management, based on the
    terms of employment contracts.

     Assets of the plans are measured on a calendar year basis.

     The projected unit credit method is utilized for measuring net periodic
pension cost over the employees' service life. Costs are funded based on the
recommendations of independent actuaries. The projected benefit obligations for
Company-sponsored plans were determined using discount rates of 7.5% at December
31, 2000, 7.75% at December 31, 1999 and 7% at December 31, 1998 and an assumed
increase in future compensation levels of 4.0% for all periods presented. The
expected long-term rate of return on assets used to determine pension expense
was 9.75% for all periods.

     The assets of the plan consist primarily of listed common stocks and bonds
for which fair value is determined based on quoted market prices.

  Profit-Sharing Investment Plan

     Retirement benefits for employees not covered by collective bargaining
arrangements include a supplementary contributory profit sharing investment plan
("PSIP"). The leveraged ESOP portion of the PSIP has purchased an aggregate of
24.3 million shares of common stock since inception. These purchases have been
financed by 10 to 20-year loans from or guaranteed by the Company. The Company's
related receivables from the ESOP have been classified as a reduction of
stockholders' equity. The loans will be repaid by the ESOP from common dividends
on shares not yet allocated to participants, interest earnings on cash balances
not yet allocated to participants, common dividends on certain allocated shares
and future Company cash contributions. The ESOP loan maturities and rates are
identical to the terms of related Company borrowings (see Financial Note 10).

     After-tax ESOP expense, including interest expense on ESOP debt, was $10.5
million, $12.4 million and $1.4 million, in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. The higher ESOP expense in fiscal 2001 and 2000 was required to
maintain a desired level of benefits provided to employees despite a decline in
the stock price. Additional tax benefits received on dividends paid on
unallocated shares of $0.9 million, $1.1 million and $2.2 million in fiscal
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, have been credited directly to retained
earnings in accordance with SFAS No. 109. Contribution expense for the PSIP in
fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 was all ESOP related and is reflected in the amounts
above. Approximately 1.5 million, 2.6 million and 0.6 million common shares were
allocated to plan participants in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     Through March 31, 2001, 16.2 million common shares have been allocated to
plan participants. At March 31, 2001, 8.1 million common shares in the ESOP
Trust had not been allocated to plan participants.

                                       F-58

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

  Health Care and Life Insurance

     In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides health care
and life insurance benefits for certain retired employees. The Company's policy
is to fund these benefits as claims are paid. In 1989, the Company implemented
an ESOP to provide funds at retirement that could be used for medical costs or
health care coverage.

     Expenses for postretirement health care and life insurance benefits
consisted of the following:



     The following table presents a reconciliation of the postretirement health
care and life insurance benefits obligation at March 31:



     The assumed health care cost trend rates used in measuring the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 5.0% for all periods presented. The health
care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts
reported. Increasing the trend rate by one percentage point would increase the
accumulated postretirement health care and life insurance obligation as of March
31, 2001 by $7.7 million and the related fiscal 2001 aggregate service and
interest costs by $0.7 million. Decreasing the trend rate by one percentage
point would reduce the accumulated postretirement health care and life insurance
obligation as of March 31, 2001 by $7.3 million and the related fiscal 2001
aggregate service and interest cost by $0.6 million. The discount rates used in
determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation were 7.5%, 7.75%
and 7% at March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     The Company has an employee discount stock purchase plan for eligible
employees. Under the plan, participants may authorize payroll deductions of up
to 15% of their total cash compensation to purchase the Company's common stock
at a 15% discount. The plan has 24-month offering periods with purchases made

                                       F-59

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

every 6 months. Purchases are made at the lesser of the closing stock price on
the first day of the offering period or each purchase date.

17. SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS

     The Company's operating segments include Health Care Supply Management and
Health Care Information Technology. In evaluating financial performance,
management focuses on operating profit as a segment's measure of profit or loss.
Operating profit is income before interest expense, corporate interest income,
taxes on income, and allocation of certain corporate revenues and expenses. The
Company's Corporate segment is included in the presentation of reportable
segment information since certain revenues and expenses of this division are not
allocated separately to the operating segments.

     The Health Care Supply Management segment includes the Company's U.S.
pharmaceutical, health care products and medical-surgical supplies distribution
businesses. U.S. Health Care Supply Management operations also include the
manufacture and sale of automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems for
hospitals and retail pharmacies, medical management services and tools to payors
and providers, marketing and other support services to pharmaceutical
manufacturers, consulting and outsourcing services to pharmacies, and
distribution of first-aid products to industrial and commercial customers.
Health Care Supply Management also includes the Company's international
distribution operations (including Canada and an equity interest in a Mexican
pharmaceutical distribution business).

     The Health Care Information Technology segment delivers enterprise-wide
patient care, clinical, financial, supply chain, managed care, payor and
strategic management software solutions, as well as networking technologies,
including wireless capabilities, electronic commerce, outsourcing and other
services to health care organizations throughout the U.S. and certain foreign
countries.

     The Corporate segment includes expenses associated with corporate functions
and projects, certain employee benefits, the investment in Health Nexis and an
inter-segment elimination in fiscal 1999.

     During fiscal 2001, the Company announced the formation of a new business
segment, iMcKesson, to focus on healthcare applications using the Internet and
other emerging technologies. iMcKesson included selected net assets from the
former e-Health, Health Care Supply Management and Health Care Information
Technology segments and fiscal 2001 acquisitions of strategic investments and
businesses. Subsequently, in February 2001, the Company announced the
restructuring of the iMcKesson business unit by moving responsibility for
iMcKesson's medical management business to the Health Care Supply Management
segment and the physician services business to the Health Care Information
Technology segment.

     The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies.

                                       F-60

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     Financial information relating to the Company's reportable operating
segments as of and for the years ended March 31, is presented below:



                                       F-61

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

- ---------------
(1) Net of $3.0 million inter-segment elimination related to a Health Care
    Information Technology segment software sale to the Health Care Supply
    Management segment for use in that segment's consulting and outsourcing
    business.

(2) Includes $5.9 million, $16.9 million and $13.3 million of net pre-tax
    earnings from equity investments in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999,
    respectively.

(3) Interest expense is shown net of corporate interest income.

(4) Includes amortization of intangibles, capitalized software held for sale and
    capitalized software for internal use.

     Revenues, operating profit and long-lived assets by geographic areas:



- ---------------
(1) International primarily represents a wholly-owned subsidiary which
    distributes pharmaceuticals in Canada, an equity investment in a
    pharmaceutical distributor in Mexico, and an information technology
    businesses in the United Kingdom and Europe.

18. OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

  I. Accounting Litigation

     Since the Company's announcements in April, May and July of 1999 that the
Company had determined that certain software sales transactions in its
Information Technology Business Unit, formerly HBOC, were improperly recorded as
revenue and reversed, as of April 30, 2001, eighty-five lawsuits have been filed
against the Company, certain of the Company's or HBOC's current or former
officers or directors, and other defendants including, Bear Stearns & Co., Inc.
("Bear Stearns"), and Arthur Andersen LLP ("Arthur Andersen").

     A. Federal Actions

     Sixty-five of these actions have been filed in Federal Court (the "Federal
Actions"). Of these, fifty-nine were filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, one in the Northern District of Illinois (which
has been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice), one in the Northern District
of Georgia (which has been transferred to the Northern District of California),
one in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (which has been transferred to the
Northern District of California), two in the Western District

                                       F-62

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

of Louisiana (which have been transferred to the Northern District of
California) and one in the District of Arizona (which has been transferred to
the Northern District of California).

     On November 2, 1999, the Honorable Ronald M. Whyte of the Northern District
of California issued an order consolidating fifty-three of these actions into
one action entitled In re McKesson HBOC, Inc. Securities Litigation (Case No.
C-99-20743 RMW) (the "Consolidated Action"), and by order dated December 22,
1999, appointed the New York State Common Retirement Fund as lead plaintiff
("Lead Plaintiff") and approved Lead Plaintiffs' choice of counsel. Judge
Whyte's November 2, 1999 order also provided that related cases transferred to
the Northern District of California shall be consolidated with the Consolidated
Action. Judge Whyte's December 22 order also consolidated an individual action,
Jacobs v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (C-99-21192 RMW), with the Consolidated
Action. On September 21, 2000, the plaintiffs in Jacobs filed an individual
action in the Northern District of California entitled Jacobs v. HBO & Company
(Case No. C-00-20974 RMW), which is to be consolidated with the Consolidated
Action and which purports to state claims under Sections 11 and 12(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"), Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and various state law causes of action. By
order dated February 7, 2000, Judge Whyte coordinated a class action alleging
ERISA claims, Chang v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. C-00-20030 RMW) and
a shareholder derivative action that had been filed in the Northern District
under the caption Cohen v. McCall et. al. (Case No. C-99-20916 RMW) with the
Consolidated Action.

     Lead Plaintiff filed an Amended and Consolidated Class Action Complaint
(the "ACCAC") on February 25, 2000. The ACCAC generally alleged that defendants
violated the federal securities laws in connection with the events leading to
the Company's announcements in April, May and July, 1999. On September 28, 2000,
Judge Whyte dismissed all of the ACCAC claims against McKesson under Section 11
of the Securities Act with prejudice, dismissed a claim under Section 14(a) of
the Exchange Act with leave to amend and declined to dismiss a claim against
McKesson under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act.

     On November 14, 2000, Lead Plaintiff filed its Second Amended and
Consolidated Class Action Complaint ("SAC"). As with its ACCAC, Lead Plaintiff's
SAC generally alleges that the defendants named therein violated the federal
securities laws in connection with the events leading to the Company's
announcements in April, May and July, 1999. The SAC names the Company, HBOC,
certain current or former officers or directors of the Company or HBOC, Arthur
Andersen and Bear Stearns as defendants. The SAC purports to state claims
against the Company under Sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the Exchange Act.

     On January 18, 2001, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the claim under
Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act in its entirety, and the claim under Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act to the extent it is based on the statements or conduct
of the Company prior to the Merger. HBOC also filed its own motion to dismiss
the claim based on Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act insofar as that claim is
asserted on behalf of McKesson shareholders. Those motions were heard on March
23, 2001, and Judge Whyte has not yet issued an order.

     On January 11, 2001, the Company filed an action in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of California against the Lead Plaintiff in the
Consolidated Action individually, and as a representative of a defendant class
of former HBOC shareholders who exchanged HBOC shares for Company shares in the
Merger, McKesson HBOC, Inc. v. New York State Common Retirement Fund, Inc. et
al. (Case No. C01-20021 RMW) (the "Complaint and Counterclaim"). In the
Complaint and Counterclaim, the Company alleges that the exchanged HBOC shares
were artificially inflated due to undisclosed accounting improprieties, and that
the exchange ratio therefore provided more shares to former HBOC shareholders
than would have otherwise been the case. In this action, the Company seeks to
recover the "unjust enrichment" received by those HBOC shareholders who
exchanged more than 20,000 HBOC shares in the Merger. The Company does not
allege any wrongdoing by these shareholders. Lead Plaintiff's motion to dismiss
the Complaint and Counterclaim was heard on March 23, 2001, and Judge Whyte has
not yet issued an order.

                                       F-63

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

     Two other individual actions, Bea v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No.
C-0020072 RMV), and Cater v. McKesson Corporation et al. (Case No. C-00-20327
RMW), have also been filed in the Northern District of California. By
stipulation, Bea has been consolidated with the Consolidated Action and Cater
has been stayed pending resolution of the Company's motion to dismiss the
Consolidated Complaint. One other individual action, Baker v. McKesson HBOC,
Inc. et al. (Case No. CV 00-0188) was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Louisiana. The Company moved to transfer Baker to the
Northern District of California, together with a parallel state court action,
Baker v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (filed as Case No. 199018; Case No.
CV-00-0522 after removal), which had been removed to federal court. Both of the
Baker cases have been transferred to the Northern District of California where
they have been consolidated with the Consolidated Action. An additional action,
Rosenberg v. McCall et al. (Case No. 1:99-CV-1447 JEC) was filed in the Northern
District of Georgia and subsequently transferred to the Northern District of
California, but that action names only two former officers and does not name the
Company. Finally, on July 24, 2000, an action captioned Hess v. McKesson HBOC,
Inc. et al. was filed in state court in Arizona (Case No. C-20003862) on behalf
of former shareholders of Ephrata Diamond Spring Water Company ("Ephrata") who
acquired McKesson shares in exchange for their Ephrata stock when McKesson
acquired Ephrata in January, 1999. On August 24, 2000, the Company removed the
Hess action to the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, and
on March 28, 2001, the District Court in Arizona granted the Company's motion to
transfer the case to the Northern District of California.

     B. State Actions

     Twenty actions have also been filed in various state courts in California,
Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana and Pennsylvania (the "State Actions").
Like the Consolidated Action, the State Actions generally allege misconduct by
the defendants in connection with the events leading to the Company's need to
restate its financial statements.

     Two of the State Actions are derivative actions: Ash, et al. v. McCall, et
al. (Case No. 17132), filed in the Delaware Chancery Court and Mitchell v.
McCall et al. (Case. No. 304415), filed in California Superior Court, City and
County of San Francisco. The Company moved to dismiss both of these actions and
to stay the Mitchell action in favor of the earlier filed Ash and Cohen
derivative actions. Plaintiffs in Mitchell agreed to defer any action by the
court on the Company's motions pending resolution of the Company's dismissal
motions in Ash. On September 15, 2000, the Ash court dismissed all causes of
action with leave to replead certain of the dismissed claims, and on January 22,
2001, the Ash plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint which is presently the
subject of the Company's motions to dismiss.

     Five of the State Actions are class actions. Three of these were filed in
Delaware Chancery Court: Derdiger v. Tallman et al. (Case No. 17276), Carroll v.
McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 17454), and Kelly v. McKesson HBOC, Inc., et al.
(Case No. 17282 NC). Two additional actions were filed in Delaware Superior
Court: Edmondson v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 99-951) and Caravetta v.
McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 00C-04-214 WTQ). The Carroll and Kelly actions
have been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. The Company has removed
Edmondson to Federal Court in Delaware where plaintiffs have filed a motion to
remand, which is pending. The Company's motions to stay the Derdiger and
Caravetta actions in favor of proceedings in the federal Consolidated Action
have been granted.

     Thirteen of the State Actions are individual actions which have been filed
in various state courts. Four of these were filed in the California Superior
Court, City and County of San Francisco: Yurick v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al.
(Case No. 303857), The State of Oregon by and through the Oregon Public
Employees Retirement Board v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 307619), Utah
State Retirement Board v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 311269), and
Minnesota State Board of Investment v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No.
311747). In Yurick, the trial court sustained the Company's demurrer to the
original complaint without leave to amend with respect to all causes of action,
except the claims for common

                                       F-64

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

law fraud and negligent misrepresentation as to which amendment was allowed. The
Court also stayed Yurick pending the commencement of discovery in the
Consolidated Action, but allowed the filing of an amended complaint. The
Company's demurrer to that amended pleading was heard on May 23, 2001 and no
order has yet been issued. On May 23, 2001, the California Court of Appeals
affirmed the Yurick trial court's order dismissing claims against certain of the
individual defendants in the action without leave to amend. The Oregon, Utah and
Minnesota actions referenced above are individual securities actions filed in
the California Superior Court for the City and County of San Francisco by
out-of-state pension funds. Plaintiffs in each of those actions are in the
process of filing amended complaints, and action on the Company's motions
seeking stays of those actions and demurrers to the prior complaints has been
suspended pending defendants' responses to those amended pleadings.

     Ten individual actions have been filed in various state courts outside of
California. Five of these cases have been filed in Georgia state courts: Moulton
v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 98-13176-9), involving a former HBOC
employee's claim for unpaid commissions, claims under Georgia's securities and
racketeering laws, as well as various common law causes of action, has been
settled and dismissed with prejudice. Powell v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case
No. 1999CV-15443), involving a former HBOC employee's claims for unpaid
commissions, claims under Georgia's securities and racketeering laws, as well as
various common law causes of action, was dismissed by plaintiff and refiled as
Case No. 2000-CV-27864 and the Company's motions to dismiss or stay that action
are presently pending. In Adler v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. (Case No. 99-C-7980-3), a
former HBOC shareholder asserts a claim for common law fraud. The Georgia Court
of Appeals has granted interlocutory review of an order issued in Adler and the
prior June, 2001, trial date has been vacated. Suffolk Partners Limited
Partnership et al. v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No.00 VS 010469A) and
Curran Partners, L.P. v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (Case No. 00 VS-010801) are
related actions brought on behalf of individual shareholders and are based on
Georgia securities, racketeering and common law claims. The Company has moved to
stay both the Suffolk and Curran actions in favor of proceedings in the federal
Consolidated Action. Those motions have been heard by the Court and no order has
yet been issued.

     Three individual state court cases have been filed outside of California.
Grant v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. (C.A. No. 99-03978) was filed on May 12, 1999 in
the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Chester County. The Grant case relates
to the Company's acquisition of Keystone/Ozone Pure Water Company ("Keystone").
Plaintiffs are former shareholders of Keystone who received McKesson shares in
exchange for their shares in Keystone pursuant to a merger agreement between
plaintiffs, McKesson and a McKesson subsidiary. On March 6, 2001, the Court
denied the Company's motion to stay and dismissed with prejudice all plaintiffs'
claims except for those based on breach of contract and negligent
misrepresentation. The Company answered the Grant complaint on March 26, 2001.
On September 28, 1999, an action was filed in Delaware Superior Court under the
caption Kelly v. McKesson HBOC, Inc. et al. (C.A. No. 99C-09-265 WCC).
Plaintiffs in Kelly are former shareholders of KWS&P/SFA, Inc., which merged
into the Company after the Merger. Plaintiffs assert claims under the federal
securities laws, as well as claims for breach of contract and breach of the duty
of good faith and fair dealing. The Company's motion to dismiss and plaintiffs'
motion for summary judgment remain pending before the Court. On October 19,
1999, an individual action was filed in Colorado District Court, Boulder County,
under the caption American Healthcare Fund II v. HBO & Company et al. (Case No.
00-CV-1762). Plaintiffs in American Healthcare are former shareholders of Access
Health, Inc., a company acquired by HBOC prior to the Merger, and assert claims
for breach of the merger contract and related claims. The Company has answered
an amended complaint and filed a counterclaim against the plaintiffs alleging
that, as HBOC shareholders exchanging HBOC shares for McKesson shares in the
Merger, plaintiffs were unjustly enriched. Discovery has commenced and trial is
currently set for September 10, 2001.

     The previously reported investigations by the United States Attorney's
Office and the Securities and Exchange Commission are continuing. On May 15,
2000, the United States Attorney's Office filed a one-
                                       F-65

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

count information against former HBOC officer, Dominick DeRosa, charging Mr.
DeRosa with aiding and abetting securities fraud, and on May 15, 2000, Mr.
DeRosa entered a guilty plea to that charge. On September 28, 2000, an
indictment was unsealed in the Northern District of California against former
HBOC officer, Jay P. Gilbertson, and former Company and HBOC Officer, Albert J.
Bergonzi (United States v. Bergonzi, et al., Case No. CR-00-0505). On that same
date, a civil complaint was filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission
against Mr. Gilbertson, Mr. Bergonzi and Mr. DeRosa (Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Gilbertson, et al., Case No. C-00-3570.) Mr. DeRosa has settled
with the Securities Exchange Commission without admitting or denying the
substantive allegations of the complaint. On January 10, 2001, the grand jury
returned a superseding indictment in the Northern District of California against
Messrs. Gilbertson and Bergonzi (United States v. Bergonzi, et al., Case No.
CR-00-0505).

     The Company does not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the
outcome or resolution of the Accounting Litigation proceedings, or to estimate
the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings.
In addition, the timing of the final resolution of these proceedings is
uncertain. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include
judgments against the Company or settlements that could require substantial
payments by the Company, which could have a material adverse impact on the
Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

  II. Other Litigation and Claims:

     In addition to commitments and obligations in the ordinary course of
business, the Company is subject to various claims, other pending and potential
legal actions for product liability and other damages, investigations relating
to governmental laws and regulations and other matters arising out of the normal
conduct of the Company's business. These include:

     A. Antitrust Matters

     The Company currently is a defendant in numerous civil antitrust actions
filed since 1993 in federal and state courts by retail pharmacies. The federal
cases have been coordinated for pretrial purposes in the United States District
Court in the Northern District of Illinois and are known as MDL 997. MDL 997
consists of a consolidated class action (the "Federal Class Action") as well as
approximately 109 additional actions brought by approximately 3,500 individual
retail, chain and supermarket pharmacies (the "Individual Actions"). There are
numerous other defendants in these actions including several pharmaceutical
manufacturers and several other wholesale distributors. These cases allege, in
essence, that the defendants have violated the Sherman Act by conspiring to fix
the prices of brand name pharmaceuticals sold to plaintiffs at artificially
high, and non-competitive levels, especially as compared with the prices charged
to mail order pharmacies, managed care organizations and other institutional
buyers. On January 19, 1999, the District Court entered its written opinion and
judgment granting defendants' motion for a judgment as a matter of law. On July
13, 1999, the Seventh Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment as to the
dismissal of the claims against the wholesalers. The wholesalers' motion for
summary judgment in the Individual Actions has been granted. Plaintiffs have
appealed to the Seventh Circuit. Most of the individual cases brought by chain
stores have been settled.

     State court antitrust cases against the Company are currently pending in
California and Mississippi. The state cases are based on essentially the same
facts alleged in the Federal Class Action and Individual Actions and assert
violations of state antitrust and/or unfair competition laws. The case in
Superior Court for the State of California, City and County of San Francisco is
referred to as Coordinated Special Proceeding, Pharmaceutical Cases I, II & III.
The case is trailing MDL 997. A case filed in Santa Clara County (Paradise
Drugs, et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, et al., Case No. CV793852) was coordinated
with the case pending in San Francisco. The case in Mississippi (Montgomery Drug
Co., et al. v. The Upjohn Co., et al.) is pending in the

                                       F-66

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

Chancery Court of Prentiss County Mississippi. The Chancery Court has held that
the case may not be maintained as a class action.

     In each of the cases, plaintiffs seek remedies in the form of injunctive
relief and unquantified monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs. Plaintiffs
in the California cases also seek restitution. In addition, treble damages are
sought in the Federal Class Action, the Individual Actions and the California
case, and statutory penalties of $500 per violation are sought in the
Mississippi case. The Company has entered into a judgment sharing agreement with
certain pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants, which provides generally that
the Company (together with the other wholesale distributor defendants) will be
held harmless by such pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants and will be
indemnified against the costs of adverse judgments, if any, against the
wholesaler and manufacturers in these or similar actions, in excess of $1
million in the aggregate per wholesale distributor defendant.

     B. FoxMeyer Litigation

     In January 1997, the Company and twelve pharmaceutical manufacturers (the
"Manufacturer Defendants") were named as defendants in the matter of FoxMeyer
Health Corporation vs. McKesson, et al. (Case No. 97 00311) filed in the
District Court in Dallas County, Texas ("the Texas Action"). Plaintiff (the
parent corporation of FoxMeyer Drug Company and FoxMeyer Corporation,
collectively "FoxMeyer Corporation") has alleged that, among other things, the
Company (i) defrauded Plaintiff, (ii) competed unfairly and tortiously
interfered with FoxMeyer Corporation's business operations, and (iii) conspired
with the Manufacturer Defendants, all in order to destroy FoxMeyer Corporation's
business, restrain trade and monopolize the marketplace, and allow the Company
to purchase that business at a distressed price. Plaintiff seeks relief against
all defendants in the form of compensatory damages of at least $400 million,
punitive damages, attorneys' fees and costs. The Company answered the complaint,
denying the allegations and removed the case to federal bankruptcy court in
Dallas.

     In March 1997, the Company and the Manufacturer Defendants filed a
complaint in intervention against FoxMeyer Health (now known as Avatex
Corporation) in the action filed against Avatex by the FoxMeyer Unsecured
Creditors Committee in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware. The complaint in intervention seeks declaratory relief and an order
enjoining Avatex from pursuing the Texas Action.

     In November 1998, the Delaware court granted the Company's motion for
summary judgment as to the first three counts asserted in the Texas Action on
the ground of judicial estoppel. The Company filed a renewed motion for summary
judgment on the four remaining counts of Avatex's complaint in the Texas Action
which was denied without prejudice by the Delaware court on August 9, 1999. In
addition, the Company filed cross-claims against the Trustee and debtors seeking
the same relief as sought in the Company's complaint against Avatex. Based on
the order granting summary judgment as to the first three counts, the Texas
bankruptcy court dismissed those counts with prejudice and ordered the Texas
Action remanded to state court. On November 30, 1998, the Company and the other
Defendants filed a notice of appeal to the District Court from the remand ruling
as well as the August 1997 ruling denying defendants' motion to transfer the
Texas Action to Delaware. In addition, the Company has filed a counter-claim and
cross-claim against Avatex and Messrs. Estrin, Butler and Massman in the Texas
Action, asserting various claims of misrepresentation and breach of contract.
The District Court upheld the remand order and denied as moot the appeal from
the order denying transfer. A cross-appeal by Avatex from the order dismissing
the first three counts with prejudice failed, as the District Court affirmed the
Bankruptcy Court's dismissal by order dated March 28, 2001. The Company and
several of the other defendants appealed to the Court of Appeals the ruling
upholding the order denying transfer but subsequently moved to dismiss the
appeal with prejudice, which motion was granted and the appeal was dismissed on
October 4, 1999. As a result, the Texas Action is

                                       F-67

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

now pending in Texas state court, and the parties presently are engaged in
discovery on the merits of the various claims asserted in the Texas Action.

     C. Product Liability Litigation

     The Company has been named as a defendant, or has received from customers
tenders of defense, in fifteen pending cases alleging injury due to the diet
drug combination of fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine and phentermine. All of the
cases are pending in the state courts of California, Nebraska and New Jersey.
The Company's tender of the cases to the manufacturers of the drugs has been
accepted and the manufacturer is paying for counsel and fully indemnifying the
Company for judgments or settlements arising from its distribution of the
manufacturer's products.

     Certain subsidiaries of the Company (i.e. MGM and RedLine, collectively the
"Subsidiaries") are two of the defendants in approximately ninety cases in which
plaintiffs claim that they were injured due to exposure, over many years, to the
latex proteins in gloves manufactured by numerous manufacturers and distributed
by a number of distributors, including the Subsidiaries. Efforts to resolve
tenders of defense to their suppliers are continuing and a tentative final
agreement has been reached with one major supplier. The Subsidiaries' insurers
are providing coverage for these cases, subject to the applicable deductibles.

     There is one remaining state court class action in South Carolina filed
against MGM on behalf of all health care workers in that state who suffered
accidental needle sticks that exposed them to potentially contaminated bodily
fluids, arising from MGM's distribution of allegedly defective syringes. MGM's
suppliers of the syringes are also named defendants in this action. The tender
of all cases has been accepted by the two major suppliers. By this acceptance,
these suppliers are paying for separate distributors' counsel and have agreed to
fully indemnify the Company for any judgments in these cases arising from its
distribution of their products.

     The Company, along with 134 other companies, has been named in a lawsuit
brought by the Lemelson Medical, Educational & Research Foundation ("the
Foundation") alleging that the Company and its subsidiaries are infringing seven
(7) U.S. patents relating to common bar code scanning technology and its use for
the automated management and control of product inventory, warehousing,
distribution and point-of-sale transactions. The Foundation seeks to enter into
a license agreement with the Company, the lump sum fee for which would be based
upon a fraction of a percent of the Company's overall revenues over the past ten
years. Due to the pendency of earlier litigation brought against the Foundation
attacking the validity of the patents at issue, the court has stayed the action
until the conclusion of the earlier case. The Company is assessing its potential
exposure and evaluating the Foundations' claim with the assistance of expert
patent counsel, after which it will determine an appropriate course of action.

     D. Environmental Matters

     Primarily as a result of the operation of its former chemical businesses,
which were divested in fiscal 1987, the Company is involved in various matters
pursuant to environmental laws and regulations:

     The Company has received claims and demands from governmental agencies
relating to investigative and remedial action purportedly required to address
environmental conditions alleged to exist at five sites where the Company (or
entities acquired by the Company) formerly conducted operations; and the
Company, by administrative order or otherwise, has agreed to take certain
actions at those sites, including soil and groundwater remediation.

     The current estimate (determined by the Company's environmental staff, in
consultation with outside environmental specialists and counsel) of the upper
limit of the Company's range of reasonably possible remediation costs for these
five sites is approximately $13 million, net of approximately $1.5 million which
third parties have agreed to pay in settlement or which the Company expects,
based either on agreements or
                                       F-68

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

nonrefundable contributions which are ongoing, to be contributed by third
parties. The $13 million is expected to be paid out between April 2001 and March
2029 and is included in the Company's recorded environmental liabilities at
March 31, 2001.

     In addition, the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the "Superfund" law or its state law
equivalent) for environmental assessment and cleanup costs as the result of the
Company's alleged disposal of hazardous substances at 21 sites. With respect to
each of these sites, numerous other PRPs have similarly been designated and,
while the current state of the law potentially imposes joint and several
liability upon PRPs, as a practical matter costs of these sites are typically
shared with other PRPs. The Company's estimated liability at those 21 PRP sites
is approximately $1.5 million. The aggregate settlements and costs paid by the
Company in Superfund matters to date has not been significant. The $1.5 million
is included in the Company's recorded environmental liabilities at March 31,
2001.

     The potential costs to the Company related to environmental matters is
uncertain due to such factors as: the unknown magnitude of possible pollution
and cleanup costs; the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and
regulations and their interpretations; the timing, varying costs and
effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies; the determination of the
Company's liability in proportion to other PRPs; and the extent, if any, to
which such costs are recoverable from insurance or other parties.

     Except as specifically stated above with respect to the litigation matters
summarized in "Accounting Litigation" (section I, above), management believes,
based on current knowledge and the advice of the Company's counsel, that the
outcome of the litigation and governmental proceedings discussed above will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

                                       F-69

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

19. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



                                       F-70

                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.

                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONTINUED)

- ---------------
(1) Includes pre-tax charges of $0.5 million for severance associated with staff
    reductions in the pharmacy management business, and $0.7 million for legal
    costs incurred in connection with the pending litigation resulting from the
    restatement of prior years' financial statements. Also includes a pre-tax
    gain of $7.8 million on the liquidation of an investment, a charge of $2.1
    million for write-off of in-process technology related to the July 2000
    acquisition of MediVation, Inc. and $2.3 million for severance and facility
    closing costs associated with staff reductions in the medical management
    business. These items aggregate to $0.5 million in after-tax income.

(2) Includes pre-tax charges of $0.7 million for asset impairments, $0.5 million
    for severance and $0.5 million for facility closing costs associated with
    the closure of a pharmaceutical distribution center. Also includes charges
    of $98.9 million for impairments of certain equity investments and $1.1
    million for legal costs incurred in connection with the pending securities
    litigation. These costs aggregate to $62.0 million, after-tax.

(3) Includes pre-tax charges of $6.2 million related to closure of facilities in
    the pharmaceutical services business and consolidation of customer service
    centers, staff reductions and adjustments to prior year restructuring
    reserves in the medical/surgical business. Also includes charges related to
    the restructuring of the former iMcKesson business, including the write-off
    of goodwill and intangibles totaling $116.2 million, asset impairments of
    $29.8 million, severance of $29.0 million and exit costs of $9.1 million. In
    addition, includes charges for reserves of $161.1 million for Information
    Technology estimated customer settlements (forgiveness of accounts
    receivable, customer credits and refunds), a $6.7 million loss on
    investments and a $0.7 million charge for legal costs incurred in connection
    with the pending securities litigation. The costs aggregate to $264.2
    million after-tax.

(4) Includes pre-tax charges of $6.3 million incurred in the quarter in
    connection with the restatement of prior years' financial results and
    resulting litigation. Also includes $18.5 million in severance and benefit
    costs resulting from the change in executive management and $1.7 million in
    retention benefits incurred in the quarter, $16.3 million in the aggregate
    after-tax.

(5) Includes pre-tax charges of $8.7 million incurred in connection with the
    restatement of prior years' financial statements and resulting litigation,
    $12.1 million in severance and other costs associated with former employees
    and $2.9 million in acquisition-related costs, $14.6 million in the
    aggregate after-tax.

(6) Includes pre-tax charges for asset impairments, accounts receivable reserves
    and customer settlements in the Health Care Supply Management segment
    totaling $37.0 million related primarily to a prior year implementation of a
    contract system, partially offset by a $5.7 million reduction in prior year
    restructuring reserves. Also includes charges of $61.8 million for a change
    in estimate of the Health Care Information Technology segment's requirements
    for accounts receivable reserves and $1.5 million for the write-off of
    purchased in-process technology related to the Company's November 1999
    acquisition of Abaton.com, partially offset by a $2.7 million reduction in
    prior year accruals for acquisition-related activities. In addition,
    includes net gains of $253.3 million primarily from the exchange and
    subsequent sale of equity investments. These gains are offset in part, by
    charges of $2.4 million for accounting and legal fees and other costs
    incurred in connection with the Company's earlier restatement of prior
    years' financial results and resulting litigation and $0.7 million in
    acquisition-related costs. These aggregate to $100.1 million in after-tax
    income.

                                       F-71


                              MCKESSON HBOC, INC.
                          FINANCIAL NOTES (CONCLUDED)

(7) Includes pre-tax charges totaling $239.8 million for Health Care Information
    Technology segment charges for asset impairments, customer accounts
    receivable and severance primarily associated with product streamlining and
    reorganization. These charges are offset in part, by a $4.3 million
    reduction in prior year accruals for acquisition-related activities. In
    addition, includes pre-tax charges of $1.5 million for asset impairments in
    the Health Care Supply Management segment related primarily to a prior year
    implementation of a contract system. Also includes a pre-tax charge of $2.9
    million for severance and exit-related charges primarily associated with
    segment staff reductions and a $0.9 million reduction in prior year
    restructuring reserves. Also includes Corporate segment pre-tax net gains on
    the sale of equity investments of $5.9 million, partially offset by charges
    of $2.5 million for accounting and legal fees and other costs incurred in
    connection with the Company's earlier restatement of prior years' financial
    results and resulting litigation, costs associated with former employees and
    other acquisition-related costs. These items total $149.6 million,
    after-tax.

(8) After-tax amounts associated with the items discussed in Notes 1-7 above
    amounted to $(325.7) million, $(1.15) per share, and $(80.4) million,
    $(0.29) per share, in fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively.

                                       F-72


                             DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS




                             CORPORATE INFORMATION

COMMON STOCK

     McKesson HBOC, Inc. common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and the Pacific Exchange (ticker symbol MCK) and is quoted in the daily stock
tables carried by most newspapers.

STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION

     First Chicago Trust Co. of New York, a division of EquiServe, P.O. Box
2500, Jersey City, N.J. 07303 acts as transfer agent, registrar, dividend-paying
agent and dividend reinvestment plan agent for McKesson HBOC, Inc., stock and
maintains all registered stockholder records for the Company. For information
about McKesson HBOC, Inc. stock or to request replacement of lost dividend
checks, stock certificates or 1099's, stockholders may call First Chicago's
telephone response center at (800) 756-8200, weekdays 8:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.,
ET. For the hearing impaired call TDD: (201) 222-4955. First Chicago also has a
Web site: http://www.equiserve.com -- that stockholders may use 24 hours a day
to request account information.

DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN

     Dividends are generally paid on the first business day of January, April,
July and October to stockholders of record on the first day of the preceding
month. You may have your dividend check deposited directly into your checking or
savings account. For more information, or to request an enrollment form, call
First Chicago at (800) 756-8200, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.,
ET, or Saturday, 8:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., ET. McKesson HBOC, Inc. Dividend
Reinvestment Plan offers stockholders the opportunity to reinvest dividends in
common stock and to purchase additional common stock without paying brokerage
commissions or other service fees, and to have their stock certificates held in
safekeeping. For more information, or to request an enrollment form, call First
Chicago's telephone response center at (800) 414-6280.

ANNUAL MEETING

     The Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held at 10:00 a.m.,
PDT, on Wednesday July 25, 2001, at the Fairmont Hotel, 950 Mason Street, San
Francisco, California.

