
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

            [ X ]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997

                                       or

          [   ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                         Commission File Number 1-13252


                              McKESSON CORPORATION
                             A Delaware Corporation
                       I.R.S. Employer Number 94-3207296

            McKesson Plaza, One Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94104
                      Telephone - Area Code (415) 983-8300


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    (Name of Each Exchange
  (Title of Each Class)                              on Which Registered)

  Common Stock, $.01 par value                      New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Exchange, Inc.

  Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                   New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No 
                                        ---    ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant
at June 2, 1997:  $2,628,255,561

Number of shares of common stock outstanding at June 2, 1997:  45,897,016


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of
this report.  Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on July 30, 1997 are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this report.  

 
                               
 

 
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

(a)  General Development of Business

     The Company's objective is to become the world leader in health care supply
and comprehensive pharmaceutical management across the entire supply chain, from
manufacturer to patient.  (As used herein, the term "Company" includes McKesson
Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.)  Since late 1995, in pursuit of
this goal, the Company completed a number of acquisitions and undertook several
initiatives to further focus  the Company on its core health care business:

   . In December 1995, the Company acquired McKesson BioServices Corporation, a
     business that provides product marketing and support services for the
     pharmaceutical industry, for approximately $20 million.

   . In April 1996, the Company acquired Automated Healthcare, Inc. ("AHI"), a
     business that specializes in automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems
     for health care institutions, for approximately $65 million.

   . In November 1996, the Company acquired the pharmaceutical distribution
     business of FoxMeyer Corporation ("FoxMeyer") out of bankruptcy for
     approximately $598 million.

   . In December 1996, the Company disposed of its 55% equity interest in Armor
     All Products Corporation ("Armor All"), a non-health care business.

   . In February 1997, the Company acquired General Medical Inc., a multi-market
     distributor of medical-surgical supplies, for approximately $775 million.

   . In March 1997, the Company disposed of Millbrook Distribution Services Inc.
     ("Millbrook") a non-health care business.

   . In March 1997, the Company sold its Aqua-Vend vended water business, a unit
     of the Water Products segment.


     Developments which could be considered significant to individual segments
of the business are described under (c)(1) "Narrative Description of Business"
on pages 2 through 5 of this report.


(b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

     Financial information for the three years ended March 31, 1997 appears in
Financial Note 16, "Segments of Business", on page 46 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Stockholders, which note is incorporated herein by reference.


 
(c)  Narrative Description of Business

     (1) Description of Segments of Business

     The Company conducts its operations through two operating business segments
which generated annual sales in fiscal 1997 of $12.9 billion, approximately 98%
of which were generated by the Health Care Services segment and approximately 2%
of which were generated by McKesson's Water Products (as hereinafter defined)
business.


Health Care Services

PRODUCTS & MARKETS

     Through its Health Care Services segment, the Company is the largest
distributor of ethical and proprietary drugs and health and beauty care products
in North America.  The Company is the market leader in its core U.S. drug
distribution businesses.  U.S. Health Care Services operations also include
Healthcare Delivery Systems, Inc. ("HDS") and McKesson BioServices Corporation,
through which the Company provides marketing and other support services to drug
manufacturers, AHI, a business that specializes in automated pharmaceutical
dispensing systems for hospitals and Zee Medical, Inc., a distributor of first-
aid products and supplies to industrial and commercial customers.  International
operations include Medis Health and Pharmaceutical Services Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary and the largest pharmaceutical distributor in Canada, and the
Company's 22.7% equity interest in Nadro, S.A. de C.V., the largest
pharmaceutical distributor in Mexico.

     The Company's domestic distribution operations include the pharmaceutical
health care products and medical-surgical supplies distribution businesses.  The
Company supplies drugs and health and beauty care products to independent and
chain drug stores, hospitals, alternate-site facilities, food stores and mass
merchandisers in all 50 states.  Using the names "Economost" and "Econolink" and
a number of related service marks, the Company has promoted electronic order
entry systems and a wide range of computerized merchandising and asset
management services for drug retailers and hospitals.  The Company also supplies
computer-based practice management systems to drug retailers.  The Company
believes that its financial strength, purchasing leverage, nationwide network of
distribution centers, and advanced logistics and information technologies
provide competitive advantages to its drug distribution operations.  For
example, the Company uses Acumax(R), a computerized bar-code scanning system, to
track items in its warehouses.  Acumax enables the Company to achieve order
filling and inventory accuracy levels of more than 99%, ensuring that the right
product arrives at the right time and place for both the Company's customers and
their patients.

     Health Care Services serves three primary customer segments:  retail
independent pharmacies, retail chains and institutional providers (including
hospitals, health care facilities and pharmacy service operators) which
represents approximately 37%, 31% and 32% respectively, of U.S. Health Care
Services revenues.  In addition, McKesson's Pharmaceutical and Retail Services
unit focuses on drug manufacturers as a customer segment by providing them
marketing and other support services.

     Independent Pharmacies.  In addition to distribution services, the Company
  provides value added services to independent retail pharmacies through
  management information systems, including inventory management, electronic
  billing, current pricing and other financial management offerings.  In
  February 1996, the Company launched the OmniLink/SM/ centralized pharmacy
  technology platform and the associated Valu-Rite/CareMax/SM/ network of
  independent pharmacies.  The combined offering is designed to link independent
  pharmacies, creating a "virtual chain" for contracting with pharmaceutical
  suppliers and managed care organizations.  As of March 31, 1997, OmniLink had
  been installed in over 1,800 pharmacies.


 
     OmniLink is designed to offer pharmacies streamlined transaction processing
  through connectivity with managed care organizations, while promoting
  compliance with managed care formularies and appropriate reimbursement from
  managed care plans.  The service also improves cash flow for pharmacies and
  enhances pharmacy revenues through programs such as 24-hour advanced funding
  of third-party reimbursements, prescription refill reminders, patient direct
  marketing and distribution of coupons and samples from over-the-counter
  products.

     The Company currently has two pharmacy programs for independent pharmacies-
  Valu-Rite(R), a voluntary cooperative program, and Health Mart(R), a
  franchise program.  Through Valu-Rite, the Company provides its independent
  U.S. retail drug store customers with a common marketing identity, group
  advertising, purchasing programs, promotional merchandise and access to a
  pharmacy provider network.  At March 31, 1997, approximately 5,200 stores were
  participating in the Valu-Rite program.  Through Health Mart, acquired as part
  of the FoxMeyer transaction, the Company provides its community pharmacists
  with a franchise program.  Currently, Health Mart has approximately 650
  franchisees.  Together, Valu-Rite and Health Mart pharmacies comprise
  approximately 25% of the nation's independent retail pharmacies.

     Retail chains.  Retail drug chains do business with the Company mainly
  through primary sourcing and secondary sourcing.  In primary sourcing, a chain
  depends on the Company to supply its logistics, warehousing and contract
  administration functions, much as the Company performs primary distribution
  for all other retail customers.  In secondary sourcing, the Company "backs up"
  the chains' own warehouses with deliveries on an as-needed basis.

     Institutional Business.  The Company, through its McKesson Health Systems
  unit, provides drug distribution services, and related logistics and
  management information systems support, to the institutional market, which
  includes hospitals, alternate-sites and integrated health networks.  The
  acquisition of FoxMeyer strengthened the Company's position in the
  institutional marketplace.  Also, the General Medical acquisition further
  enhanced the Company's competitiveness, particularly in the fast-growing
  alternate-site segment.  General Medical is the nation's leading supplier of
  medical-surgical supplies to the full range of alternative-site health care
  facilities, including physicians and  clinics, long-term care and home-care
  sites, and is the third largest distributor of medical-surgical supplies to
  hospitals.

     Manufacturers.  The Company's Pharmaceutical and Retail Services unit
  develops innovative marketing and distribution services to help build and
  sustain sales for manufacturers' pharmaceutical products.  Through its HDS
  unit, this group operates integrated systems for specialized delivery of
  biotech and other high-cost pharmaceutical therapies.  These systems manage
  manufacturer cost and information requirements through financial assistance
  programs for patients, reimbursement support and patient advocacy programs,
  product hot-lines, pharmacy-based sampling and physician and patient
  information programs.  These services are also provided to manufacturers on a
  stand-alone basis outside of integrated service systems.  Through McKesson
  BioServices Corporation, this group also provides support services to
  commercial, non-profit and governmental organizations engaged in drug
  development and biomedical research including biological repository
  management, clinical trials support and regulatory process management
  services.

     The Company also provides a service to drug manufacturers with McKesson
  Select Generics/SM/, an enhancement of the Company's Multi-Source Complete(R)
  generic drug program which was launched in May 1996.  Through the Select
  Generics program, retail customers have access to a broad line of
  approximately 1,350 generic items, and single suppliers are chosen for each
  item, thereby offering to manufacturers the advantage of exclusivity and
  compliance.


 
COMPETITION

     In every area of operations, the distribution businesses face strong
competition both in price and service from national, regional and local full-
line, short-line and specialty wholesalers, service merchandisers, and from
manufacturers engaged in direct distribution.  The particular areas in which
U.S. Health Care Services provides services are in a rapid state of development,
and therefore there are no clearly defined markets in which U.S. Health Care
Services competes.  It nonetheless faces competition from various other service
providers and from pharmaceutical and other health care manufacturers (as well
as other potential customers of U.S. Health Care Services) which may from time
to time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, those services which
are provided by U.S. Health Care Services and other competing service providers.
Price, quality of service, and, in some cases, convenience to the customer are
generally the principal competitive elements in the Health Care Services
segment.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The principal trademarks and service marks of the Health Care Services
segment are:  ECONOMOST(R), ECONOLINK(R), VALU-RITE(R), Valu-Rite/CareMax,
OmniLink, Health Mart(R) and R\\X\\OBOT/TM/.  The Company also owns other
registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks and similar rights. All
of the principal marks are registered in the United States and registration has
been obtained or applied for in Canada with respect to such marks.  The United
States federal registrations of these trademarks and service marks have ten or
twenty year terms, depending on date of registration; the Canadian registrations
have fifteen year terms.  All are subject to unlimited renewals.  The Company
believes this business has taken all necessary steps to preserve the
registration and duration of its trademarks and service marks, although no
assurance can be given that it will be able to successfully enforce or protect
its rights thereunder in the event that they are subject to third-party
infringement.  The Company does not consider any particular patent, license,
franchise or concession to be material to the business of the Health Care
Services segment.


Water Products

PRODUCTS & MARKETS

     McKesson Water Products Company ("Water Products") is a leading provider in
the $3.4 billion bottled water industry in the United States. It is one of the
largest bottled water companies in most of the geographic markets in which it
competes. Water Products is primarily engaged in the processing and sale of
bottled drinking water delivered to more than 530,000 homes and businesses under
its Sparkletts(R), Alhambra(R), and Crystal/TM/ brands in California, Arizona,
Nevada, Oklahoma, Washington, Texas and New Mexico. It also sells packaged water
through retail stores.

COMPETITION

     Although this business faces competition from several larger competitors,
the competition is generally widely dispersed between many different entities.
Principal among the large local competitors of the Water Products segment are:
Arrowhead (California and Arizona) and Ozarka/Oasis (Texas) (both owned by
Nestle); Hinckley & Schmitt (Arizona, Las Vegas, and Southern California) and
Sierra Springs (Northern California and Texas) (both owned by Suntory
International Corporation); Crystal Geyser (nationally distributed); Evian
(nationally distributed) (owned by Groupe Donone, S.A.) and private label
brands. This operation faces significant competition in both price and service
in all aspects of its business.


 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The principal trademarks and service marks of the Water Products segment
are: SPARKLETTS/R/, ALHAMBRA/R/ and CRYSTAL/TM/. Water Products also owns other
registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks used by the Water
Products segment. All of the principal trademarks and service marks are
registered in the United States, in addition to certain other jurisdictions. The
United States federal registrations of these trademarks have terms of ten or
twenty years, depending on date of registration, and are subject to unlimited
renewals. The Company believes this business has taken all necessary steps to
preserve the registration and duration of its trademarks and service marks,
although no assurance can be given that it will be able to successfully enforce
or protect its rights thereunder in the event that they are subject to third-
party infringement. The Company does not consider any particular patent,
license, franchise or concession to be material to the business of the Water
Products segment.


     (2) Other Information About the Business

     Customers -- No material part of the business is dependent upon a single or
a very few customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse
effect on the Company or any of its business segments.

     Environmental Legislation -- The Company sold its chemical distribution
operations in fiscal 1987.  In connection with the disposition of those
operations, the Company retained responsibility for certain environmental
obligations and has entered into agreements with the Environmental Protection
Agency and certain states pursuant to which it is or may be required to conduct
environmental assessments and cleanups at several closed sites.  These matters
are described further in Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" on pages 6 to 8 of this
report.  Other than any capital expenditures which may be required in connection
with those matters, the Company does not anticipate making substantial capital
expenditures for environmental control facilities or to comply with
environmental laws and regulations in the future.  The amount of capital
expenditures expended by the Company for environmental compliance was not
material in fiscal 1997 and is not expected to be material in the next fiscal
year.

     Employees -- At March 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 13,300
persons.

     Backlog Orders -- Both of the Company's segments seek to promptly fill or
otherwise satisfy the orders of each such segment's customers.  Accordingly,
neither of the Company's segments has a significant backlog of customer orders.


(d)  Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
     Sales

     Information as to foreign operations is included in Financial Note 16,
"Segments of Business" on page 46 of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders,
which note is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     Because of the nature of the Company's principal businesses, plant,
warehousing, office and other facilities are operated in widely dispersed
locations.  The warehouses are typically owned or leased on a long-term basis.
The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory condition
and adequate to meet its needs for the next several years. Information as to
material lease commitments is included in Financial Note 11, "Lease Obligations"
on page 41 of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, which note is incorporated
herein by reference. Due to the numerous warehousing, office and other


 
facilities utilized by the Company in its business operations, the Company does
not believe that any one of its facilities is materially important to the
Company.


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In addition to commitments and obligations in the ordinary course of
business, the Company is subject to various claims, other pending and potential
legal actions for product liability and other damages, investigations relating
to governmental laws and regulations, and other matters arising out of the
normal conduct of the Company's business.

     The Company currently is a defendant in seven civil actions filed since
late 1993 by retail pharmacies.  The first proceeding, Feitelberg v. Abbott
Laboratories, is pending in the Superior Court for the State of California
(County of San Francisco) and is now referred to as Coordinated Proceeding
Special Title, Pharmaceutical Cases I, II and III.  The second proceeding, HJB,
Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories (now known as MDL 997), is pending in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.  The third
proceeding, K-S Pharmacies, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, is pending in the
Circuit Court of Wisconsin for Dane County.  A fourth action, Adams v. Abbott
Laboratories, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas.  A fifth action, Salk Drug Co. v. Abbott Laboratories, was filed in
the District Court of Minnesota, Fourth Judicial District.  A sixth action was
filed in California Superior Court for San Francisco County, Horton v. Abbott
Laboratories, et. al. has been consolidated with Coordinated Proceeding Special
Title, Pharmaceutical Cases I, II and III. A seventh case, Durrett v. Upjohn
Co., filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama, was served on McKesson in 1996. These actions were brought as purported
class actions on behalf of all other similarly-situated retail pharmacies. A
class has been certified in Feitelberg and in MDL 997. There are numerous other
defendants in these actions including pharmaceutical manufacturers, a
pharmaceutical mail order firm, and several other wholesale distributors. These
cases allege, in essence, that the defendants have unlawfully conspired together
and agreed to fix the prices of brand name pharmaceuticals sold to plaintiffs at
artificially high, discriminatory, and non-competitive levels, all in violation
of various state and federal antitrust laws. Some of the plaintiffs specifically
contend that the wholesaler and manufacturer defendants are engaged in a
conspiracy to fix prices charged to plaintiffs and members of the purported
classes (independent and chain retail drug stores) above the price levels
charged to mail order pharmacies, HMOs and other institutional buyers. The
California cases allege, among other things, violation of California antitrust
law. In MDL 997, plaintiffs allege that defendants' actions constitute price
fixing in violation of the Sherman Act. In the K-S Pharmacies, Inc., Salk Drug
and Durrett complaints, plaintiffs allege violation of Wisconsin, Minnesota and
Alabama antitrust laws, respectively. In each of the complaints, except Adams,
plaintiffs seek certification as a class and remedies in the form of injunctive
relief, unquantified monetary damages (trebled as provided by law), and
attorneys fees and costs. In addition, the California cases seek restitution. In
MDL 997, plaintiffs have appealed the court's ruling granting the motion for
summary judgment filed by the Company and other wholesaler defendants. In K-S
Pharmacies, the court dismissed the Company and other wholesaler defendants with
prejudice and plaintiffs have appealed. In Durrett, the court denied the
wholesaler's motion to dismiss. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses
to the allegations made against it and intends to vigorously defend itself in
all of these cases. In addition, the Company has entered into a judgment sharing
agreement with certain pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants, which provides
generally that the Company (together with the other wholesale distributor
defendants) will be held harmless by such pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants
and will be indemnified against the costs of adverse judgments, if any, against
the wholesaler and manufacturers in these or similar actions, in excess of $1
million in the aggregate per wholesale distributor defendant.

     In December 1996, a purported stockholder class action entitled Vogel vs.
Armstrong, et. al. was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware
against the Company, Armor All Products 

 
Corporation ("Armor All"), then current members of Armor All's Board of
Directors and The Clorox Company ("Clorox"). The complaint alleges that (i) the
Company and Armor All's directors breached their fiduciary duties to Armor All's
public shareholders by entering into an agreement to sell Armor All for an
insufficient price, (ii) the Company and the Armor All directors, contrary to
their fiduciary duties, consummated the sale in order to favor the Company over
the public shareholders of Armor All, and (iii) Clorox, in purchasing the shares
of Armor All, aided and abetted those breaches of fiduciary duty. Plaintiff
seeks rescission, compensatory damages, interest, attorneys fees and costs. The
Company has filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, believes it has meritorious
defenses to the allegations made against it, and intends to vigorously defend
the litigation.

     In January 1997, the Company and twelve pharmaceutical manufacturers (the
"Manufacturer Defendants") were named as defendants in the matter of FoxMeyer
Health Corporation vs. McKesson Corporation, et. al. filed in the District Court
in Dallas County, Texas.  In its complaint, Plaintiff (the parent corporation of
FoxMeyer Drug Company and FoxMeyer Corporation collectively, "FoxMeyer
Corporation") alleges that, among other things, the Company (i) defrauded
Plaintiff, (ii) competed unfairly and tortiously interfered with FoxMeyer
Corporation's business operations, and (iii) conspired with the Manufacturer
Defendants, all in order to destroy FoxMeyer Corporation's business, restrain
trade and monopolize the marketplace, and allow the Company to purchase that
business at a distressed price.  Plaintiff seeks relief against all defendants
in the form of compensatory damages of at least $400 million, punitive damages,
attorneys fees and costs.  The Company has answered the complaint, denying the
allegations, and removed the case to federal bankruptcy court in Dallas. A
motion by defendants to transfer the case to bankruptcy court in Delaware and a
motion by Plaintiff to remand the case to Texas State Court are pending. The
Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the allegations made against it
and intends to vigorously defend the litigation.

     In July 1995, a purported class action was filed in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York against General Medical Corp., Inc. and several other
defendants by Richard A. Bernstein, Chairman and President of Rabco Health
Services, Inc. and Chairman of General Medical at the time of its leveraged
buyout in 1993.  Plaintiff alleges a conspiracy to orchestrate the buyout of
plaintiff's interest in Rabco at an unfairly low price.  Plaintiff alleges
common law fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and inducing breach of fiduciary
duty.  Plaintiff seeks rescissionary damages of $50 million, compensatory
damages of $25 million, and punitive damages of $25 million.  The complaint was
dismissed in September 1996 and an appeal by plaintiff is pending.  The Company
believes that it has meritorious defenses to the allegations made against it and
intends to vigorously defend the action.

     Primarily as a result of the operation of its former chemical businesses,
which were divested in fiscal 1987, the Company is involved in various matters
pursuant to environmental laws and regulations:

     The Company has received claims and demands from governmental agencies
relating to investigative and remedial actions purportedly required to address
environmental conditions alleged to exist at five sites where the Company (or
entities acquired by the Company) formerly conducted operations; and the
Company, by administrative order or otherwise, has agreed to take certain
actions at those sites, including soil and groundwater remediation.

     The current estimate (determined by the Company's environmental staff, in
consultation with outside environmental specialists and counsel) of the upper
limit of the Company's range of reasonably possible remediation costs for these
five sites is approximately $22 million, net of $5 million which third parties
have agreed to pay in settlement or which the Company expects, based either on
agreements or nonrefundable contributions which are ongoing, to be contributed
by third parties.  The $22 million is expected to be paid out between April 1997
and March 2028 and is included in the Company's recorded environmental reserves
at March 31, 1997.



 

     In addition, the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (the
"Superfund" law), for environmental assessment and cleanup costs as the result
of the Company's alleged disposal of hazardous substances at 22 Superfund sites.
With respect to each of these Superfund sites, numerous other PRPs have
similarly been designated and, while the current state of the law potentially
imposes joint and several liability upon PRPs, as a practical matter costs of
these sites are typically shared with other PRPs. The Company's estimated
liability at those 22 Superfund sites is approximately $2 million, net of $4
million which insurance companies, and $3 million which another PRP, are
expected or have agreed to contribute to the Company's allocated share. The
aggregate settlements and costs paid by the Company in Superfund matters to date
has not been significant. The $2 million is included in the Company's recorded
environmental reserves at March 31, 1997.

     The potential costs to the Company related to environmental matters is
uncertain due to such factors as:  the unknown magnitude of possible pollution
and cleanup costs; the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and
regulations and their interpretations; the timing, varying costs and
effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies; the determination of the
Company's liability in proportion to other PRPs; and the extent, if any, to
which such costs are recoverable from insurance or other parties.

     Management believes, based on current knowledge and the advice of the
Company's counsel, that the outcome of the litigation and governmental
proceedings discussed in the preceding paragraphs will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the three months ended March 31,
1997.


 
                      Executive Officers of the Registrant


     The following table sets forth information concerning the executive
officers of the Registrant as of June 2, 1997.  The number of years of service
with the Company includes service with predecessor and acquired companies,
including McKesson.

     There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or
directors of the Registrant.  The executive officers are chosen annually to
serve until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next
annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are elected and have
qualified, or until death, resignation or removal, whichever is sooner.



 
 


 
                                    PART II


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a)  Market Information

     The principal market on which the Company's common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange and on the Pacific Stock Exchange.  High and low prices
for the common stock by quarter appear in Financial Note 18, "Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited)" on page 49 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders which note is incorporated herein by reference.


(b)  Holders

     The number of record holders of the Company's common stock as of March 31,
1997 was 14,385.


(c)  Dividends

     Dividend information is included in Financial Note 18, "Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited)" on page 49 of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders,
which note is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Selected financial data is shown on pages 20 and 21 of the 1997 Annual
Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Management's discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition
and results of operations appears in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 28 of
the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data appear on pages 29 to 49 of the
1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


 
                                    PART III


ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to Directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference from the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement (the "Proxy Statement").
Certain information relating to Executive Officers of the Company appears at
pages 9 and 10 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.  The information with respect to
this item required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by
reference from the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement.



ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the Company's Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the Company's Proxy Statement.



ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information with respect to certain transactions with management is
incorporated by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement.


 
                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and the
Independent Auditors' Report are included in the 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders and are incorporated by reference in Item 8.  Page number
references are to the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.


     Financial statements and schedules not included or incorporated by
reference herein have been omitted because of the absence of conditions under
which they are required or because the required information, where material, is
shown in the financial statements, financial notes or supplementary financial
information.

     Exhibits submitted with this Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those
incorporated by reference to other filings are listed on the Exhibit Index on
pages 18 to 23.


 
(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          The following reports on Form 8-K or amendments to previously filed
     reports on Form 8-K were filed during the three months ended March 31,
     1997:


     1.   Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 1
          Date of Report:  November 22, 1996      Date Filed:  January 21, 1997

          Item 5.  Other Events
          ---------------------
          The Registrant reported that it and twelve pharmaceutical
          manufacturers were named as defendants in the matter of FoxMeyer
          Health Corporation vs. McKesson Corporation et. al.

          Item 7.  Financial Statements, Pro Forma Information and Exhibits
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          The Registrant filed the financial statements and pro forma financial
          information related to its acquisition of the healthcare distribution
          business of FoxMeyer Corporation.


     2.   Form 8-K
          Date of Report:  December 31, 1996      Date Filed:  January 13, 1997

          Item 2.  Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
          ---------------------------------------------
          The Registrant reported that it had completed the disposition of its
          equity interest in Armor All Products Corporation.


     3.   Form 8-K
          Date of Report:  January 28, 1997       Date Filed:  February 5, 1997

          Item 5.  Other Events
          ---------------------
          The Registrant announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to
          acquire privately held General Medical Inc.


     4.   Form 8-K
          Date of Report:  February 11, 1997      Date Filed:  February 11, 1997

          Item 5.  Other Events
          ---------------------
          The Registrant announced that Mark A. Pulido had been named Chief
          Executive Officer effective April 1, 1997.


     5.   Form 8-K
          Date of Report:  February 21, 1997      Date Filed:  February 24, 1997

          Item 5.  Other Events
          ---------------------
          The Registrant announced that it had (i) executed a definitive
          agreement to divest Millbrook Distribution Services Inc., its service
          merchandising unit, to R.A.B. Holdings, Inc., a private investment
          group, and (ii) completed its acquisition of General Medical Inc.


 
                                   SIGNATURES



     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                           McKESSON CORPORATION

Date:  May 30, 1997                        By:   /s/Richard H. Hawkins
                                               --------------------------------
                                               Richard H. Hawkins, Vice 
                                                President and Chief Financial 
                                                Officer



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on May 30, 1997 by the following persons on behalf
of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated:



/s/Alan Seelenfreund                       /s/Mark A. Pulido
- ----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------
Alan Seelenfreund, Chairman of the Board   Mark A. Pulido, President and
                                            Chief Executive Officer and 
                                            Director
                                        
                                        
/s/Richard H. Hawkins                      /s/Heidi E. Yodowitz
- ----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------
Richard H. Hawkins, Vice President and     Heidi E. Yodowitz, Controller
 Chief Financial Officer                 
                                        
                                        
/s/Mary G.F. Bitterman                     /s/Tully M. Friedman
- ----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------
Mary G.F. Bitterman, Director              Tully M. Friedman, Director
                                        
                                        
/s/John M. Pietruski                    
- ----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------
John M. Pietruski, Director                Carl E. Reichardt, Director
                                        
                                        
/s/Jane E. Shaw                            /s/Robert H. Waterman, Jr.
- ----------------------------------------   -----------------------------------
Jane E. Shaw, Director                     Robert H. Waterman, Jr., Director


 
                        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON
                        SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL SCHEDULE



The Stockholders and Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of McKesson Corporation
and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, and for the years then
ended and have issued our report thereon dated May 16, 1997.  Such consolidated
financial statements and report are included in the 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included
the consolidated supplementary financial schedule of McKesson Corporation,
listed in Item 14(a).  This consolidated supplementary financial schedule is the
responsibility of the Corporation's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such consolidated
supplementary financial schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
San Francisco, California
May 16, 1997


 
                                                                     Schedule II
                      McKESSON CORPORATION - CONSOLIDATED
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
                                 (in thousands)
 
- ----------------------------------------
NOTES:

(3)  Includes charges of $15.1 million for receivable reserves related to
     management's reevaluation of the U.S. Health Care business' estimated
     exposures for bad debts, disputed amounts, customer allowances and rebates.
     See Financial Note 4.

(4)  Includes charges of $32.2 million for receivable reserves related to
     facility closures and a reassessment of credit risks in the Company's
     Health Care Services business.  See Financial Note 4.


 
 


 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
- ----------------------------------------
Footnotes to Exhibit Index:
* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
(1)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on July 27,
     1994, File No. 1-13252.
(2)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
     August 26, 1994, File No. 1-13252.
(3)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
     October 11, 1994, File No. 1-13252.
(4)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 3 to the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
     October 27, 1994, File No. 1-13252.
(5)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 4 to the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission on
     November 7, 1994, File No. 1-13252.
(6)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's definitive
     Proxy Statement dated June 9, 1995 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
     held on  July 26, 1995.
(7)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1995, File No. 
     1-13252.
(8)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1996, as amended by
     Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A, filed on February 13, 1997, File No. 1-
     13252.
(9)  Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996, File No. 1-13252.
(10) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on November 22, 1996, File No.
     1-13252.
(11) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 10, 1996, File No.
     1-13252.
(12) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 5, 1997, File No.
     1-13252.
(13) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the Commission on May 2,
     1997, Registration No. 333-26443.
(14) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the Commission on
     June  9, 1997, Registration No. 333-26103.
(15) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the
     Company's Registration Statement of Form S-3 filed with the Commission on
     June 18, 1997, Registration No. 333-26443.
(16) Incorporated by reference to designated exhibit to the Company's definitive
     Proxy Statement dated June 18, 1997, for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
     to be held on July 30, 1997.


