
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-7849
                            ------------------------
 
                           W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
                            ------------------------
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (203) 629-3000
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
                     Common stock, par value $.20 per share
    Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $.10 per share
                            ------------------------
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding twelve months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X       No   _____
 
     Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant based on the closing price of such stock as of March 4, 1997:
$921,684,118.
 
     Number of shares of common stock, $.20 par value, outstanding as of March
4, 1997: 19,641,099
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     The registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 1996
(incorporated by reference under Part III).
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.   _____
================================================================================

                            W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                December 31, 1996


         PART I                                                             Page

ITEM     1.       BUSINESS                                                    3

ITEM     2.       PROPERTIES                                                 20

ITEM     3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS                                          20

ITEM     4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS        20


         PART II

ITEM     5.       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
                  AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                            21

ITEM     6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR THE FIVE YEARS
                  ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996                                    22

ITEM     7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS              23

ITEM     8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                30


         PART III

ITEM    10.       DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT         55

ITEM    11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION                                     57

ITEM    12.       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
                  OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT                                      57

ITEM    13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS             58


         PART IV

ITEM     14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K                                    59


PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General Description of the Company's Business

         W. R. Berkley Corporation (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, is
an insurance holding company, which through its subsidiaries, presently operates
in all segments of the property casualty insurance business: regional property
casualty insurance; reinsurance (conducted through Signet Star Holdings, Inc.);
specialty lines of insurance (including excess and surplus lines and commercial
transportation); alternative markets (including the management of alternative
insurance market mechanisms); and international (conducted through Berkley
International, LLC). The Company was founded on the concept that a group of
autonomous regional and specialty insurance entities could compete effectively
in selected markets within a very large industry. Decentralized control allows
each subsidiary to respond to local or specialty market conditions while
capitalizing on the effectiveness of centralized investment and reinsurance
management, and actuarial, financial and legal staff support.

         The Company's regional insurance operations are conducted primarily in
the midwest, southern and northeast sections of the United States. Reinsurance,
specialty insurance and alternative markets operations are conducted nationwide.
Presently, international operations are conducted primarily in Argentina.


         Net premiums written, as reported on a generally accepted accounting
principles ("GAAP") basis, by the Company's five major insurance industry
segments for the five years ended December 31, 1996 were as follows:



(1)    For the year ended December 31, 1995 the results of the Regional
       operations have been restated to reflect the international operations as
       a separate segment.

(2)    Premiums written by the Company's Reinsurance operations prior to July 1,
       1993, including the alternative markets division, are included in
       Specialty insurance operations (see: "Other information about the
       Company's business").


         The following sections briefly describe the Company's insurance
segments and subsidiaries. The statutory information contained herein is derived
from that reported to state regulatory authorities in accordance with statutory
accounting practices ("SAP"). The amount of statutory net premiums shown for the
subsidiaries exclude the effects of intercompany reinsurance. In connection with
the acquisition of Midwest Employers Casualty Company ("Midwest") in November
1995, the Company established the alternative markets segment to reflect the
markets served by each of its business segments. The alternative markets segment
consists of Midwest, Signet Star Holding's alternative markets division and the
Company's insurance services units which manage alternative market mechanisms.
The descriptions contain each significant insurance subsidiary's rating by A.M.
Best and Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best"). A.M. Best's Ratings are based upon factors
of concern to policyholders, insurance agents and brokers and are not directed
toward the protection of investors. A.M. Best states: "Best's Ratings reflect
[its] opinion as to the relative financial strength and performance of each
insurer in comparison with others, based on [its] analysis of the information
provided to [it]. These Ratings are not a warranty of an insurer's current or
future ability to meet its contractual obligations."

                          REGIONAL INSURANCE OPERATIONS

         The Company's regional property casualty subsidiaries write standard
commercial and personal lines insurance for such risks as automobiles, homes and
businesses. American West Insurance Company ("American West"), Continental
Western Insurance Company ("Continental Western"), Great River Insurance Company
("Great River"), Tri-State Insurance Company of Minnesota ("Tri-State"), Union
Insurance Company ("Union") and Union Standard Insurance Company ("Union
Standard") obtain their business primarily in the smaller communities of the
midwest and southwest through over 2,000 independent insurance agencies, which
represent them on a non-exclusive basis and are compensated on a commission
basis. Firemen's Insurance Company of Washington D.C. ("Firemen's") and Berkley
Insurance Company of the Carolinas ("BICC") primarily sell their policies
through agents in the District of Columbia, and the States of Maryland, North
Carolina, Pennsylvania and Virginia. Certain of Firemen's commercial lines of
business are marketed principally through brokers in the New York metropolitan
area. Acadia Insurance Company ("Acadia") currently operates in the States of
Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, and sells its personal and commercial
coverages through independent agencies.

         In 1996, the Company formed Berkley Regional Insurance Company
("BRIC"). The Company contributed to BRIC all of the capital stock of the
regional insurance companies. In 1997 BRIC will reinsure varying portions of the
business written by the regional operations. In addition, BRIC is expanding its
licenses so that it will be eligible to write personal and commercial lines on a
direct basis nationally. BRIC's statutory surplus as of December 31, 1996 was
$281,704,000.

Acadia Insurance Company

         Acadia was organized by the Company and incorporated in April 1992. It
writes multiple line property and casualty coverages in the States of Maine, New
Hampshire and Vermont. Acadia is rated A+ by A.M. Best. Acadia's statutory
surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and for the
year then ended were $42,782,000 and $105,239,000, respectively.

American West Insurance Company

         American West is a successor to a company that was organized in 1903 as
a mutual insurance company and converted to a stock company in June 1986. Its
business consists primarily of personal lines in the States of Minnesota,
Montana, Wisconsin and South Dakota. American West is rated A- by A.M. Best.
American West's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of
December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended were $7,958,000 and $15,474,000,
respectively. In 1997 American West will be managed by Tri-State, its immediate
parent.


Berkley Insurance Company of the Carolinas

         In December 1995, the Company organized BICC, a North Carolina
domiciled company. It writes personal and commercial lines in North Carolina and
is expanding to surrounding states. BICC is rated A+ by A.M. Best. BICC's
statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and
for the year then ended were $6,339,000 and $7,619,000, respectively.

Continental Western Insurance Company

         Continental Western was organized in 1907. It writes a diverse
commercial lines book of business as well as personal lines principally in the
States of Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Illinois, Missouri, Wisconsin and Montana.
Continental Western is rated A+ by A.M. Best. Continental Western's statutory
surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and for the
year then ended were $82,286,000 and $143,551,000, respectively.

Firemen's Insurance Company of Washington, D.C.

         Firemen's was incorporated by an Act of Congress in 1836. Firemen's
writes commercial business consisting primarily of multiple dwelling coverages
principally in the State of New York through operations conducted by Clermont
Specialty Managers, Ltd., an underwriting manager which is owned by the Company.
In addition, it insures homeowners, other personal lines and commercial risks in
the District of Columbia, and in the States of Maryland, North Carolina and
Virginia. In September 1993, Firemen's established Chesapeake Insurance Division
in order to expand its operations in the State of Virginia. In 1997 Firemen's
spun off this division into the operations of Chesapeake Bay Property and
Casualty Insurance Company, which is owned by Acadia. In March 1995, Firemen's
established the Presque Isle Insurance Division in order to expand its
operations into the State of Pennsylvania. Firemen's is rated A+ by A.M. Best.
Firemen's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December
31, 1996 and for the year then ended were $31,516,000 and $65,590,000,
respectively.

Great River Insurance Company

         In December 1993, the Company organized Great River, a Mississippi
domiciled company. It writes personal and commercial lines in Mississippi and
Tennessee and is expanding to surrounding states. Great River is rated A+ by
A.M. Best. Great River's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as
of December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended were $12,675,000 and
$34,331,000, respectively.

Tri-State Insurance Company of Minnesota

         Tri-State was originally organized in 1902 as a mutual insurance
company. It writes various commercial lines (specializing in grain elevator
coverages), as well as personal lines primarily, in the States of Minnesota,
Iowa, North and South Dakota, Nebraska, Wisconsin and Illinois. Tri-State is
rated A+ by A.M. Best. Tri-State's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums
written as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended were $36,343,000 and
$53,569,000, respectively.

Union Insurance Company

         Union was organized originally in 1886 as a mutual insurance company.
Union's business consists of personal lines as well as commercial lines
insurance concentrated in the States of Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado and South
Dakota. Union is rated A by A.M. Best. Union's statutory surplus and statutory
net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended were
$21,917,000 and $49,755,000, respectively.


Union Standard Insurance Company

         Union Standard is a successor to a company that was organized in 1970.
Union Standard writes personal lines and commercial lines of insurance for small
businesses in the States of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Colorado. Union
Standard is rated A by A.M. Best. Union Standard's statutory surplus and
statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then
ended were $32,832,000 and $58,442,000, respectively.


Regional operations:  Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by line, by the Company's regional insurance operations (1):



         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by state, by the Company's regional insurance operations (1):



(1)    For the year ended December 31, 1995 the results of the Regional
       operations have been restated to reflect the international operations as
       a separate segment.


                             REINSURANCE OPERATIONS

The Company's reinsurance operations consists of five operating units which
specialize in underwriting property, casualty and surety reinsurance on both a
treaty and a facultative basis. Signet Star Holdings, Inc. (Signet Star),
through its subsidiary Signet Star Reinsurance Company, includes the results of
the reinsurance operations and the results of its alternative markets divisions.
For financial segment reporting purposes the results of the alternative market
division are included in the alternative markets segment. Signet Star
Reinsurance Company is rated A by A.M. Best. Signet Star Reinsurance Company's
statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and
for the year then ended were $257,641,000 and $264,355,000, respectively.

The Property Casualty Treaty Division

         The largest business unit in terms of personnel and premiums written,
this division of Signet Star is committed exclusively to the broker market
segment of the treaty reinsurance industry. It functions as a traditional
reinsurer in specialty and standard reinsurance lines.

Facultative ReSources, Inc.

         Facultative ReSources, Inc. ("Fac Re") specializes in individual
certificate and program facultative business. Fac Re's highly experienced
underwriters seek to offset the underwriting and pricing cycles in the
underlying insurance business by developing risk management solutions and
through superior risk selection. Fac Re develops its business through brokers
and on a direct basis where the client does not choose to use an intermediary.

The Fidelity and Surety Division

         The Fidelity and Surety Division ("F&S") operates as a lead company in
a niche market of the United States property casualty industry where its highly
specialized knowledge and expertise are essential to meet the needs of insureds.
Business is developed principally through brokers and directly to clients not
served by intermediaries.

The Latin American and Caribbean Division

         Signet Star's newest business unit is devoted exclusively to Latin
American and Caribbean business ("LACD"). This division handles most traditional
lines of property and casualty treaty business and is developing a book of niche
business.

Reinsurance Operations: Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums
written, by line, by the Company's reinsurance operations:




The following table sets forth the percentage of gross premiums written, by
property versus casualty business, by the Company's reinsurance operations:



                         SPECIALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

         The Company's specialty lines of insurance consist primarily of excess
and surplus lines ("E & S"), commercial transportation, professional liability,
directors and officers liability and surety. Specialty lines also included the
results of the Company's reinsurance operations through June 30, 1993 (see:
"Other information about the Company's business").

Admiral Insurance Company

         The majority of the Company's E & S insurance business is conducted by
Admiral Insurance Company ("Admiral"). Admiral specializes in general liability
coverages, including products liability and professional liability. Admiral
insures risks requiring specialized treatment not available in the conventional
market, with coverage designed to meet the specific needs of the insured.
Business is received from wholesale brokers via retail agents, whose clients are
the insureds. E & S carriers operate on a non-admitted basis in the states where
they write business. They are generally free from rate regulation and policy
form requirements. Admiral's business is obtained on a nationwide basis from
approximately 190 non-exclusive brokers, who do not have the authority to commit
the Company, and who are compensated on a commission basis. Admiral also writes
directors and officers liability insurance through operations conducted by
Monitor Liability Managers, Inc., an underwriting manager established by the
Company. Admiral is rated A++ by A.M. Best. Admiral's statutory surplus and
statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then
ended were $183,034,000 and $100,306,513, respectively.

Carolina Casualty Insurance Company

         The Company's commercial transportation operations are primarily
conducted by Carolina Casualty Insurance Company ("Carolina"). Carolina writes
liability, physical damage and cargo insurance for the transportation industry,
concentrating on long-haul trucking companies. Municipal bus lines, charter
buses and school buses also make up a substantial part of Carolina's book of
business. Carolina's business is obtained nationwide from approximately 120
agents and brokers who are compensated on a commission basis. In June 1995,
Carolina began writing surety bonds through operations conducted by Monitor
Surety Managers, Inc., an underwriting manager established by the Company. In
December 1996, Carolina began writing directors and officers liability insurance
through operations conducted by Monitor Liability Managers, Inc. Carolina is
rated A by A.M. Best. Carolina's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums
written as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended were $61,957,000 and
$60,508,000, respectively.

Nautilus Insurance Company

         Nautilus Insurance Company ("Nautilus") was established in 1985 to
insure E & S risks which involve a lower degree of expected severity than those
covered by Admiral. Nautilus obtains its business nationwide from approximately
135 non-exclusive general agents, some of which also provide business to
Admiral. A substantial portion of Nautilus' business is written on a binding
authority basis, subject to certain contractual limitations. Nautilus is rated A
by A.M. Best. Nautilus's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as
of December 31, 1996 and for the year then ended were $56,538,000 at
$36,081,000, respectively. Great Divide Insurance Company ("Great Divide"), a
subsidiary of Nautilus, writes transportation risks, as well as other specialty
lines, on an admitted basis.


Specialty Operations:  Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums
written, by line, by the Company's specialty insurance operations:



                               ALTERNATIVE MARKETS

         The Company's alternative markets operations specialize in insuring,
reinsuring and administering self-insurance programs and other alternative risk
transfer mechanisms for public entities, private employers and associations.
Typical clients are those who are driven by various factors to seek less costly
and more efficient techniques to manage their exposure to claims. The Company's
alternative markets segment consists of: excess workers' compensation insurance
written by Midwest Employers Casualty Company ("Midwest"); reinsurance of
alternative risk business; and insurance services operations which manage
alternative market mechanisms.

Midwest Employers Casualty Company

         In November 1995, the Company acquired Midwest Employers Casualty
Company ("Midwest"). Midwest markets and underwrites excess workers'
compensation ("EWC") insurance. EWC insurance is marketed to employers and
employer groups which have elected and have qualified or been approved by state
regulatory authorities to self-insure their workers' compensation programs. EWC
insurance provides coverage to a self-insured employer once the employers'
losses exceed the employer's retention amount. Midwest offers a complete line of
EWC products, including specific and aggregate EWC insurance policies and surety
bonds. Midwest is rated A- by A.M. Best. Midwest's statutory surplus and
statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1996 and for the year then
ended were $106,682,000 and $55,232,000, respectively.

Signet Star - Alternative Markets Division

         Signet Star Reinsurance Company's Alternative Markets Division
specializes in providing custom designed reinsurance products and services to
alternative markets ("ARM") clients, such as captive insurance companies, risk
retention groups, public entity insurance trusts and governmental pools. ARM
clients are generally self insured vehicles which provide insurance buyers with
a mechanism for assuming part of their own risk, managing their exposures,
modifying their loss costs and, ultimately, participating in the underwriting
results. Signet Star has been an active reinsurer of ARM clients for over ten
years and is considered to be one of the leading broker market reinsurers of ARM
business. The Alternative Markets Division has access to substantial additional
resources within the Company, which will enable it to concentrate and coordinate
the Company's focus on this growing sector of the reinsurance market.


Insurance Services Operations

         The Company's insurance service operations offer a variety of products,
which includes underwriting and claims administration and alternative insurance
market mechanisms. In addition, subsidiaries of the Company provide agency and
brokerage services to both affiliated and unaffiliated entities.

Berkley Administrators

         Berkley Administrators, a division of Tri-State headquartered in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, provides risk management and administration services to
its clients, including underwriting, loss control, policy issuance and claims
handling. A significant portion of Berkley Administrators' present business is
the administration of the Minnesota Workers' Compensation Assigned Risk Plan.

Berkley Risk Services, Inc.

         The Company acquired Berkley Risk Services, Inc. ("Berkley Risk") and
its affiliated companies in 1988. Berkley Risk, based in Minneapolis, Minnesota,
is a property casualty risk management firm which specializes in the development
and administration of group and single-employer alternative insurance funding
techniques. Subsidiaries of Berkley Risk also manage entities which provide
liability insurance and claim adjusting services to public entities and
not-for-profit organizations.

Key Risk Management Services, Inc.

         The Company acquired Key Risk Management Services, Inc. ("Key Risk") in
1994. Key Risk, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, is a property casualty risk
management firm which specializes in management and administration of group
self-insured funds. A significant portion of Key Risk's present business is the
administration of the North Carolina Associated Industries Workers' Compensation
Fund.

Berkley Risk Managers

         Berkley Risk Managers is a successor to a company acquired in 1990.
Berkley Risk Managers, based in Somerset, New Jersey, is primarily involved in
the development and administration of self-funded property casualty and health
insurance programs primarily for municipalities and other governmental entities.

All American Agency Facilities, Inc.

         All American Agency Facilities, Inc., based in Denver, Colorado,
provides wholesale brokerage and general agency services on a nationwide basis
for unaffiliated insurance carriers as well as certain of the Company's
insurance subsidiaries.

Berkley Care Network, Inc.

         The Company established Berkley Care Network, Inc. ("Berkley Care") in
1995. Berkley Care, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, is a managed health
care company offering utilization review and case management services for
workers' compensation carriers in North Carolina. It expects to expand the
geographic scope of its operations over the next several years.

Alternative Markets Operations: Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of revenues, by major
source of business, of the alternative markets operations:




                            INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

         In 1995, the Company and Northwestern Mutual Life International, Inc.
("NML"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company, entered into a joint venture with respect to Berkley International LLC,
a limited liability company. The Company agreed to contribute up to $65 million
to Berkley International in exchange for a 65% membership interest and NML
agreed to contribute up to $35 million to Berkley International in exchange for
a 35% membership interest.

         Berkley International LLC owns 99.9916% of Berkley International
Argentina S.A. ("Berkley S.A."), an Argentine holding company. Berkley S.A. owns
the following property casualty insurance companies: 72.86% of La Union Gremial
Compania de Seguros, S.A.; 80% of Independencia Compania Argentina de Seguros,
S.A.; and 99.9667% of Berkley International Asegurdora de Riesgos de Trabajo
S.A. In addition, Berkley S.A. owns 99.9167% of Risk Management Services S.A.,
which is third-party administrator.


                           RESULTS BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT

         Summary financial information about the Company's operating segments is
presented on a GAAP basis in the following table (all amounts include realized
capital gains and losses):



(1)   For the year ended December 31, 1995 the results of the Regional
      operations have been restated to reflect the international operations as a
      separate segment.

(2)   Prior to July 1, 1993 the Reinsurance operations, including the
      alternative markets division, are included in Specialty insurance
      operations (see: "Other information about the Company's business").


         The combined ratio represents a measure of underwriting profitability,
excluding investment income. A number in excess of 100 indicates an underwriting
loss; a number below 100 indicates an underwriting profit. Summary information
for the Company's insurance companies and the insurance industry is presented in
the following table (1):



         (1)      Based on U.S. statutory accounting practices.

         (2)      Results of the Company's Reinsurance operations prior to July
                  1, 1993, including the alternative markets division, are
                  included in Specialty insurance operations. (see "Other
                  information about the Company's business").

         (3)      The Alternative Markets segments combined ratio reflects the
                  underwriting results of Midwest, since November 1995, the date
                  it was acquired, and the Signet Star Alternative Markets
                  division from July 1, 1993. Midwest discounts its reserves for
                  losses and loss expenses, and, accordingly, the annual change
                  in the discount is reflected in the loss ratio.

         (4)      Based on the Company's consolidated net premiums written to
                  statutory surplus.

         (5)      Estimated by A.M. Best

         (6)      Source: A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, for stock companies.

         (7)      Source: A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, for total industry.


Investments

         Investment results before income tax effects were as follows:




(1)      The change in unrealized investment gains (losses) represents the
         difference between fair value and cost of investments at the beginning
         and end of the calendar year, including investments carried at cost.

         The percentages of the fixed maturity portfolio categorized by
contractual maturity, based on fair value, on the dates indicated, are set forth
below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain
issuers have the right to call or prepay obligations.



Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves

         In the property casualty industry, it is not unusual for significant
periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, to elapse between the
occurrence of an insured loss, the report of the loss to the insurer and the
insurer's payment of that loss. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses,
insurers establish reserves, which is a balance sheet account representing
estimates of future amounts needed to pay claims and related expenses with
respect to insured events which have occurred. The Company's loss reserves
reflect current estimates of the ultimate cost of closing outstanding claims;
other than its Excess Workers Compensation business, as discussed below, the
Company does not discount its reserves to estimated present value for financial
reporting purposes.

         In general, when a claim is reported, claims personnel establish a
"case reserve" for the estimated amount of the ultimate payment. The estimate
represents an informed judgment based on general reserving practices and
reflects the experience and knowledge of the claims personnel regarding the
nature and value of the specific type of claim. Reserves are also established on
an aggregate basis which provide for losses incurred but not yet reported to the
insurer, potential inadequacy of case reserves, the estimated expenses of
settling claims, including legal and other fees and general expenses of
administering the claims adjustment process ("LAE"), and a provision for
potentially uncollectible reinsurance. Each insurance subsidiary's net retention
for each line of insurance is taken into consideration in the computation of
ultimate losses.

         In examining reserve adequacy, historical data is reviewed and
consideration is given to such factors as legal developments, changes in social
attitudes and economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. The
actuarial process relies on the basic assumption that


past experience, judgmentally adjusted for the effects of current developments
and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events.
Reserve amounts are necessarily based on management's informed estimates and
judgments using data currently available. As additional experience and other
data become available and are reviewed, these estimates and judgments are
revised, resulting in increases or decreases to reserves for insured events of
prior years. The reserving process implicitly recognizes the impact of inflation
and other factors affecting loss costs by taking into account changes in
historic claim patterns and perceived trends. There is no precise method to
evaluate the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, because
the ultimate cost of closing claims is influenced by numerous factors.

         While the methods for establishing the reserves are well tested over
time, some of the major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns
are subject to fluctuation. In particular, high levels of jury verdicts against
insurers, as well as judicial decisions which "re-formulate" policies to expand
their coverage to previously unforeseen theories of liability, including those
regarding pollution and other environmental exposures, have produced
unanticipated claims and increased the difficulty of estimating the loss and
loss adjustment expense reserves provided by the Company.

         Due to the nature of EWC business and the long period of time over
which losses are paid in this line of business, the Company discounts its
liabilities for EWC losses and loss expenses. Discounting liabilities for losses
and loss expenses gives recognition to the time value of money set aside to pay
claims in the future and is intended to appropriately match losses and loss
expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting the liabilities.
The expected losses and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting was
derived from Midwest's loss payout experience and is supplemented with data
compiled by insurance companies writing workers' compensation on an
excess-of-loss basis. The expected payout pattern has a very long duration
because it reflects the nature of losses which generally penetrate self-insured
retention limits contained in EWC policies. The Company has limited the expected
payout duration to 30 years in order to introduce an additional level of
conservatism into the discounting process. These liabilities have been
discounted using "risk-free" discount rates determined by reference to the U.S.
Treasury yield curve weighted for EWC premium volume to reflect the seasonality
of the anticipated duration of losses associated with such coverages. The
average discount rate for accident years 1996 and 1995 and prior was
approximately 5.90% and 5.80%, respectively. The aggregate net discount, after
reflecting the effects of ceded reinsurance, is $172,415,000 and $152,235,000 at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

         To date, known pollution and environmental claims at the Company's
insurance company subsidiaries have not had a material impact on the Company's
operations. Environmental claims have not materially impacted the Company
because these subsidiaries generally did not insure the larger industrial
companies which are subject to significant environmental exposures.

         The Company's net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
relating to pollution and environmental claims were $35.2 million and $30.8
million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The Company's gross
reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to pollution and
environmental claims were $71.9 million and $59.4 million at December 31, 1996
and 1995, respectively. Net incurred losses and loss expenses for reported
pollution and environmental claims were approximately $6.9 million, $8.0 million
and $5.6 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Net paid losses and loss
expenses has averaged approximately $3 million for each of the last three years.
The estimation of these liabilities is subject to significantly greater than
normal variation and uncertainty because it is difficult to make a reasonable
actuarial estimate of these liabilities due to the absence of a generally
accepted actuarial methodology for these exposures and the potential affect of
significant unresolved legal matters, including coverage issues as well as the
cost of litigating the legal issues. Additionally, the determination of ultimate
damages and the final allocation of such damages to financially responsible
parties is highly uncertain.


         The table below provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending
reserve balances, on a gross of reinsurance basis (dollars in thousands):



         A reconciliation, as of December 31, 1996, between the reserves
reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements which have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP and those reported on a SAP basis is as follows
(in thousands):



(1)   Claims occurring during the current year is net of discount of $28,885,000
      and $708,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(2)   The 1995 decline in ceded reserves is due to the sale of North Star
      Reinsurance Company (see: "Other information about the Company's
      business").

(3)   For statutory purposes, Midwest uses a discount rate of 3.0% as permitted
      by the Department of Insurance of the State of Ohio. For GAAP purposes,
      Midwest uses a discount rate based on the U. S. Treasury yield curve
      weighted for the expected payout period, as described above.

         The table on page 16 presents the development of net reserves for 1986
through 1996. The top line of the table shows the estimated reserves for unpaid
losses and loss expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
indicated years. This represents the estimated amount of losses and loss
expenses for claims arising in all prior years that are unpaid at the balance
sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but not yet reported to the
Company. The upper portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the
previously recorded reserves based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The estimate changes as more information becomes known about
the frequency and severity of claims for individual years.

         The "cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years. For example, the 1986 reserves
have developed a $47 million deficiency over ten years. That amount has been
reflected in income over the ten years. The impact on the results of operations
of the past three years of changes in reserve estimates is shown in the
reconciliation tables above.

         It should be noted that the table presents a "run off" of balance sheet
reserves, rather than accident or policy year loss development. Therefore, each
amount in the table includes the effects of changes in reserves for all prior
years. For example, assume a claim that occurred in 1986 is reserved for $2,000
as of December 31, 1986. Assuming this claim was settled for $2,300 in 1996, the
$300 deficiency would appear as a deficiency in each year from 1986 through
1995.





Regulation

         The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to varying degrees of
regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business, under
statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to
state insurance commissioners. This regulation relates to such matters as the
standards of solvency which must be met and maintained; the licensing of
insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments;
deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy
forms and premium rates; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance
companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial
condition of insurers or for other purposes; establishment and maintenance of
reserves for unearned premiums and losses; and requirements regarding numerous
other matters. In general, the Company's regional property casualty subsidiaries
as well as Carolina, Great Divide and Midwest must file all rates for personal
and commercial insurance with the insurance department of each state in which
they operate. The Company's E&S and reinsurance subsidiaries generally operate
free of rate and form regulation.

         In addition to regulatory supervision of its insurance subsidiaries,
the Company is subject to state statutes governing insurance holding company
systems. Typically, such statutes require the Company periodically to file
information with the state insurance commissioner, including information
concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general
business operations. Under the terms of applicable state statutes, any person or
entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10%) of
the Company's outstanding voting securities would be required to obtain
regulatory approval of the purchase. Under Florida law, which is applicable to
the Company due to its ownership of Carolina, a Florida domiciled insurer, the
acquisition of more than 5% of the Company's capital stock must receive
regulatory approval. Further, state insurance statutes typically place
limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by
insurance companies in order to protect their solvency. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Liquidity and Capital Resources."

         During the past several years, various regulatory and legislative
bodies adopted or proposed new laws or regulations to deal with the cyclical
nature of the insurance industry, catastrophic events and their effects on
shortage of capacity and pricing. These regulations, which have not had a
material impact on the Company's operations, include (i) the creation of "market
assistance plans" under which insurers are induced to provide certain coverages,
(ii) restrictions on the ability of insurers to cancel certain policies in
mid-term, (iii) advance notice requirements or limitations imposed for certain
policy non-renewals and (iv) limitations upon or decreases in rates permitted to
be charged. The passage of Proposition 103 in the State of California did not
have a material adverse impact on the Company's operations because the Company's
subsidiaries operate in that State primarily on a non-admitted basis. The
non-admitted market in California, however, has been subjected to increased
levels of regulation. Admiral and Nautilus, both of which derive significant
premiums from California, may be adversely impacted by increased regulation
which causes business to remain in the admitted market.

         Various state and federal organizations, including Congressional
committees and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"),
have been conducting investigations into various aspects of the insurance
business. The NAIC has adopted risk based capital ("RBC") requirements that
require insurance companies to calculate and report information under a
risk-based formula which measures statutory capital and surplus needs based on a
regulatory definition of risk in a company's mix of products and its balance
sheet. The implementation of RBC did not effect the operations of the Company's
insurance subsidiaries since all of its subsidiaries have an RBC amount above
the authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC. Federal legislation is
being considered which would either abolish or limit the current exemption of
the insurance industry from portions of the antitrust laws, impose direct
federal oversight or federal solvency standards. No assurance can be given that
future legislative or regulatory


changes resulting from such activity will not adversely affect the Company's
insurance subsidiaries.

         The Company's insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessment by
state guaranty funds when an insurer in that jurisdiction has been judicially
declared insolvent and insufficient funds are available from the liquidated
company to pay policyholders and claimants. The protection afforded under a
state's guaranty fund to policyholders of the insolvent insurer varies from
state to state. Generally, all licensed property casualty insurers are
considered to be members of the fund, and assessments are based upon their pro
rata share of direct written premiums. The NAIC Model Post-Assessment Guaranty
Fund Act, which many states have adopted, limits assessments to an insurer to 2%
of its subject premium and permits recoupment of assessments through rate
setting. Likewise, several states (or underwriting organizations of which the
Company's insurance subsidiaries are required to be members) have limited
assessment authority with regard to deficits in certain lines of business. To
date, assessments have not had a material adverse impact on operations.

         The Company receives funds from its insurance subsidiaries in the form
of dividends and fees for certain management services. Annual dividends in
excess of maximum amounts prescribed by state statutes ("extraordinary
dividends") may not be paid without the approval of the insurance commissioner
of the state in which an insurance subsidiary is domiciled. The NAIC has
proposed and certain states have adopted legislation that lowers the threshold
amount for determining what constitutes an extraordinary dividend. Such
legislative changes could make it more difficult for insurance subsidiaries to
pay dividends to their parents. Similarly, the NAIC has proposed a new model
investment law that may affect the statutory carrying values of certain
investments; however, the final outcome of that proposal is not certain, nor is
it possible to predict what impact the proposal will have on the Company or
whether the proposal will be adopted in the foreseeable future.

Tax Law Changes

         There were no tax law changes in 1996 that significantly affected the
Company.

Competition

         The property casualty insurance and reinsurance business is
competitive, with over 2,000 insurance companies transacting business in the
United States. The Company competes directly with a large number of these
companies. The Company's strategy in this highly fragmented industry is to seek
specialized areas or geographic regions where its insurance subsidiaries can
gain a competitive advantage by responding quickly to changing market
conditions. Each of the Company's subsidiaries establishes its own pricing
practices. Such practices are based upon a Company-wide philosophy to price
products with the general intent of making an underwriting profit. Competition
in the industry generally changes with profitability.

         The regional property casualty subsidiaries compete with mutual and
other regional stock companies as well as national carriers. Direct writers of
property casualty insurance compete with the regional subsidiaries by writing
insurance through their salaried employees, generally at a lower cost than
through independent agents such as those used by the Company.

         Signet Star's competition comes from domestic and foreign reinsurers,
some of which have greater financial resources than Signet Star who place their
business either on a direct basis or through the broker market.

         The E & S area is a highly specialized segment of the insurance
industry. Admiral and Nautilus compete with other E & S carriers, some of which
are larger and have greater resources than Admiral and Nautilus. Under certain
market conditions, standard carriers may compete for the types of business
written by Admiral and Nautilus. In addition, there are regional and specialty
carriers competing with Admiral and Nautilus when they underwrite business in
their regions or specialties.


         Carolina and Great Divide's competition comes mainly from other
specialty transportation insurers and large national multi-line companies.

         Midwest's competition comes from insurance and reinsurance companies,
some of which have greater financial resource than Midwest. Most of theses
carriers write specific EWC coverage, do not offer aggregate EWC coverage and
tend to focus on risks larger than those targeted by Midwest. In addition,
Midwest competes with other specialty EWC insurers.

         The insurance services operations face competition from several large
nationally known service organizations as well as local competitors.

Employees

         As of February 28, 1997, the Company employed 3,473 persons. Of this
number, the Company's subsidiaries employed 3,432 persons, of whom 2,086 were
executive and administrative personnel and 1,346 were clerical personnel. The
Company employed the remaining 41 persons in its parent company and investment
operations, of whom 34 were executive and administrative personnel and 7 were
clerical personnel.

Other information about the Company's business:

         The Company maintains an ongoing interest in acquiring additional
companies and developing new insurance entities, products and packages as
opportunities arise. In addition, the insurance subsidiaries develop new
coverages or lines of business to meet the needs of insureds.

         Seasonal weather variations affect the severity and frequency of losses
sustained by the insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Although the effect on
the Company's business of such natural catastrophes as tornadoes, hurricanes,
hailstorms and earthquakes is mitigated by reinsurance, they nevertheless can
have a significant impact on the results of any one reporting period.

         The Company has no customer which accounts for 10 percent or more of
its consolidated revenues.

         Compliance by the Company and its subsidiaries with federal, state and
local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of
materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to protection of the
environment, has not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position of the Company.

         The Company currently does not engage in material operations in foreign
countries nor is a material portion of its revenues derived from customers in
foreign countries. In 1995, the Company entered into a joint venture to acquire
insurance and insurance related operations outside the United States (see
"International Operations"). However, the Company's insurance subsidiaries
regularly purchase a portion of their catastrophe reinsurance coverage from
foreign reinsurers, including syndicate members of Lloyd's of London. While
Queen's Island is domiciled in Bermuda, to date its business has exclusively
been reinsurance of its domestic affiliates.

         In January 1997 Berkley International LLC entered into a joint venture
in the Philippines. The initial contribution to this new joint venture was
approximately $10 million ($6.5 million of which was contributed by the
Company).

         On July 1, 1993, the Company exchanged all the stock of Signet
Reinsurance Company ("Signet") for 60% of the stock of Signet Star, a newly
formed holding company. Signet Star simultaneously acquired all the stock of
North Star Reinsurance Company ("North Star Reinsurance") from General Re in
exchange for 40% of the stock of Signet Star and senior and convertible notes.
In connection with the formation of Signet Star, North Star Reinsurance entered
into a Retrocessional Agreement (the "Retrocessional Agreement") with


General Reinsurance Corporation ("GRC"), pursuant to which North Star
Reinsurance reinsured its respective liabilities and assigned its respective
rights and obligations arising from any insurance or reinsurance contracts
written prior to January 1, 1993 with and to GRC.

         On December 31, 1995, the Company purchased General Re's interest in
Signet Star by issuing to General Re 458,667 shares of Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company having an aggregate liquidation
preference of $68,800,000, which was redeemed in 1996. In addition, the Company
guaranteed a senior subordinated promissory note of Signet Star which was issued
to General Re in exchange for the convertible note which General Re held. As
part of this transaction, Signet Star sold to General Re Signet Star Reinsurance
Company and renamed Signet Reinsurance Company, Signet Star Reinsurance Company.

         In connection with the 1995 acquisition of the remaining 40% interest
in Signet Star, North Star Reinsurance was sold to General Re and all business
written subsequent to July 1, 1993 was novated to Signet Star. As a result,
business written by North Star Reinsurance prior to January 1, 1993, which had
been retroceded to General Re, is no longer reflected in the Company's financial
statements. The only effect on the Company's financial statements resulting from
this aspect of the transaction is that the Company's reserves for losses and
loss expenses is reduced by $735,144,000 and "due from reinsurers" is reduced by
the same amount. This aspect of the transaction does not effect the Company's
cash flow, equity or statements of operations.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

         The Company and its subsidiaries own or lease office buildings or
office space suitable to conduct their operations. Such owned property is as
follows:



(1) Presently leased to a third party

         In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries lease office facilities
in various other cities under leases with varying terms and expiration dates.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Claims under insurance policies written by the Company's insurance
subsidiaries are investigated and settled either by claims adjusters employed by
them, by their independent agents or by independent adjusters. Each subsidiary
employs a staff of claims adjusters at its home office and at some regional
offices. Some independent agents may have the authority to settle small claims.
Independent claims adjusting firms are used to assist in handling various claims
in areas where insurance volume does not warrant the maintenance of a staff
adjuster. If a claim or loss cannot be settled and results in litigation, the
subsidiary generally retains outside counsel.

         At present, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is engaged
in any litigation known to the Company which is expected to have a material
adverse effect upon the Company's business. As is common with property casualty
insurance companies, the Company's subsidiaries are regularly engaged in the
defense of claims arising out of the conduct of the insurance business.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1996 to a vote
of holders of the Company's Common Stock.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

         The Common Stock of the Company is traded in the over-the-counter
market and is quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotation ("NASDAQ") National Market System under the symbol "BKLY". The
following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the indicated
periods, all as reported by NASDAQ.




         The closing price on March 4, 1997, as reported on the NASDAQ National
Market System, was $54.25 per share. The approximate number of record holders of
the Common Stock on March 4, 1997 was 881.

         On December 20, 1996, the W.R. Berkley Capital Trust (the "Trust")
issued for cash $210,000,000 of 8.197% Company obligated mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities of a subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated
debt securities (the "Capital Securities") representing preferred beneficial
interests in the Trust. The Company is the owner of the beneficial interests
represented by the common securities of the Trust. The Trust exists for the sole
purpose of issuing the Capital Securities and investing the proceeds in the
8.197% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the Company.
The Capital Securities were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities Act"), and were sold to "qualified institutional
buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in reliance upon the
exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by
Rule 144A, or to institutional "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule 501
(a) (1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act.) See Note 5 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements."


ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996



(1)   Investments and stockholders' equity reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 115,
      "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," as of
      December 31, 1993. Included in the calculation of common stockholders'
      equity per share are unrealized investments gains (losses), net of federal
      income taxes, of $31,075,000, $48,450,000, ($33,973,000) and $36,450,000
      as of December 31, 1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


                                Industry Overview


         The demand for insurance can be characterized as fairly stable and is
influenced primarily by general economic conditions, while the supply of
insurance is directly related to available capacity, i.e., the level of
policyholders' surplus employed in the industry and the willingness of insurance
management to risk that capital. In general, it is believed that the amount of
available capacity changes as the perceived rate of return on capital employed
fluctuates based on the adequacy of premium rates and available investment
returns. The adequacy of premium rates is affected mainly by the severity and
frequency of claims which are influenced by many factors including natural
disasters, regulatory measures and court decisions that define and expand the
extent of coverage and the effects of economic inflation on the amount of
compensation due for injuries or losses. In addition, investment rates of return
may impact policy rates. These factors can have a significant impact on the
ultimate adequacy of premium rates because a property casualty insurance policy
is priced before its costs are known, as premiums usually are determined long
before claims are reported. Over the past several years a trend of increasing
price competition, combined with an increase in the number and size of
catastrophic losses, has produced a reduction in underwriting profitability for
the Company and the industry.


             Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 1996
                as Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 1995

         Net income attributable to common stockholders ("Net Income") for 1996
was $76 million, or $3.84 per share, compared with 1995 earnings of $50 million,
or $2.86 per share. The 1996 results include after-tax realized investment gains
of $5 million, or $.24 per share, compared with $6 million, or $.36 per share
for 1995.

         Net premiums written in 1996 grew 22% to $1,053 million from $860
million written during 1995 due to increases recorded by all segments of our
operations. Premiums written by the regional segment grew by 13% to $531 million
from $471 million written during 1995. Regional net premiums written grew by 16%
excluding business assumed from national workers' compensation pools. The
majority of this growth was due to new operations which the Company has
established during the past five years. Premiums written by the reinsurance
segment grew by 11% to $218 million from $196 million written during 1995. The
growth in reinsurance premiums written was substantially due to the start-up of
a Latin American and Caribbean division and increases in business written by the
Fidelity and Surety division. Premiums written by the specialty segment grew by
26% to $202 million from $161 million. The growth in specialty premiums written
is due to an increase in business written by Admiral and Monitor as well as
increases in the amount of business retained by Admiral, Monitor and Nautilus.
These increases more than offset a decline in premiums written by Carolina
Casualty. Premiums written by the alternative markets segment grew by $50
million to $76 million. This increase is due to the inclusion of results of
Midwest Employers Casualty Company ("MECC"), which was acquired in November
1995. Premiums written by the international segment grew by $19 million to $25
million. The increase in premiums written is due to the inclusion of our primary
insurance operations in Argentina, which were acquired in 1995, for a full year
and the start up of an Argentine operation in 1996. As a result of this start up
operation, the Company expects the international operation to sustain a loss in
1997. Such loss is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the
Company's results of operations.

         Pre-tax net investment income increased to $164 million from $137
million earned in 1995. Approximately three-fourths of this increase was due to
the inclusion of the


results of MECC. The remainder of this increase was due to the increase in
average investable assets generated by cash flow from operations which more than
offset the effects of lower yields available in the financial markets (see
"Liquidity and Capital Resources").

         Management fees and commissions consist primarily of fees earned by the
alternative markets segment. Management fees and commissions were basically
unchanged for 1996 as market conditions, particularly in workers' compensation
insurance, inhibited growth.

         Realized gains from the sale of fixed income securities result
primarily from the Company's strategy of rebalancing the asset and liability
duration relationship; realized gains on equity securities arise primarily as a
result of a variety of factors which influence the Company's valuation criteria.
The majority of the 1996 realized gains resulted form the sale of equity
securities, whereas in 1995 the majority of realized gains were from the sale of
fixed income securities.

         The consolidated combined ratio (on a statutory basis) of the Company's
insurance operations decreased to 102.2% in 1996 from 102.5% in 1995 due to an
improvement in the consolidated loss ratio which was partially offset by an
increase in the consolidated expense ratio. The consolidated loss ratio (losses
and loss expenses incurred expressed as a percentage of premiums earned)
decreased to 68.7% from 70.7% primarily due to improved losses at certain
specialty companies resulting from a change in mix of business partially offset
by greater catastrophe losses impacting the regional companies.

         Other operating costs and expenses, which consists of the expenses of
the Company's insurance and alternative markets segments as well as the
Company's corporate and investment expenses, increased by 20% to $409 million
from $340 million recorded in 1995. The increase in other operating costs is
primarily due to substantial growth in premium volume in all segments of the
Company's business, which in turn results in an increase in underwriting
expenses. The consolidated expense ratio of the Company's insurance operations
(underwriting expenses expressed as a percentage of premiums written) increased
to 33.1% for the 1996 period from 31.3% for the comparable 1995 period. The
underwriting expense ratio increased primarily due to increased commissions
expense in certain specialty and reinsurance segments.

         Interest expense increased due to the January 1996 issuance of $100
million of long-term debt. In addition, in December 1996, the Company issued
$210 million of Company obligated manditorily redeemable preferred securities of
a subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debt securities (see
"Liquidity and Capital Resources").

         The Federal income tax provision resulted in an effective tax rate of
22% in 1996 and 21% in 1995. The tax rate is lower than the statutory tax rate
of 35% because a substantial portion of investment income is tax-exempt. The
increase in the effective tax rate in 1996 is due primarily to a decrease in the
percentage of pre-tax income that is tax-exempt.

         In December 1995, the Company purchased all the remaining outstanding
common stock of Signet Star Holdings. As a result of this acquisition, the
minority interest in 1996 was solely related to international operations.

         Preferred dividends increased as a result of the December 1995 issuance
of Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (see "Liquidity and Capital
Resources").

             Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 1995
                as Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 1994

         Net Income for 1995 was $50 million, or $2.86 per share, compared with
1994 earnings of $25 million, or $1.44 per share. The 1995 results include
after-tax realized


investment gains of $6 million or $.36 per share, compared with after-tax
realized investment losses of $86,000 or $.01 per share recorded in 1994.

         Net premiums written in 1995 grew by 20% to $860 million from $718
million written during 1994 due to increases recorded by all five segments of
our operations. Premiums written by the regional segment grew by 22% in 1995 to
$471 million compared to $387 million written during 1994. Approximately 60% of
the growth was from three operations which the Company established in 1992 and
1993. The balance of this increase primarily results from the expansion by the
regional operations into new markets. Premiums written by the reinsurance
segment grew by 11% to $196 million from $177 million written during 1994. The
growth in reinsurance premiums written was mainly due to growth in facultative
and fidelity and surety premiums written. Premiums written by the specialty
segment grew by 19% in 1995 to $161 million from $135 million in 1994. The
growth in the specialty premiums written is due mainly to decreases in the
amounts of business ceded to unaffiliated reinsurers. Premiums written by the
alternative markets segment grew by 30% in 1995, to $26 million from $20 million
in 1994. The growth in this segment's premiums written is due to the inclusion
of Midwest, which was acquired in November 1995, and modest premium growth
recorded by Signet Star's alternative markets division.

         Net investment income increased, on a pre-tax basis, to $137 million
from $110 million earned in 1994. The higher level of investment earnings is due
primarily to growth in investable assets generated by an increase in cash flow
from operations and increased portfolio yields. The pre-tax yield of the
portfolio increased as a result of a change in the mix of fixed maturity
investments, an increase in the duration of the portfolio and an increase in
trading account profits (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources").

         Management fees and commissions consists primarily of fees and
commissions earned by the alternative markets operating units. These fees and
commissions grew by 6% to $68 million in 1995 from $65 million earned in 1994.
This increase was due mainly to the inclusion of a full year's results for Key
Risk Services, Inc. which was acquired in May 1994, as well as fees earned by
Berkley Care Network which the Company established in June 1995. These increases
were partially offset by a restructuring of one alternative markets operating
unit.

         The consolidated combined ratio (on a statutory basis) of the Company's
insurance operations decreased to 102.5% in 1995 from 105.0% (101.9% before the
Northridge Earthquake) in 1994 due to an improvement in the consolidated loss
ratio which was partially offset by a slight increase in the expense ratio. The
consolidated loss ratio (losses and loss expenses incurred expressed as a
percentage of premiums earned) decreased to 70.7% from 73.7%, primarily due to
the effect of the Northridge Earthquake, which significantly impacted 1994
results. This improvement was partially offset by an increase in the frequency
and severity of losses incurred by our commercial transportation unit.

         Other operating costs and expenses, which consists of the expenses of
the Company's insurance and alternative markets segments as well as the
Company's corporate and investment expenses, increased by 19% to $340 million
from $286 million recorded in 1994. This increase was due primarily to the
substantial growth in premium volume which in turn results in an increase in
variable underwriting expenses. The consolidated expense ratio (underwriting
expenses expressed as a percentage of premiums written) of the Company's
insurance operations increased to 31.3% from 30.8% in 1994. The expense ratio
increased due to the effects of start-up operations which generally incur a
higher expense ratio in the early stages of their development.

         Minority interest for 1995 was an expense of $4 million as compared to
income of $3 million reported in 1994. The change in minority interest was due
to earnings generated by Signet Star in 1995 versus a loss in 1994.


                         Liquidity and Capital Resources

General

         The Company's subsidiaries are highly liquid, receiving substantial
cash from premiums, investment income, management fees and proceeds from sales
and maturities of portfolio investments. The principal outflows of cash are
payments of claims, taxes, interest and operating expenses. The net cash
provided from operating activities (before trading account transactions) was
$243.8 million in 1996 and $206.6 million in 1995. The increase in cash flow in
1996 was due primarily to additional cash flow generated by the acquisition of
MECC and the increase in premium volume previously discussed.

         As a holding company, the Company derives cash from its subsidiaries in
the form of dividends, tax payments and management fees. The Company is
obligated to service its debt, pay consolidated Federal income taxes and pay its
expenses. Tax payments and management fees from the insurance subsidiaries are
made under agreements which generally are subject to approval by state insurance
departments. Maximum amounts of dividends that can be taken without regulatory
approval are prescribed by statute; to date, cash dividends have not required
regulatory approval (See Note 14 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements").

Financing Activity

         In January 1994, the Company issued 6 million depository shares each
representing a one-sixth interest in a share of 7.375% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock and received net proceeds of approximately $145
million. A portion of the proceeds of this offering were contributed to the
start-up insurance subsidiaries to support their growth.

         In October 1995, the Company issued 3,450,000 shares of common stock,
par value $.20 per share and received net proceeds of approximately $145 million
which was used to finance the acquisition of MECC.

         On December 31, 1995, in connection with the acquisition of the
remaining 40% of Signet Star, the Company issued to General Reinsurance
Corporation (General Re), 458,667 shares of Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock having an aggregate liquidation preference of $68,800,000. The
Series B Preferred Stock had a dividend rate increasing up to 6% during the
first twelve months. In addition, the Company guaranteed a senior subordinated
promissory note of Signet Star in the principal amount of $35,793,085, which
matures July 1, 2003 and bears interest at the rate of 6.5%. This note was
issued to General Re in exchange for the convertible note previously held by
General Re. In November 1993, Signet Star borrowed the maximum amount available
under its revolving credit facility and used the proceeds to redeem senior notes
issued in connection with the July 1, 1993 acquisition. The revolving credit
facility was repaid on January 19, 1996 as discussed below.

         On January 19, 1996, the Company issued $100 million of 6.25%, ten-year
notes which are not redeemable until maturity and utilized a portion of the
proceeds to retire $28.4 million of Signet Star's bank debt. In addition, a
portion of the proceeds were used to retire $28 million of Series B Preferred
Stock. The balance of the proceeds from all of the above-mentioned offerings of
securities is available for acquisitions, working capital and other general
corporate purposes.

         On December 19, 1996, the Company issued $210 million of 8.197%,
Company obligated manditorily redeemable preferred securities of a trust holding
solely junior subordinated debt securities ("Capital Trust Securities") and
utilized $38.4 million of the proceeds to retire the remaining outstanding
shares of the Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, during December 1996 and
January 1997 the Company utilized $39.2 million of


the proceeds to retire 252,273 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and placed
$115.8 million in a trust which will be used to service the remaining
outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. The Company expects the proceeds of the
trust will be utilized to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock on January 25,
1999. The balance of the proceeds is available for acquisitions, working capital
and other general corporate purposes.

         In March 1995, the Company purchased 117,000 shares of Common Stock for
approximately $4.1 million. During 1996, the Company purchased 575,000 shares of
its Common Stock for approximately $24.2 million. On April 19, 1996, the Board
of Directors authorized the Company to purchase an additional 1,000,000 shares
of Common Stock. As a result of the above, approximately 759,000 shares remain
under the current authorization.


         The Company has on file two "shelf" Registration Statements with the
Securities and Exchange Commission with a combined remaining balance of $190
million in additional equity and/or debt securities. The securities may be
offered from time-to-time as determined by funding requirements and market
conditions.

Investments

         In its investment strategy, the Company establishes a level of cash and
highly liquid short-term and intermediate-term securities which, combined with
expected cash flow, is believed adequate to meet foreseeable payment
obligations. As part of this strategy, the Company attempts to maintain an
appropriate relationship between the average duration of the investment
portfolio and the approximate duration of its liabilities, i.e., policy claims
and debt obligations.

         The Company's investment policy with respect to fixed maturity
securities is generally to purchase instruments with the expectation of holding
them to their maturity. However, active management of the portfolio is
considered necessary to maintain an approximate matching of assets and
liabilities as well as to adjust the portfolio as changes in financial market
conditions alter the assumptions underlying the purchase of certain securities.

         The investment portfolio, valued on a cost basis, grew in 1996 by
$374.9 million to approximately $2,882.9 million primarily due to the combined
effects of net cash flow from operations and the financing activities discussed
above.

         During 1996, the Company invested approximately $90.8 million of its
available cash inflow in equity securities, $56.6 million in state and municipal
bonds and $52.7 million in mortgage-backed securities. At December 31, 1996, the
portion of the portfolio invested in tax-exempt securities was 29% (31% in
1995); U.S. Government securities and cash equivalents comprised 27% (24% in
1995); mortgage-backed securities were 19% (19% in 1995); corporate fixed
maturity securities were 14% (15% in 1995), and equity securities represented
the balance.

Federal Income Taxes

         The Company files a consolidated Federal income tax return. At December
1996, the Company had a deferred tax liability of $48.6 million, which results
primarily from unrealized investment gains and intangible assets, and a deferred
tax asset of $44.6 million, which results primarily from the discounting of loss
reserves for Federal income tax purposes.

         The realization of the deferred tax asset is dependent upon the
Company's ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods. Based
on historical results and the prospects for current operations, management
anticipates that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be
sufficient for the realization of this asset. In establishing the amount of the
deferred tax asset, management has included a valuation allowance for the future
uncertainty associated with the extended time period required for the complete
reversal of the effects of loss reserve discounting.


Reinsurance

         The Company follows the customary industry practice of reinsuring a
portion of its exposures, paying to reinsurers a part of the premiums received
on the policies it writes. Reinsurance is purchased principally to reduce net
liability on individual risks and to protect against catastrophic losses.
Although reinsurance does not legally discharge an insurer from its primary
liability for the full amount of the policies, it does make the assuming
reinsurer liable to the insurer to the extent of the reinsurance ceded. The
Company monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers and attempts to place
its coverages only with substantial, financially sound carriers. The Company has
established reserves for uncollectible reinsurance.

                               Regional Operations

         In 1996, Continental Western and Clermont Specialty Managers, Ltd.,
formerly Habitational Division of Firemen's generally retained $475,000 on
individual risks while the Company's other regional subsidiaries generally
retained $400,000 on individual risks. In 1997, all regional subsidiaries will
generally retain $300,000 on individual risks. The regional group also
maintained catastrophe reinsurance protection for approximately 95% of
weather-related losses above $3 million per occurrence ($6 million in 1997) up
to a maximum of $34 million. In addition the Company carried additional
aggregate catastrophe protection of $17.5 million in excess of $8 million for
storms exceeding $500,000. In 1997, the aggregate catastrophe protection is:
$13.5 million in excess of $4 million for storms exceeding $500,000; $5 million
in excess of $6.5 million for storms exceeding $1.0 million; and $4.5 million in
excess of $7 million for storms exceeding $1.5 million.

                             Reinsurance Operations

         Signet Star's catastrophe retrocession program provides coverage for
property losses in three layers as follows: (i) 100% of $7.0 million in excess
of $6.5 million per occurrence; (ii) 95% of $9.0 million in excess of $13.5
million per occurrence; and (iii) 90% of $7.5 million in excess of $22.5 million
per occurrence. In 1996, Signet Star had retrocession coverage for its casualty
facultative business for up to 20% of $5.0 million per certificate. In 1997,
Signet Star has a variable quota share program on its casualty facultative
business with retentions varying from a low of $425,000 up to $2.5 million
depending on the certificate limit. These coverages apply to Signet Star's
individual certificate business only. During 1996, Signet Star had retrocession
coverage for its fidelity and surety business for approximately 86.5% (100% in
1997) of each loss up to $2.5 million in excess of $750,000 per occurrence. In
1997, Signet Star purchased an additional layer of 79.5% of each loss up to $2.5
million in excess of $3.25 million per occurrence for its fidelity and surety
business.

                              Specialty Operations

         Admiral's retention in 1996 was $175,000 per risk for most classes of
business and $5.0 million, per insured, for business written by Monitor
Liability Managers. In addition, in 1996 Admiral's Directors and Officer
coverage also included additional protection on an aggregate basis. Nautilus
generally retained $140,000 per risk in 1996 and Carolina maintained its
retention at $300,000 on liability exposures.

                         Alternative Markets Operations

         Midwest's retention is generally $1 million per occurrence above the
self insured's underlying retention.

                            International Operations

         The international operations generally retained $50,000 to $250,000 per
occurrence.


Capitalization

         For the year ended December 31, 1996, the purchase of common and
preferred stock discussed above under "Financing Activity", and the decline in
unrealized investment gains more than offset the increase in retained earnings.
This resulted in a decrease in stockholders' equity of approximately $50
million. In addition, as a result of the issuance of the Capital Trust
Securities the total amount of capital employed in the business grew to $1,478
million. Accordingly, the percentage of the Company's capital attributable to
long-term debt was 26% at December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995.


ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



Index to Financial Statements                                               Page
- -----------------------------                                               ----

W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries:

         Independent auditors' report                                        31

         Consolidated balance sheets, December 31, 1996 and 1995             32

         Consolidated statements of operations, years ended
           December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994                                 33

         Consolidated statements of stockholders' equity, years
           ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994                           34

         Consolidated statements of cash flows, years ended
           December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994                                 35

         Notes to consolidated financial statements                          36


                          Independent Auditors' Report


Board of Directors and Stockholders
W. R. Berkley Corporation

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of W. R. Berkley Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of W. R. Berkley
Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

We have also previously audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated balance sheets of W. R. Berkley Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
the years ended December 31, 1993 and 1992 (none of which are presented herein);
and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated financial
statements. W. R. Berkley Corporation adopted the provisions of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board's statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" in 1992 and the provisions of
SFAS No. 115 "Accounting For Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities"
on December 31, 1993.

In our opinion, the information set forth in the selected financial data for
each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 1996, appearing on
page 22, is fairly presented, in all material respects, in relation to the
consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.


                                                        KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



New York, New York
February 21, 1997


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                           December 31, 1996 and 1995
                    (Dollars in thousands, except share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
                  Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                  (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                  Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                  (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                  Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                             (Dollars in thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
              For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

(1)      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

         (A)      Principles of consolidation and basis of presentation

                  The consolidated financial statements, which include the
         accounts of W. R. Berkley Corporation and its subsidiaries ("the
         Company"), have been prepared on the basis of generally accepted
         accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements
         in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
         assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
         and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
         financial statements and the revenues and expenses reflected during the
         reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. All
         significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
         eliminated. Reclassifications have been made in the 1995 and 1994
         financial statements to conform them to the presentation of the 1996
         financial statements.

         (B)      Revenue recognition

                  Insurance premiums written are recognized as earned generally
         on a pro-rata basis over the contract period. Management fees on
         insurance services contracts are recorded as earned primarily on a
         pro-rata basis over the policy period. Commission income is recognized
         as earned on the effective date of the applicable insurance policies.

         (C)      Investments

                  The Company has classified its investments into three
         categories. Securities that the Company has the positive intent and
         ability to hold to maturity are classified as "held to maturity" and
         reported at amortized cost. Securities which the Company purchased with
         the intent to sell in the near term are classified as "trading" and are
         reported at estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and losses
         reflected in the statement of operations. The remaining securities are
         classified as "available for sale" and carried at estimated fair value,
         with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable income taxes,
         excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of
         stockholders' equity.

                  Realized gains or losses represent the difference between the
         cost of securities sold and the proceeds realized upon sale. The cost
         of securities is adjusted where appropriate to include provision for
         declines in value which are considered to be other than temporary. The
         Company uses the specific identification method where possible and the
         first-in, first-out method in other instances, to determine the cost of
         securities sold. Realized gains or losses, including any provision for
         decline in value, are included in the statement of operations.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, continued

         (D)      Deferred policy acquisition costs

                  Acquisition costs (primarily commissions and premium taxes)
         incurred in writing insurance and reinsurance business are deferred and
         amortized ratably over the terms of the related contracts. Deferred
         policy acquisition costs are limited to the amounts estimated to be
         recoverable from the applicable unearned premiums and the related
         anticipated investment income by giving effect to anticipated losses,
         loss adjustment expenses and expenses necessary to maintain the
         contracts in force.

         (E)      Reserves for losses and loss expenses

                  Reserves for losses and loss expenses are an accumulation of
         amounts determined on the basis of (1) evaluation of claims for
         business written directly by the Company; (2) estimates received from
         other companies for reinsurance assumed; and (3) estimates for losses
         incurred but not reported (based on Company and industry experience).
         These estimates are periodically reviewed and, as experience develops
         and new information becomes known, the reserves are adjusted as
         necessary. Such adjustments are reflected in results of operations in
         the period in which they are determined.

                  A subsidiary of the Company, Midwest Employers Casualty
         Company ("Midwest") which was acquired in November 1995, discounts its
         liabilities for excess workers' compensation ("EWC") losses and loss
         expenses using a "risk-free" rate. Midwest discounts its EWC
         liabilities because of the long period of time over which it pays
         losses. The Company believes that utilizing a "risk-free" rate to
         discount these reserves more closely reflects the economics associated
         with the excess workers' compensation line of business (see Note 12 of
         notes to consolidated financial statements).

         (F)      Reinsurance ceded

                  Ceded unearned premiums are reported as prepaid reinsurance
         premiums and estimated amounts of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid
         losses are included in due from reinsurers. To the extent any reinsurer
         does not meet its obligations under reinsurance agreements, the
         liability must be discharged by the Company. The Company has provided
         reserves for uncollectible reinsurance.

         (G)      Excess of cost over net assets acquired

                  Costs in excess of the net assets of subsidiaries acquired are
         being amortized on a straight-line basis over 25 to 40 years. The
         Company continually evaluates the amortization period of its intangible
         assets. Estimates of useful lives are revised when circumstances or
         events indicate that the original estimate is no longer appropriate.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, continued

         (H)      Federal income taxes

                  The Company files a consolidated Federal income tax return. In
         1995 and prior years, Signet Star Holdings, Inc. filed its own
         consolidated Federal income tax return.

                  The Company's method of accounting for income taxes is the
         asset and liability method. Under the asset and liability method,
         deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured annually using tax
         rates currently in effect or expected to apply in the years in which
         those temporary differences are expected to reverse.

         (I)      Stock Options

                  In October 1995, FASB Statement No. 123 "Accounting for
         Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS 123) was issued by the FASB which is
         effective for fiscal year December 31, 1996. FAS 123 provides an
         alternative to continue the Company's current method of accounting for
         stock based compensation, or to adopt the fair value method of
         accounting which would require the Company to expense, over the service
         or vesting period, the fair value of employees stock based compensation
         at the date of the grant. The Company will continue its present method
         of accounting for its stock option plan under APB No. 25.

         (J)      Recent Accounting Pronouncements

                  In June 1996, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
         Standards No. 125, entitled "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
         Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities." The Statement
         establishes standards for determining whether transfers of "financial
         assets" such as securities are to be accounted for as sales, or
         alternatively, as secured borrowings. The Statement, which applies to
         transactions beginning in 1997, is not expected to have a material
         impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

(2)      Acquisitions

                  In 1996 several acquisitions were completed for an aggregate
         consideration of approximately $15,955,000. The acquisitions were
         accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the results of operations
         of the acquired companies have been included from the respective dates
         of acquisition. Proforma results of operations have been omitted as
         such effects are not significant.

                  Net assets of the acquired companies for 1996 were as follows:
         Investments in fixed maturity and equity securities of $6,434,000; cash
         and invested cash of $4,216,000; excess of cost over net assets
         acquired of $7,138,000; and other liabilities, net of other assets of
         $1,833,000.

                  During 1995, the Company purchased majority interests in two
         property and casualty companies in Argentina for consideration of
         approximately $9.2 million, which constituted a portion of the
         Company's initial contribution to Berkley International, LLC. The
         proforma effect of these transactions on the Company's results of
         operations is not significant.

                  On November 8, 1995, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of
         MECC, Inc., the Parent of Midwest Employers Casualty Company, for
         $141,908,000. In connection with this acquisition, the Company also
         retired approximately $19,590,000 of MECC, Inc.'s debt. The purchase
         was funded by the issuance of 3,450,000 shares of Common Stock issued
         at $43.75 per share. On December 31, 1995, the Company acquired General
         Re Corporation's ("General Re")


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(2)      Acquisitions, continued

         40% interest in Signet Star Holdings, Inc. ("Signet Star") by issuing
         to General Re 458,667 shares of Series B Cumulative Redeemable
         Preferred Stock of the Company having an aggregate liquidation
         preference of $68,800,000. The only significant effect on the Company's
         financial statements from this acquisition is an increase in preferred
         stock outstanding and the elimination of the related minority interest
         because Signet Star's results of operations were previously
         consolidated.

                  All of the acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and,
         accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired companies have
         been included from the dates of acquisition.

                  The net assets acquired in 1995 were as follows (dollars in
         thousands):




                  On July 1, 1993, the Company exchanged all the stock of Signet
         Reinsurance Company ("Signet") for 60% of the stock of Signet Star, a
         newly formed holding company. Signet Star simultaneously acquired all
         the stock of North Star Reinsurance Company ("North Star Reinsurance")
         from General Re in exchange for 40% of the stock of Signet Star and
         senior and convertible notes. In connection with the formation of
         Signet Star, North Star Reinsurance entered into a Retrocessional
         Agreement (the "Retrocessional Agreement") with General Reinsurance
         Corporation ("GRC"), pursuant to which North Star Reinsurance reinsured
         its respective liabilities and assigned its respective rights and
         obligations arising from any insurance or reinsurance contracts written
         prior to January 1, 1993 with and to GRC.

                  In connection with the 1995 acquisition of the remaining 40%
         interest in Signet Star, North Star Reinsurance was sold to General Re
         and all business written subsequent to July 1, 1993 was novated to
         Signet Star. As a result, business written by North Star Reinsurance
         prior to January 1, 1993, which had been retroceded to General Re, is
         no longer reflected in the Company's financial statements. The only
         effect on the Company's financial statements resulting from this aspect
         of the transaction is that the Company's reserves for losses and loss
         expenses is reduced by $735,144,000 and "due from reinsurers" is
         reduced by the same amount. This aspect of the transaction does not
         effect the Company's cash flow, equity or statements of operations.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(2)      Acquisitions, continued

                  The Company's consolidated Proforma results of operations
         assuming the acquisitions of MECC, Inc. and the remaining 40% interest
         in Signet Star occurred as of January 1, 1995 and 1994, respectively,
         are as follows (dollars in thousands):



                  The Proforma consolidated financial data do not purport to
         represent what the Company's results of operations actually would have
         been had the acquisitions and related financings occurred on the dates
         indicated, or to project the Company's results of operations for any
         future period. The above amounts primarily reflect the effects on
         results of operations of certain adjustments resulting from the
         revaluation of assets and liabilities of the purchased companies and
         from the financing of such acquisitions.

(3)      Federal Income Taxes

                  The Federal income tax expense (benefit) consists of (dollars
         in thousands):




                  A reconciliation of the Federal income tax expense (benefit)
         and the amounts computed by applying the Federal income tax rate of 35%
         to pre-tax income is as follows (dollars in thousands):




                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(3)      Federal Income Taxes, continued

                  At December 31, 1996 and 1995, the tax effects of differences
         that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax asset and
         deferred tax liability are as follows (dollars in thousands):



                  The Federal income tax expense (benefit) applicable to
         realized investment gains (losses) was $2,603,000, $3,664,000 and
         ($61,000) in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Company had a
         current income tax payable of $6,224,000 and a current income tax
         receivable of $210,000 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

                  The realization of the deferred tax asset is dependent upon
         the Company's ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future
         periods. Based on historical results and the prospects for current
         operations, management anticipates that it is more likely than not that
         future taxable income will be sufficient for the realization of this
         asset. In establishing the amount of the deferred tax asset, management
         has included a valuation allowance for the future uncertainty
         associated with the extended time period required for the complete
         reversal of the effects of loss reserve discounting.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(4)      Long-Term debt

                  Long-term debt consists of the following:



                  The difference between the face value of long-term debt and
         the carrying value is unamortized discount. All outstanding long-term
         debt is not redeemable until maturity and ranks on a parity with all
         other outstanding indebtedness of the Company. In 1995 long-term debt
         included a note payable to banks pursuant to a revolving credit
         facility entered into by Signet Star. The face value of the debt at
         December 31, 1995 was $28,400,000 and the carrying value was
         $28,306,000. The interest rate was based on the London Interbank
         offered rate plus .75% to 1.50% and was 5.75% at December 31, 1995. The
         debt was retired in January 1996.

(5)      Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of a
         subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debt securities

                  The Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
         securities of a subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated
         debenture ("Capital Trust Securities") were issued by the W.R. Berkley
         Capital Trust ("the Trust"). All of the common securities of the Trust
         are owned by the Company. The trust exists for the exclusive purpose of
         issuing the Capital Trust Securities and investing the proceeds in a
         junior subordinated debenture of the Company with similar interest
         rates, principal amount and maturities. The Capital Trust Securities
         are guaranteed by the Company as to the payment of distributions and
         the payment of liquidation of the Capital Trust Securities within
         certain limits. The Capital Trust Securities have a face value of
         $210,000,000, mature on December 15, 2045 and require preferential
         cumulative cash distributions at an annual rate of 8.197%.

                  The Capital Trust Securities are subject to mandatory
         redemption in a like amount,(i) in whole but not in part, on the stated
         maturity date, upon repayment of the junior subordinated debentures,
         (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time contemporaneously with the
         optional prepayment of the junior subordinated debentures by the
         Company upon the occurrence and continuation of a certain event and
         (iii) in whole or in part, on or after December 15, 2006 and
         contemporaneously with the optional prepayment by the Company of junior
         subordinated debentures.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(6)      Commitments, Litigation and Contingent Liabilities

                  At present, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries
         are engaged in any litigation known to the Company which management
         believes will have a material adverse effect upon the Company's
         business. As is common with other insurance companies, the Company's
         subsidiaries are regularly engaged in the defense of claims arising out
         of the conduct of the insurance business.

                  On September 11, 1995, the Company formed Berkley
         International, LLC ("Berkley International"), a limited liability
         company. The Company is obligated to contribute $45.5 million to
         Berkley International over the next seven years as required.

(7)      Lease Obligations

                  The Company and several of its subsidiaries use office space
         and equipment under leases expiring at various dates through September
         1, 2004. These leases are operating leases for financial reporting
         purposes. Some of these leases have options to extend the length of the
         leases and contain clauses for cost of living, operating expense and
         real estate tax adjustments. Rental expense was approximately;
         $11,098,000, $9,437,000 and $8,000,000 for 1996, 1995 and 1994
         respectively. Future minimum lease payments (without provision for
         sublease income) are: $9,814,000 in 1997; $9,202,000 in 1998;
         $7,292,000 in 1999; $5,516,000 in 2000; $3,855,000 in 2001; and
         $11,799,000 thereafter.

(8)      Stockholders' Equity

                  Per share data have been computed based on the weighted
         average number of common shares outstanding. The assumed dilutive
         effect of employee stock options was not material. Treasury shares have
         been excluded from average outstanding shares from the date of
         acquisition. The number of shares used in the computations was
         19,861,000, 17,414,000, and 17,182,000 for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
         respectively.

                  Changes in shares of Common Stock outstanding, net of treasury
         shares, are as follows (in thousands):



                  As of December 31, 1996 930,807 shares of the 7 3/8% Series A
         Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding.
         During January 1997, the Company purchased an additional 183,080 shares
         for an aggregate cost of $28,506,000. In addition, $115,800,000 was
         placed in a trust which will be used to service the remaining
         outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. The Company expects that the
         proceeds of the trust will be utilized to redeem the Series A Preferred
         Stock on January 25, 1999.

                  In December 1995, the Company issued 458,667 shares of
         variable rate series B cumulative redeemable Preferred Stock at its
         fair value of $66,000,000. The Series B Preferred Stock was being
         accreted to its stated value of $68,800,000 over 18 months. During
         1996, the Company purchased all outstanding shares of the Series B
         Preferred Stock for $66 million.


                    W.R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(9)  Stock Option Plan

                  The Company adopted the W. R. Berkley Corporation 1992 Stock
         Option Plan under which 1,750,000 shares of Common Stock were reserved
         for issuance. Pursuant to the Plan, options may be granted at prices
         determined by the Board of Directors but not less than 85% of the fair
         market value on the date of grant. To date, options have been granted
         with an exercise price equal to the average of the high and low market
         price on the date of grant.

         The following table summarizes option information, including options
         granted under both the 1992 and prior plans:



                  As discussed previously, FAS 123 provides an alternative to
         continue the Company's current method of accounting for stock based
         compensation, or to adopt the fair value method of accounting. The
         Company will continue its present method of accounting for its stock
         option plan under APB No. 25; accordingly, the adoption of the
         Statement will have no effect on the Company's financial statements.

                  The fair value of the options granted under FAS 123 is
         estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing
         model with the following weighted average assumptions for 1996 and 1995
         respectively: (a) dividend yield of 1%, (b) expected volatility of 20%,
         (c) risk free interest rate of 6.65% and 6.37%, and (d) expected life
         of 7.5 years. The weighted average fair value of options granted during
         the year were $16.15 and $15.58 for the year ended December 31, 1996
         and 1995, respectively. The following table summarizes information
         about stock options outstanding at December 31, 1996 and 1995:


                    W.R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(9)  Stock Option Plan, Continued



                  Had compensation costs for the Company's 1996 and 1995 grants
         been determined under the cost recognition alternative of FAS 123, the
         effect on the Company's net income and net income attributable to
         common shareholders would have been immaterial.


(10)     Profit Sharing Retirement Plan

                  The Company and its subsidiaries have profit sharing
         retirement plans in which substantially all employees participate. The
         plans provide for minimum annual contributions of 5% of eligible
         compensation; contributions above the minimum are discretionary and
         vary with each participating subsidiary's profitability. Employees
         become eligible to participate in the Retirement Plans on the first day
         of the month following the first full three months in which they are
         employed. Profit sharing expense amounted to $7,370,000, $6,344,000 and
         $5,625,000 for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(11)     Investments

                  At December 31, 1996 and 1995, there were no investments,
         other than investments in United States government securities, which
         exceeded 10% of stockholders' equity. At December 31, 1996 and 1995,
         investments were as follows:



(a)      Adjusted as necessary for amortization of premium or discount.

(b)      Includes United States government agencies and authorities.

(c)      Short-term investments which mature within three months of the date of
         purchase.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(11)     Investments, continued



(a)      Adjusted as necessary for amortization of premium or discount.

(b)      Includes United States government agencies and authorities.

(c)      Short-term investments which mature within three months of the date of
         purchase.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(11)     Investments, continued

                  The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity
         securities, at December 31, 1996, by contractual maturity, are shown
         below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because
         certain issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations
         (dollars in thousands):



                  Realized gains (losses) and the change in difference between
         fair value and cost of investments, before applicable income taxes, are
         as follows (dollars in thousands):



(a)      During 1996, 1995 and 1994, gross gains of $5,904,000, $11,570,000 and
         $5,601,000, respectively, and gross losses of $4,054,000, $3,751,000
         and $8,177,000, respectively, were realized.

(b)      The provision for decline in value of investments is $3,485,000,
         $3,333,000 and $7,172,000 as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
         respectively. The 1996 increase is due to additional writedowns, the
         decrease in 1995 and 1994 resulted from the sale of securities.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(11)     Investments, continued

         Investment income consists of the following (dollars in thousands):



(a)      The primary focus of the trading account is merger and municipal fixed
         income arbitrage. Merger arbitrage is the business of investing in the
         securities of publicly held companies which are the targets in
         announced tender offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from
         other types of investments in its focus on transactions and events
         believed likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively
         short time period (usually four months or less). The Company believes
         that this makes merger arbitrage investments less vulnerable to changes
         in general financial market conditions. Potential changes in market
         conditions are also mitigated by the implementation of short sales.

         In November 1996, the Company invested $10,000,000 in a municipal
         security trading partnership. The primary focus of the partnership is
         municipal arbitrage. Municipal arbitrage is an investment strategy
         which attempts to capitalize on the certain anomilies which tend to
         occur in the municipal bond market. Such inefficiencies are arbitraged
         through a disciplined use of futures, options and municipal bond
         positions.

         The arbitrage positions are generally hedged against market declines by
         purchasing put options, selling call options or entering into future
         contracts. Therefore, just as long portfolio positions may also incur
         losses during market declines, hedge positions may incur losses during
         market advances. As of December 31, 1996 the notional amount of option
         and future contracts outstanding are $30,242,000 and $41,100,000,
         respectively. As of December 31, 1996 the net short market value of
         option and future contracts outstanding are $948,000 and $184,000,
         respectively.

         Investment income earned from trading account activity includes
         unrealized trading gains of $2,013,000, $352,000 and $1,271,000 for
         1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(12)     Reserves for losses and loss expenses

                  The table below provides a reconciliation of the beginning and
         ending reserve balances, on a gross of reinsurance basis, (dollars in
         thousands):



                  Due to the nature of Excess Workers Compensation ("EWC")
         business and the long period of time over which losses are paid in this
         line of business, the Company discounts the liability for losses and
         loss expenses established for the excess workers' compensation line of
         business. Discounting liabilities for losses and loss expenses gives
         recognition to the time value of money set aside to pay claims in the
         future and is intended to appropriately match losses and loss expense
         to income earned on investment securities supporting the liabilities.
         The expected losses and loss expense payout pattern subject to
         discounting was derived from Midwest's loss payout experience and is
         supplemented with data compiled from insurance companies writing
         workers' compensation on an excess-of-loss basis. The expected payout
         pattern has a very long duration because it reflects the nature of
         losses which generally penetrate self-insured retention limits
         contained in excess workers' compensation policies. The Company has
         limited the payout duration to 30 years in order to introduce an
         additional level of conservatism into the discounting process. The
         liabilities for losses and loss expenses have been discounted using
         "risk-free" discount rates determined by reference to the U.S. Treasury
         yield curve weighted for the EWC premium volume to reflect the
         seasonality of the anticipated duration of losses associated with such
         coverages. The average discount rate for accident years 1996 and 1995
         and prior is 5.90% and 5.80%, respectively. The aggregate net discount,
         after reflecting the effects of ceded reinsurance, is $172,415,000 and
         $152,235,000 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. For Statutory
         purposes, Midwest uses a discount rate of 3.0% as permitted by the
         Department of Insurance of the State of Ohio.

                  To date, known pollution and environmental claims at the
         insurance company subsidiaries have not had a material impact on the
         Company's operations. Environmental claims have not materially impacted
         the Company because our subsidiaries generally did not insure the
         larger industrial companies which are subject to significant
         environmental exposures.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(12)     Reserves for losses and loss expenses, continued

                  The Company's net reserves for losses and loss adjustment
         expenses relating to pollution and environmental claims were $35.2
         million and $30.8 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
         The Company's gross reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
         relating to pollution and environmental claims were $71.9 million and
         $59.4 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Net incurred
         losses and loss expenses for reported pollution and environmental
         claims were approximately $6.9 million, $8.0 million and $5.6 million
         in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Net paid losses and loss expenses
         has averaged approximately $3 million for each of the last three years.
         The estimation of these liabilities is subject to significantly greater
         than normal variation and uncertainty because it is difficult to make a
         reasonable actuarial estimate of these liabilities due to the absence
         of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for these exposures and
         the potential affect of significant unresolved legal matters, including
         coverage issues as well as the cost of litigating the legal issues.
         Additionally, the determination of ultimate damages and the final
         allocation of such damages to financially responsible parties is highly
         uncertain.

(13)     Reinsurance Ceded

                  The Company follows the customary industry practice of
         reinsuring a portion of its exposures principally to reduce net
         liability on individual risks and to protect against catastrophic
         losses. The following amounts arising under reinsurance ceded contracts
         have been deducted in arriving at the amounts reflected in the
         statement of operations (dollars in thousands):



(14)     Dividends from Subsidiaries and Statutory Financial Information

                  The Company's insurance subsidiaries are restricted by law as
         to the amount of dividends they may pay without the approval of
         regulatory authorities. During 1997, the maximum amount of dividends
         which can be paid without such approval is approximately $69,235,000.

                  Combined net income and policyholders' surplus of the
         Company's consolidated insurance subsidiaries, as determined in
         accordance with statutory accounting practices, are as follows (dollars
         in thousands):




                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                  At December 31, 1996 and 1995, bonds with a market value of
         $139,497,000 and $137,579,000 were on deposit with various state
         Insurance Departments as required by state laws.

                  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC")
         has adopted risk based capital ("RBC") requirements that require
         insurance companies to calculate and report information under a
         risk-based formula which measures statutory capital and surplus needs
         based on a regulatory definition of risk in a company's mix of products
         and its balance sheet. The implementation of RBC did not effect the
         operations of the Company's insurance subsidiaries since all of its
         subsidiaries have an RBC amount above the authorized control level RBC,
         as defined by the NAIC.


(15)     Supplemental Financial Statement Data

                  Other operating costs and expenses consist of the following
         (dollars in thousands):




(16)     Industry Segments

                  The Company's operations are presently conducted through five
         basic segments: regional property casualty insurance; reinsurance;
         specialty lines of insurance; alternative markets operations; and
         international. Summary financial information about the Company's
         operating segments is presented in the following table. Income before
         income taxes by segment consists of revenues less expenses related to
         the respective segment's operations. These amounts include realized
         gains (losses) where applicable. Intersegment revenues consist
         primarily of dividends, interest on intercompany debt and fees paid by
         subsidiaries for portfolio management and other services to the
         Company. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the
         operation of each segment.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(16)     Industry Segments, continued (Dollars in thousands)



(1)    As of and for the year ended December 31, 1995 the results of the
       regional segment have been restated to reflect the international segment
       as a separate segment.


                   W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(17)     Fair value of Financial Instruments

                  The following table presents the carrying amounts and
         estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments as of
         December 31, 1996 and 1995 (dollars in thousands):



                  The estimated fair value of investments is based on quoted
         market prices as of the respective reporting dates. The fair value of
         the long-term debt is based on rates available for borrowings similar
         to the Company's outstanding debt as of the respective reporting dates.

(18)     Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited)

                  The following is a summary of quarterly financial data:






                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The following information is provided as to the Directors and executive
officers of the Company as of March 4, 1997:



         As permitted by Delaware law, the Board of Directors of the Company is
divided into three classes, the classes being divided as equally as possible and
each class having a term of three years. Directors generally serve until their
respective successors are elected at the annual meeting of stockholders which
ends their term. None of the Company's Directors has any family relationship
with any other Director or executive officer. Each year the term of office of
one class expires. In May 1996, the term of a class consisting of three
Directors expired. Richard G. Merrill, Jack H. Nusbaum and Mark L. Shapiro were
elected as Directors to hold office for a term of three years until the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders in 1999 and until their successors are duly chosen. John
D. Vollaro was elected a Director to hold office for a term which expires at the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 1998. Officers of the Company are elected
annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

         William R. Berkley has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company since its formation in 1967. He also served as President
at various times from 1967 to 1995. He also serves as Chairman of the Board or
Director of a number of public and private companies. These include Signet Star
Holdings, Inc., a reinsurance holding company owned by the Company; Pioneer
Companies, Inc., a chemical manufacturing and marketing company; Fine Host
Corporation, a contract food service management company; Strategic Distribution,
Inc., an industrial products distribution and services company; and Interlaken
Capital, Inc., a private investment firm with interests in various businesses.
His current term as a Director expires in 1997.


         John D. Vollaro was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of
the Company effective January 2, 1996 and Director effective September 13, 1995.
He has been Chief Executive Officer of Signet Star Holdings, Inc., an affiliate
of the Company, since July 1993 and President and a Director of Signet Star
Holdings, Inc. since February 1993. He served as Executive Vice President of the
Company from 1991 until 1993 and was Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of
the Company from 1983 through 1993; and Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company from 1983 to 1991. Mr. Vollaro's current
term as a Director expires in 1998.

         Sam Daniel, Jr. has been Senior Vice President - Regional Operations
since April 1990. Prior thereto, he was employed by Hanover Insurance Company
for more than five years as Vice President.

         Anthony J. Del Tufo has been Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company since September 1993. Before joining the
Company Mr. Del Tufo was a partner with KPMG Peat Marwick from 1975 to 1993.

         Robert S. Gorin has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary since July 1989. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gorin was Assistant
Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of J.C. Penney Co., Inc., where he had
been employed since 1971.

         E. LeRoy Heer has been Senior Vice President - Chief Corporate Actuary
since January 1991. Prior thereto, he had been Vice President - Corporate
Actuary since May 1978.

         H. Raymond Lankford was named Senior Vice President - Alternative
Markets Operations in April 1996. Prior thereto, he was President of All
American, a subsidiary of the Company, from October 1991 having joined All
American in 1990. He has been in the insurance business in various capacities
for more than 20 years.

         Ira S. Lederman was named Senior Vice President in January 1997. He is
also Assistant General Counsel a position he has held since July 1989 and
Assistant Secretary since May 1986. Previously, he was Vice President from May
1986 until January 1997. Prior thereto he was Insurance Counsel of the Company
since May 1986 and Associate Counsel from April 1983.

         James G. Shiel was named Senior Vice President - Investments of the
Company in January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Investments of
the Company since January 1992. Since February 1994, he has been President of
Berkley Dean & Company, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, which he joined in
1987.

         Edward A. Thomas has been Senior Vice President - Specialty Operations
of the Company since April 1991. Prior thereto, he was President of Signet
Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of the Company, for more than five years.

         Robert P. Cole was named Vice President in October 1996. Before joining
the Company Mr. Cole was a senior Officer of Christania Reinsurance Company of
New York which was purchased by Folksamerica Reinsurance Company in 1996 and
prior to that was associated with reinsurers for twenty years.

         Clement P. Patafio was named Vice President - Corporate Controller in
January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Assistant Vice President - Corporate
Controller in July 1994 and Assistant Controller since May 1993. Before joining
the Company Mr. Patafio was with KPMG Peat Marwick from 1986 to 1993.

         Scott A. Siegel was named Vice President - Taxes in January 1997. Prior
thereto, he was Director of Taxes since September 1991. Before joining the
Company Mr. Siegel was with KPMG Peat Marwick from 1981 to 1991.

         Robert B. Hodes has been a Director of the Company since 1970. Mr.
Hodes is Counsel to the New York law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher. He is
also a director of Aerointernational, Inc.; Crystal Oil Company; Global
Telecommunications, Limited.; Loral Corporation; Loral Space & Tele
Communications Ltd.; Mueller Industries, Inc.; R.V.I.


Guaranty, Ltd.; LCH Investments N.V.; and Restructured Capital Holdings, Ltd.
Mr. Hodes' current term as a Director expires in 1997.

         Henry Kaufman has been a Director of the Company since 1994. Dr.
Kaufman is President of Henry Kaufman & Co., Inc., an investment, economic and
financial consulting company since its establishment in 1988. Dr. Kaufman serves
as Chairman of the Board of Overseers, Stern Schools of Business of NYU;
Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Institute of International Education; Member
of the Board of Directors, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.; Member of the Board
of Directors, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.; Member of the Board of Trustees,
New York University; and Member of the International Capital Markets Advisory
Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Dr. Kaufman's current term as
a Director expires in 1998.

         Richard G. Merrill has been a Director of the Company since 1994. Mr.
Merrill was Executive Vice President of Prudential Insurance Company of America
from August 1987 to March 1991 when he retired. Prior thereto, Mr. Merrill
served as Chairman and President of Prudential Asset Management Company since
1985. Mr. Merrill is a Director of Sysco Corp. Mr. Merrill's current term as a
Director expires in 1999.

         Jack H. Nusbaum has been a Director of the Company since 1967. Mr.
Nusbaum is the Chairman in the New York law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher
where he has been a partner for more than the last five years. He is a director
of Pioneer Companies, Inc.; Fine Host Corporation; Strategic Distribution Inc.;
Prime Hospitality Corp.; and The Topps Company, Inc. Mr. Nusbaum's current term
as a Director expires in 1999.

         Mark L. Shapiro has been a Director of the Company since 1974. Mr.
Shapiro is a Managing Director in the investment banking firm of Schroder
Wertheim & Co. Incorporated for more than the past five years. Mr. Shapiro's
current term as a Director expires in 1999.

         Martin Stone has been a Director of Berkley since 1990. Mr. Stone is
Chairman of Professional Sports, Inc. (the Phoenix Firebirds AAA baseball team)
and Chairman of Adirondack Corporation, for more than five years. Mr. Stone is
also a director of Canyon Ranch, Inc. and a member of the Advisory Board of
Yosemite National Park. Mr. Stone's current term as a Director expires in 1998.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1996, and which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         (a) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1996, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

         (b) Security ownership of management

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1996, and which is incorporated herein by reference.


         (c) Changes in control

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1996, and which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1996, and which is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)      Index to Financial Statements

         The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed on the
         Index to Financial Statements on page 30 hereof.


         Index to Financial Statement Schedules                             Page
         --------------------------------------                             ----

         Independent Auditors' Report on Schedules and Consent               64

         Schedule II - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant         65

         Schedule III - Supplementary Insurance Information                  69

         Schedule IV - Reinsurance                                           70

         Schedule VI - Supplementary Information concerning
                        Property & Casualty Insurance Operations             71


(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

         On December 13, 1996, the Company filed a current report on Form 8-K
         announcing the issuance of the Capital Trust Securities.

(c)      Exhibits

         The exhibits filed as part of this report are listed on pages 62 and 63
         hereof.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
         Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
         its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                           W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION



                           By                WILLIAM R. BERKLEY
                               ---------------------------------------------
                               William R. Berkley, Chairman of the Board and
                                           Chief Executive Officer


March 11, 1997


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




ITEM 14.  (c)      EXHIBITS



Number

(2.1)      Agreement and Plan of Merger between the Company, Berkley Newco Corp.
           and MECC, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the
           current reports on Form 8-K (file No. 0-7849) filed with the
           Commission September 28, 1995).

(2.2)      Agreement and Plan of Restructuring, dated July 20, 1995, by and
           among the Company, Signet Star Holdings, Inc., Signet Star
           Reinsurance Company, Signet Reinsurance Company and General Re
           Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 of the
           Company's current Report on Form 8-K (file No. 0-7849) filed with the
           Commission on September 28, 1995).

(3.1)      Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended

(3.2)      By-laws

(4)        The instruments defining the rights of holders of the long-term debt
           securities of the Company are omitted pursuant to Section
           (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Company agrees to
           furnish supplementally copies of these instruments to the Commission
           upon request.

(10.1)     The Company's 1982 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
           (File No. 2-98396) filed with the Commission on June 14, 1985).

(10.2)     The Company's 1992 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 28.1 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
           (File No. 33-55726) filed with the Commission on December 15, 1992).

(10.2a)    Signet Star Holdings, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 10.14 of Signet Star Holdings, Inc. Registration
           Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-69964) filed with the Commission
           on October 4, 1993).

(10.3)     The Company's lease dated June 3, 1983 with the Ahneman, Devaul and
           Devaul Partnership, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
           Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 2-98396) filed
           with the Commission on June 14, 1985.

(10.4)     W.R. Berkley Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for officers as
           amended January 1, 1991.

(10.5)     W. R. Berkley Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors as
           adopted March 7, 1996.

(10.6)     Sale Agreement by and between the Company and Lembo-Feinerman Fleming
           Morell Trust for the acquisition of real property.


(21)       Following is a list of the Company's significant subsidiaries.
           Subsidiaries of subsidiaries are indented and the parent of each such
           corporation owns 100% of the outstanding voting securities of such
           corporation except as noted below.



(23)       See Independent Auditors' report on schedules and consent.

(28)       Information from reports furnished to state insurance regulatory
           authorities. This exhibit which will be filed supplementally includes
           the Company's combined Schedule P as prepared for its 1995 combined
           Annual Statement which will be provided to state regulatory
           authorities. The schedule has been prepared on a statutory basis. The
           combined schedule includes the historical results of the Company's
           insurance subsidiaries as if they had been owned from their inception
           date. It should be noted that the combined schedule includes data of
           seventeen operating companies and, as a result, any statistical
           extrapolation from the schedule may not be meaningful.

           (The combined Schedule P as filed with the Securities and Exchange
           Commission, has been omitted from this copy. It is available upon
           request from Mr. Anthony J. Del Tufo, Senior Vice President, Chief
           Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company, at the address shown
           on page 1.)


              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULES AND CONSENT


Board of Directors and Stockholders
W. R. Berkley Corporation




The audit referred to in our report dated February 21, 1997 included the related
financial statement schedules as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 and for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996 included in the Form
10-K. These financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statement schedules based on our audits. In our opinion, such
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

We consent to the use of our reports incorporated by reference in the
Registration Statements (No. 2-98396) on Form S-1 and (No. 33-55726) on Form S-8
and (No. 33-30684) and (No. 33-95552) and (No. 333-00459) on Forms S-3 and (No.
33-88640) on Form S-8 of W. R. Berkley Corporation.

                                                 KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



New York, New York
March 21, 1997


                                                                     Schedule II

                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                         Balance Sheets (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)



See note to condensed financial statements.



                                                          Schedule II, Continued


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued
                    Statements of Operations (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)




See note to condensed financial statements.


                             Schedule II, Continued

                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued
                    Statement of Cash Flows (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)



See note to condensed financial statements


                             Schedule II, Continued


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation

            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued

                        December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

             Note to Condensed Financial Statements (Parent Company)


         The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in
conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere herein. Reclassifications have been made in the 1995 and 1994
financial statements as originally reported to conform them to the presentation
of the 1996 financial statements.

         The Company files a consolidated federal tax return with the results of
its domestic insurance subsidiaries included on a statutory basis. Under present
Company policy, Federal income taxes payable by (or refundable to) subsidiary
companies on a separate-return basis are paid to (or refunded by) W. R. Berkley
Corporation, and the Company pays the tax due on a consolidated return basis.

         Included in fixed maturities available for sale is $115,800,000 of
securities placed in a trust which will be used to service the remaining
outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock. The Company expects that the
proceeds of the trust will be utilized to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock on
January 25, 1999.


                                                                    Schedule III

                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                       Supplementary Insurance Information
                        December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                             (Amounts in thousands)






                                                                     Schedule IV


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                                   Reinsurance
                  Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                             (Amounts in thousands)





                                                                     Schedule VI


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
   Supplementary Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations
                        December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                             (Amounts in thousands)






