
10-K
y46799e10-k.txt
FORM 10-K







                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           (Mark One)

        [X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                       OR
        [ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                For the transition period from ______ to ______.

                          Commission file number 0-7849

                            W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (203) 629-3000

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     Common stock, par value $.20 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding twelve months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
based on the closing price of such stock on the Nasdaq National Market as of
March 7, 2001: $1,156,879,996.

Number of shares of common stock, $.20 par value, outstanding as of March 7,
2001: 28,861,309

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2000 are incorporated herein by reference in Part II, and portions
of the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2000, are
incorporated herein by reference in Part III.

                            W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                December 31, 2000





                              SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
                          UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES
                          LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995


         This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any
forward-looking statements contained herein, including those related to the
Company's performance for the year 2001 and beyond, are based upon the Company's
historical performance and on current plans, estimates and expectations. They
are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to,
the cyclical nature of the property casualty industry, the long-tail and
potentially volatile nature of the reinsurance business, the impact of
competition, product demand and pricing, claims development and the process of
estimating reserves, the level of the Company's retentions, catastrophe and
storm losses, legislative and regulatory developments, changes in the ratings
assigned to the Company by rating agencies, investment results, availability of
reinsurance, the effects of our recent restructuring, availability of dividends
from our insurance company subsidiaries, our successful integration of acquired
companies, investing substantial amounts in our information systems and
technology, the ability of our reinsurers to pay reinsurance recoverables owed
to us, exchange rate and political risks and other risks detailed from time to
time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
including this Annual Report on Form 10-K (see "Certain Factors That May Affect
Future Results" herein). These risks could cause the Company's actual results
for the year 2001 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company. Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking
statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or
otherwise.



                                     PART I

ITEM     1.  BUSINESS

         W. R. Berkley Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is an insurance
holding company which, through our subsidiaries, presently operates in five
segments of the property casualty insurance business: specialty lines of
insurance (including excess and surplus lines and commercial transportation);
alternative markets (including the management of alternative insurance market
mechanisms); reinsurance; regional property casualty insurance; and
international. This structure provides the flexibility to respond to local or
specific market conditions and pursue specialty business niches. It also allows
us to be closer to our customers to better understand their individual needs and
risk characteristics. The holding company structure allows us to capitalize on
the benefits of economies of scale through centralized capital, investment and
reinsurance management and actuarial, financial and legal staff support.

         Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Form 10-K to "W. R.
Berkley," "we," "us," "our," the "Company" or similar terms refer to W. R.
Berkley Corporation together with its subsidiaries.

       Our specialty insurance, alternative markets and reinsurance operations
are conducted nationwide. Regional insurance operations are conducted primarily
in the Midwest, New England, South, and Mid Atlantic regions of the United
States. Presently, international operations are conducted primarily in Argentina
and the Philippines.

       Net premiums written, as reported on a generally accepted accounting
principles ("GAAP") basis, by the Company's five major insurance industry
segments for each of the past five years were as follows:



         The following sections briefly describe our insurance segments. The
statutory information contained herein is derived from that reported to state
regulatory authorities in accordance with statutory accounting practices
("SAP"). All of the domestic insurance subsidiaries have an A.M. Best Company,
Inc. ("A.M. Best") rating of "A (Excellent)", other than Admiral Insurance
Company, which has a rating of "A+ (Superior)". A.M. Best's ratings are based
upon factors of concern to policyholders, insurance agents and brokers and are
not directed toward the protection of investors. A.M. Best reviews its ratings
on a periodic basis, and ratings of the Company's subsidiaries are therefore
subject to change.



                         SPECIALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

         Our specialty segment underwrites complex and sophisticated third-party
liability risks, principally within the excess and surplus ("E&S") lines,
property, professional liability, surety and commercial transportation markets.
The specialty business is conducted through six operating units. The different
companies within the segment are divided along the different customer bases and
product lines which they serve. The specialty units deliver their products
through a variety of distribution channels depending on the customer base and
particular risks insured. The customers in this segment are highly diverse.

         Admiral Insurance ("Admiral") specializes in E&S coverages, including
general liability, professional liability and property. Admiral insures risks
requiring specialized treatment not available in the conventional market, with
coverage designed to meet the specific needs of the insured. Business is
received from wholesale brokers via retail agents, whose clients are the
insureds. Admiral operates primarily on a non-admitted basis. Admiral's business
is obtained on a nationwide basis from approximately 190 non-exclusive brokers.

         Coverages are provided to a wide variety of customers which, until
February 2000, included nursing homes and assisted care facilities. In February
2000, Admiral ceased issuing policies to such facilities due to the difficult
legal environment and underwriting results for this business.

         Nautilus Insurance ("Nautilus") insures E&S risks which involve a lower
degree of expected severity than those covered by Admiral. Nautilus obtains its
business nationwide from approximately 135 non-exclusive general agents, some of
which also provide business to Admiral. A substantial portion of Nautilus'
business is written on a binding authority basis, subject to certain contractual
limitations. Nautilus operates primarily on a non-admitted basis. Nautilus also
writes transportation risks, as well as other specialty losses, on an admitted
basis.

         Monitor Liability Managers ("Monitor") is our professional liability
underwriting unit. Monitor writes directors' and officers' and lawyers'
professional coverages. Monitor continues to develop two other insurance lines -
management liability and employment practices liability. Its business is
developed nationally through a combination of wholesale and retail sources.

         Carolina Casualty ("Carolina") writes liability, physical damage and
cargo insurance for the transportation industry, concentrating on long-haul
trucking companies. Public transportation insurance for such risks as charter
buses and school buses also make up a substantial part of Carolina's business.
Carolina's business is obtained nationwide from approximately 120 agents and
brokers. During 2000, in response to the competitive market environment, we
substantially reduced our writings of commercial transportation business;
however, we expect to increase our writings in 2001 as market conditions
improve.

         Clermont Specialty Managers ("Clermont") writes specialty commercial
lines in the New York City metropolitan area. These include package insurance
programs for luxury condominium, cooperative and rental apartment buildings and
restaurants, and motorcycle coverages. Product distribution is through retail
agents and wholesale brokers.

         Monitor Surety Managers ("Surety") writes surety bonds in all 50
states, primarily serving the bonding needs of mid-sized contractors. It
operates five regional offices producing business mostly from retail agents
specializing in surety.

         The following table sets forth the percentage of direct premiums
written by each specialty unit:





         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by line, by our specialty insurance operations:




                               ALTERNATIVE MARKETS

         Our alternative markets operations specialize in developing, insuring,
reinsuring and administering self-insurance programs and other alternative risk
transfer mechanisms. Our clients include employers, employer groups, reinsurers,
alternative markets funds and other insurers seeking less costly, more efficient
ways to manage exposure to risks. In addition to providing insurance, the
alternative markets segment also provides a wide variety of fee-based services,
including consulting and administrative services.

         Each of our alternative markets divisions is involved in risk
management and is organized according to one of the following product areas:
insuring excess workers' compensation, or EWC, risks; insuring primary workers'
compensation risks; providing non-risk bearing administrative services
nationwide and offering reinsurance products to alternative markets clients.

         Excess workers' compensation. We market and underwrite EWC insurance
and related risk management services, including a full range of consulting
services. EWC insurance is marketed primarily to employers and employer groups
that self-insure their workers' compensation programs. EWC insurance provides
coverage to self-insured employers and employer groups once their losses exceed
a specified retention amount. We offer a complete line of products, including
specific and aggregate insurance policies and surety bonds.

         Primary workers' compensation. Primary workers' compensation insurance
is provided in California to the small employer market and in North Carolina
primarily to employers moving out of associations or individual self-insurance.

         Insurance services. Our alternative markets insurance service
operations offer a full range of alternative solutions customized to meet risk
financing needs for various structures, such as assigned risk plans, captive
insurance companies, retention pools, risk retention groups, self-funded plans
and specialty insurance company programs.

         Interaction with clients through consulting and other advisory services
is central to marketing efforts in the alternative markets. Our services include
property casualty and workers' compensation third-party administration, claims
adjustment and management, employee benefit consulting and administration,
accounting services, insurance and reinsurance risk transfer, loss control and
safety consulting, management information systems, regulatory compliance and
relations, risk management consulting, alternative markets plan management,
statistical analysis, underwriting and rating and policy issuance.

         Reinsurance. The alternative markets reinsurance division provides
custom designed reinsurance products and services to alternative markets
clients, such as captive insurance companies, risk retention groups, public
entity insurance trusts and governmental pools. These clients are generally
self-insured vehicles which provide insurance buyers with a



mechanism for retaining part of their own risk, managing their exposures,
modifying their loss costs and, ultimately, participating in the underwriting
results.

         The following table sets forth the percentages of revenues, by major
source of business, of our alternative markets operations:




                             REINSURANCE OPERATIONS

         Our reinsurance operations consist of three operating units, which
specialize in underwriting property casualty and surety reinsurance on both a
treaty and a facultative basis.

         Treaty. Our Property Casualty Treaty Division is our largest business
unit in terms of personnel and premiums written. This division is committed
exclusively to the broker market segment of the treaty reinsurance industry. It
functions as a traditional reinsurer in specialty and standard reinsurance
lines.

         In 2000, we began to focus on reinsurance lines of business which are
more specialty-focused and where knowledge and expertise in a specific area is
valued over the capital scale of the reinsurance provider. It is in those
situations where we can best utilize our intellectual capital to drive the
underwriting process. In the first quarter of 2000, we also began redirecting
our reinsurance business away from the property sub-segments, which expose us to
weather-related and other natural catastrophes, and decided to withdraw
altogether from the Latin American and Caribbean market. In addition, within the
treaty sub-segment, we are shifting our focus toward excess of loss treaties,
which we believe present more profitable opportunities. We anticipate that these
changes will allow us to have more significant participations and greater
influence over the terms and conditions of coverage. However, due to the shift
in our focus, we are expecting a reduction in reinsurance premiums.

         Facultative. Our Facultative Division specializes in individual
certificate and program facultative business. Its highly experienced
underwriters seek to offset the underwriting and pricing cycles in the
underlying insurance business by developing risk management solutions and
through superior risk selection. We develop this business through brokers and on
a direct basis where the client does not choose to use an intermediary.

         Fidelity and Surety. Our Fidelity and Surety Division operates as a
lead reinsurer in a niche market of the property casualty industry where its
highly specialized knowledge and expertise are essential to meet the needs of
fidelity and surety primary writers. Business is marketed principally through
brokers as well as directly to clients not served by intermediaries.



         The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums
written, by line, by our reinsurance operations:




         The following table sets forth the percentage of gross premiums
written, by property versus casualty business, by our reinsurance operations:




                          REGIONAL INSURANCE OPERATIONS

         Our regional subsidiaries provide commercial and personal property
casualty insurance products to customers primarily in 39 states. Key clients of
this segment are small-to-mid-sized businesses and governmental entities. The
regional subsidiaries are organized geographically, which provides them with the
flexibility to adapt to local market conditions, while enjoying the superior
administrative capabilities and financial strength of the W. R. Berkley group.
Our regional insurance operations are conducted through four geographic regions
based on markets served: Midwest, New England, South and Mid Atlantic.

       Our regional insurance subsidiaries primarily sell our insurance products
through a network of non-exclusive independent agents who are compensated on a
commission basis. Our regional companies underwrite all major commercial and
personal lines with an emphasis on commercial lines.

         The following table sets forth the direct premiums written by each
region:





         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by line, by our regional insurance operations:




         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by state, by our regional insurance operations:





                            International Operations

         In 1995, the Company and Northwestern Mutual Life International, Inc.
("NML"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company, entered into a joint venture to form Berkley International, LLC
("Berkley International"), a limited liability company. We agreed to contribute
up to $65 million to Berkley International in exchange for a 65% membership
interest and NML agreed to contribute up to $35 million to Berkley International
in exchange for a 35% membership interest.

         Applying the same approach that we take for our domestic businesses, we
believe that decentralized control is key to the success of our international
effort. For example, we hire local insurance executives who have specialized
knowledge of their customers, markets and products, and we link their
compensation to meeting performance objectives.

         Presently international operations are conducted primarily in Argentina
and the Philippines. In Argentina, we offer customers commercial and personal
property casualty insurance in addition to life insurance and workers'
compensation. In the Philippines, we provide savings and life products to
customers, including endowment policies to pre-fund education costs and
retirement income.

         The following table set forth the percentages of direct premiums for
our international operations:



                           Results by Industry Segment

         Summary financial information about our operating segments is presented
on a GAAP basis in the following table (all amounts include realized capital
gains and losses):





         The table below represents summary underwriting ratios, on a statutory
accounting basis for our insurance companies and the insurance industry. The
combined ratio represents a measure of underwriting profitability, excluding
investment income. A number in excess of 100 indicates an underwriting loss; a
number below 100 indicates an underwriting profit:




(1)  Based on the Company's consolidated net premiums written to statutory
     surplus.

(2)  Estimated by A.M. Best.

(3)  Source: A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, for stock companies.

(4)  Source: A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, for total industry.



Investments

         Investment results before income tax effects were as follows:



(1)  The change in unrealized investment gains (losses) represents the
     difference between fair value and cost of investments at the beginning and
     end of the calendar year, including investments carried at cost.

         The percentages of the fixed maturity portfolio categorized by
contractual maturity, based on fair value, on the dates indicated, are set forth
below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain
issuers have the right to call or prepay obligations.




Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves

         In the property casualty insurance industry, it is not unusual for
significant periods of time to elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss,
the report of the loss to the insurer and the insurer's payment of that loss. To
recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, insurers establish reserves, which is a
balance sheet account representing estimates of future amounts needed to pay
claims and related expenses with respect to insured events which have occurred.
Our loss reserves reflect current estimates of the ultimate cost of closing
outstanding claims. Other than our excess workers' compensation business and the
workers' compensation portion of our reinsurance business, as discussed below,
we do not discount our reserves for financial reporting purposes.

         In general, when a claim is reported, claims personnel establish a
"case reserve" for the estimated amount of the ultimate payment. The estimate
represents an informed judgment based on general reserving practices and
reflects the experience and knowledge of the claims personnel regarding the
nature and value of the specific type of claim. Reserves are also established on
an aggregate basis which provide for losses incurred but not yet reported to the
insurer, potential inadequacy of case reserves, the estimated expenses of
settling claims, including legal and other fees and general expenses of
administering the claims adjustment process ("LAE"), and a provision for
potentially uncollectible reinsurance. Each insurance subsidiary's net retention
for each line of insurance is taken into consideration in the computation of
estimated ultimate losses.

         In examining reserve adequacy, several factors are considered,
including historical data, legal developments, changes in social attitudes and
economic conditions, including the



effects of inflation. The actuarial process relies on the basic assumption that
past experience, adjusted judgmentally for the effects of current developments
and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events.
Reserve amounts are necessarily based on management's informed estimates and
judgments using data currently available. As additional experience and other
data become available and are reviewed, these estimates and judgments are
revised. This may result in increases or decreases to reserves for insured
events of prior years. The reserving process implicitly recognizes the impact of
inflation and other factors affecting loss costs by taking into account changes
in historical claim patterns and perceived trends. There is no precise method to
evaluate the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, because
the ultimate cost of closing claims is influenced by numerous factors.

         While the methods for establishing the reserves are well tested over
time, some of the major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns
are subject to fluctuation. In particular, high levels of jury verdicts against
insurers, as well as judicial decisions which "re-formulate" policies to expand
coverage to include previously unforeseen theories of liability, e.g., those
regarding pollution and other environmental exposures, have produced
unanticipated claims and increased the difficulty of estimating the loss and
loss adjustment expense reserves.

         We discount our liabilities for excess workers' compensation business
and the workers' compensation portion of our reinsurance business because of the
long period of time over which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to
appropriately match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment
securities supporting the liabilities. The expected losses and loss expense
payout pattern subject to discounting was derived from the Company's loss payout
experience and is supplemented with data compiled from insurance companies
writing similar business. The liabilities for losses and loss expenses have been
discounted using "risk-free" discount rates determined by reference to the U.S.
Treasury yield curve. The discount rates range from 5.16% to 6.49% with a
weighted average rate of 5.85%. The aggregate net discount, after reflecting the
effects of ceded reinsurance, is $223,000,000, $196,000,000 and $187,000,000, at
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 respectively.

         To date, known asbestos and environmental claims at our insurance
company subsidiaries have not had a material impact on our operations.
Environmental claims have not materially impacted us because these subsidiaries
generally did not insure the larger industrial companies which are subject to
significant environmental exposures.

         Our net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to
asbestos and environmental claims were $29,422,000 and $30,944,000 at December
31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The Company's gross reserves for losses and
loss adjustment expenses relating to asbestos and environmental claims were
$57,167,000 and $65,966,000 at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Net
incurred losses and loss expenses for reported asbestos and environmental claims
were approximately $1,602,000, $1,371,000 and $2,227,000 in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Net paid losses and loss expenses for reported asbestos and
environmental claims were approximately $3,123,000, $3,819,000 and $2,614,000 in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The estimation of these liabilities is
subject to significantly greater than normal variation and uncertainty because
it is difficult to make a reasonable actuarial estimate of these liabilities due
to the absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for these exposures
and the potential affect of significant unresolved legal matters, including
coverage issues as well as the cost of litigating the legal issues.
Additionally, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of
such damages to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain.

         The following table sets forth the components of our gross loss
reserves and net provision for losses and loss expense (amounts in thousands):





         The table below provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending
property casualty reserves, on a gross of reinsurance basis (amounts in
thousands)(1):



       A reconciliation, as of December 31, 2000, between the reserves reported
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements which have been prepared
in accordance with GAAP and those reported on a SAP basis is as follows (amounts
in thousands):




(1)      Claims occurring during the current year is net of discount of
         $39,990,000, $22,923,754 and $20,354,000 for the years ended December
         31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(2)      For statutory purposes, we use a discount rate of 4.5% as permitted by
         the Department of Insurance of the State of Delaware. For GAAP
         purposes, we use a discount rate based on the U. S. Treasury yield
         curve weighted for the expected payout period, as described above.

       The following table presents the development of net reserves for 1990
through 2000. The top line of the table shows the estimated reserves for unpaid
losses and loss expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
indicated years. This represents the estimated amount of losses and loss
expenses for claims arising in all prior years that are unpaid at the balance
sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but not yet reported to us.
The upper portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously
recorded reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The
estimate changes as more information becomes known about the frequency and
severity of claims for individual years.

         The "cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years. For example, the 1990 reserves
have developed a $141 million redundancy over ten years. That amount has been
reflected in income over the ten years. The impact on the results of operations
of the past three years of changes in reserve estimates is shown in the
reconciliation tables above. It should be noted that the table presents a "run
off" of balance sheet reserves, rather than accident or policy year loss
development. Therefore, each amount in the table includes the effects of changes
in reserves for all prior years. For example, assume a claim that occurred in
1990 is reserved for $2,000 as of December 31, 1990. Assuming this claim was
settled for $2,300 in 2000, the $300 deficiency would appear as a deficiency in
each year from 1990 through 1999.







Reinsurance

         We follow the customary industry practice of reinsuring a portion of
our exposures and paying to reinsurers a part of the premiums received on the
policies that we write. Reinsurance is purchased principally to reduce net
liability on individual risks and to protect against catastrophic losses.
Although reinsurance does not legally discharge an insurer from its primary
liability for the full amount of the policies, it does make the assuming
reinsurer liable to the insurer to the extent of the reinsurance coverage. We
monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place our
coverages only with substantial, financially sound carriers. As a result,
generally the reinsurers who reinsure our casualty insurance must have an A.M.
Best rating of "A (Excellent)" or better with $250 million in policyholder
surplus and the reinsurers who cover our property insurance must have an A.M.
Best rating of "A-(Excellent)" or better with $150 million in policyholder
surplus.

Regulation

         Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to varying degrees of regulation
and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. They are subject
to statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to
state insurance commissioners. This regulation relates to such matters as the
standards of solvency which must be met and maintained; the licensing of
insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments;
deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy
forms and premium rates; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance
companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial
condition of insurers or for other purposes; establishment and maintenance of
reserves for unearned premiums and losses; and requirements regarding numerous
other matters. Our property casualty subsidiaries, other than E&S and
reinsurance subsidiaries, must file all rates for personal and commercial
insurance with the insurance department of each state in which they operate. Our
E&S and reinsurance subsidiaries generally operate free of rate and form
regulation.

         In addition to regulatory supervision of our insurance subsidiaries, we
are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding company systems.
Typically, such statutes require that we periodically file information with the
state insurance commissioner, including information concerning our capital
structure, ownership, financial condition and general business operations. Under
the terms of applicable state statutes, any person or entity desiring to
purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10%) of our outstanding
voting securities would be required to obtain regulatory approval of the
purchase. Under Florida law, which is applicable to us due to our ownership of
Carolina Casualty Insurance Company, a Florida domiciled insurer, the
acquisition of more than 5% of our capital stock must receive regulatory
approval. Further, state insurance statutes typically place limitations on the
amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance companies in
order to protect their solvency. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources."

         Various state and federal organizations, including Congressional
committees and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"),
have been conducting reviews into various aspects of the insurance business. The
NAIC recently completed a process intended to codify statutory accounting
practices for certain insurance enterprises effective January 1, 2001. The
accounting codification will not have a material impact on our insurance
subsidiaries' results of operations or statutory surplus. The NAIC is also
considering model laws on commercial lines deregulation. A number of states have
adopted and others are considering adopting forms of commercial lines
deregulation laws which, depending upon factors such as the relatively high
amount of premium or revenue of an insured, would permit an insurer to provide
insurance without being subject to rate and/or form filing requirements. No
assurance can be given that future legislative or regulatory changes resulting
from such activity will not adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries.

         The NAIC utilizes a Risk Based Capital (RBC) formula which is designed
to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the
risks inherent in its business. The RBC formula develops a risk adjusted target
level of adjusted statutory capital by applying certain factors to various
asset, premium and reserve items. The RBC Model Law provides for four
incremental levels of regulatory attention for insurers whose surplus is below
the calculated RBC target. These levels of attention range in severity from
requiring the insurer to submit a plan for corrective action to actually placing
the insurer under regulatory control. The RBC of each of our domestic insurance
subsidiaries was above the authorized control level RBC as of December 31, 2000.

         The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or Financial Services Modernization Act of
1999 (the "Act"), was enacted in 1999 and significantly affects the financial
services industry, including



insurance companies, banks and securities firms. The Act modifies federal law to
permit the creation of financial holding companies ("FHCs"), which, as regulated
by the Act, can maintain cross-holdings in insurance companies, banks and
securities firms to an extent not previously allowed. The Act also permits or
facilitates certain types of combinations or affiliations for FHCs. The Act
establishes a functional regulatory scheme under which state insurance
departments will maintain primary regulation over insurance activities, subject
to provisions for certain federal preemptions.

         Important provisions of the Act involve requirements for adoption of
(i) multi-state agents' licensing reforms and uniformity requirements and (ii)
privacy protections, giving the states the ability to enact these laws in the
first instance or be preempted. The NAIC adopted a model regulation on privacy,
and a model law on agents' licensing, which have been enacted or are currently
being considered by various state legislatures and insurance departments. It is
not anticipated that the insurance regulatory aspects of the Act will have a
material effect on our operations.

         Our insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessment by state
guaranty funds when an insurer in that jurisdiction has been judicially declared
insolvent and insufficient funds are available from the liquidated company to
pay policyholders and claimants. The protection afforded under a state's
guaranty fund to policyholders of the insolvent insurer varies from state to
state. Generally, all licensed property casualty insurers are considered to be
members of the fund, and assessments are based upon their pro rata share of
direct written premiums. The NAIC Model Post-Assessment Guaranty Fund Act, which
many states have adopted, limits assessments to an insurer to 2% of its subject
premium and permits recoupment of assessments through rate setting. Likewise,
several states (or underwriting organizations of which our insurance
subsidiaries are required to be members) have limited assessment authority with
regard to deficits in certain lines of business. To date, assessments have not
had a material adverse impact on operations.

         We receive funds from our insurance subsidiaries in the form of
dividends and fees for certain management services. Annual dividends in excess
of maximum amounts prescribed by state statutes may not be paid without the
approval of the insurance commissioner of the state in which an insurance
subsidiary is domiciled.

Competition

         The property casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses are
competitive, with over 2,000 insurance companies transacting business in the
United States. We compete directly with a large number of these companies. Our
strategy in this highly fragmented industry is to seek specialized areas or
geographic regions where our insurance subsidiaries can gain a competitive
advantage by responding quickly to changing market conditions. Each of our
subsidiaries establishes its own pricing practices. Such practices are based
upon a Company-wide philosophy to price products with the general intent of
making an underwriting profit. Competition in the industry generally changes
with profitability.

         Competition for specialty and alternative markets business comes from
other specialty insurers, regional carriers, large national multi-line companies
and reinsurers. Under certain market conditions, standard carriers also compete
for E&S business. With the implementation of commercial lines deregulation (see
"Regulation"), competition for E&S business might increase significantly.

         Competition for the reinsurance business comes from domestic and
foreign reinsurers, which place their business either on a direct basis or
through the broker market.

         The regional property casualty subsidiaries compete with mutual and
other regional stock companies as well as national carriers. Direct writers of
property casualty insurance compete with the regional subsidiaries by writing
insurance through their salaried employees, generally at a lower cost than
through independent agents such as those used by the Company. Also, certain
personal lines have become more competitive due to Internet-based competition.

         The international operations compete with native insurance operations
both large and small, which may be related to government entities, as well as
with branch or local subsidiaries of multinational companies.



Employees

         As of March 5, 2001, we employed 4,426 persons. Of this number, our
subsidiaries employed 4,378 persons, of whom 2,256 were executive and
administrative personnel and 2,122 were clerical personnel. We employed the
remaining 48 persons at the parent company and in investment operations, of whom
36 were executive and administrative personnel and 12 were clerical personnel.

Other Information about the Company's business

         We maintain an ongoing interest in acquiring additional companies and
developing new insurance entities, products and packages as opportunities arise.
In addition, the insurance subsidiaries develop new coverages or lines of
business to meet the needs of insureds.

         Seasonal weather variations affect the severity and frequency of losses
sustained by the insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Although the effect on
our business of such natural catastrophes as tornadoes, hurricanes, hailstorms
and earthquakes is mitigated by reinsurance, they nevertheless can have a
significant impact on the results of any one or more reporting periods.

         We have no customer which accounts for 10 percent or more of our
consolidated revenues.

         Compliance by W. R. Berkley and its subsidiaries with federal, state
and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge
of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to protection of the
environment has not had a material effect upon our capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.

                 CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

      Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be
the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we
currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any
of the events or circumstances described as risks below actually occurs, our
business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and
adversely affected.

OUR RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE AS A RESULT OF MANY FACTORS, INCLUDING CYCLICAL
CHANGES IN THE INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE INDUSTRY.

      The results of companies in the property casualty insurance industry
historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties.
The industry's profitability can be affected significantly by:

- -        rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the
         time they price their products;

- -        volatile and unpredictable developments (including weather-related and
         other natural catastrophes);

- -        changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal
         environments as different types of claims arise and judicial
         interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability develop;

- -        fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other
         changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested
         capital and may impact the ultimate payout of loss amounts; and

- -        the long-tail and volatile nature of the reinsurance business, which
         may impact our operating results and limit opportunities for adequate
         returns.

      The demand for property casualty insurance can also vary significantly,
rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as such
activity decreases. The property casualty insurance industry historically has a
cyclical nature. Recently, the property casualty insurance industry and
especially the commercial lines business have been very competitive. These
fluctuations in demand and competition could produce underwriting results that
would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial
condition.

WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COMPETITIVE PRESSURES IN OUR BUSINESSES.

      We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of
business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S.
insurers and reinsurers, other regional companies, as well as mutual companies,
specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial
services companies. Some of our competitors,



particularly in the reinsurance business, have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do.

      A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry
developments could further increase competition in our industry. These
developments include:

- -        the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which could result
         in increased competition from new entrants to our markets;

- -        the implementation of commercial lines deregulation in several states,
         which could increase competition from standard carriers for our excess
         and surplus lines of insurance business;

- -        programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance
         in catastrophe prone areas or other alternative markets types of
         coverage; and

- -        changing practices caused by the Internet, which have led to greater
         competition in the insurance business.

      New competition from these developments could cause the supply and/or
demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

      In addition to competition in the operation of our businesses, we face
competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified
employees. We can provide no assurance that we will maintain our current
competitive position in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able
to expand our operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our businesses
could be materially adversely affected.

OUR ACTUAL CLAIMS LOSSES MAY EXCEED OUR RESERVES FOR CLAIMS.

      We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees as well as a
portion of our general expenses, for reported and unreported claims incurred as
of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact
calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we
expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These
estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our
assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future
trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other
factors. In some cases, long-tail lines of business such as excess workers'
compensation and the workers' compensation portion of our reinsurance business
are reserved on a discounted basis. The variables described above are affected
by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling
procedures, inflation, judicial and litigation trends and legislative changes.
The risk of the occurrence of such events is especially present in our specialty
lines and reinsurance businesses. Many of these items are not directly
quantifiable in advance. In some areas of our business, the level of reserves we
establish is dependent in part upon the actions of third parties that are beyond
our control. In our reinsurance and excess workers' compensation businesses, we
may not establish sufficient reserves if third parties do not give us advance
notice or provide us with appropriate information regarding certain matters.
Additionally, there may be a significant delay between the occurrence of the
insured event and the time it is reported to us.

      The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain
types of liabilities, where the various considerations affecting these types of
claims are subject to change and long periods of time may elapse before a
definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually
refined in an ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are
reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of
the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting reserves is
inherently uncertain, we can provide no assurance that our current reserves will
prove adequate in light of subsequent events.

WE ANTICIPATE INCREASING OUR LEVEL OF RETENTION IN OUR BUSINESS.

     We anticipate increasing our retention levels in 2001 for our operations
generally due to changes in market conditions and the pricing environment. We
expect to purchase less reinsurance (the process by which we transfer, or cede,
part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company), thereby retaining
more risk. As a result, our earnings could be more volatile, and increased
severities could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations
and financial condition. A significant change in our retention levels could also
cause our historical financial results, including compound annual growth rates,
to be inaccurate indicators of our future performance on a segment or
consolidated basis.




AS A PROPERTY CASUALTY INSURER, WE FACE LOSSES FROM CATASTROPHES.

    Property casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes
that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition. Catastrophe losses have had a significant impact on our
results. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes,
windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and
fires. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable.
The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount
of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the
event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however,
hurricanes and earthquakes may produce significant damage in large, heavily
populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property
casualty lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted
from severe storms. Seasonal weather variations may affect the severity and
frequency of our losses. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a
catastrophe until it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic
event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect upon
our results of operations and financial condition.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION.

    We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most
insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders
rather than stockholders and other investors. This system of regulation,
generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do
business, relates to, among other things:

[ ] standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements;

[ ] restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;

[ ] requiring certain methods of accounting;

[ ] requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes; and

[ ] potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the
    settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired,
    insolvent or failed insurance companies.

    State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of
insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating
to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and
other matters. Recently adopted federal financial services modernization
legislation is expected to lead to additional federal regulation of the
insurance industry in the coming years. Also, foreign governments regulate our
international operations.

    We can provide no assurance that we have or can maintain all required
licenses and approvals or that our business fully complies with the wide variety
of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority's interpretation of
the laws and regulations. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively
broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not
have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable
regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or
temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or
monetarily penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect
on our business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance
industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations
themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

WE ARE RATED BY A.M. BEST AND STANDARD & POOR'S, AND A DECLINE IN THESE RATINGS
COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS.

    Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the
competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance company subsidiaries
are rated by A.M. Best and certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are
rated for their claims-paying ability by Standard & Poor's Corporation, or
Standard & Poor's. A.M. Best and Standard & Poor's ratings reflect their
opinions of an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance,
strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, are not
evaluations directed to investors and are not recommendations to buy, sell or
hold our securities. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and
Standard & Poor's and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be
assured. The Standard & Poor's 2001 outlook for the U.S. property casualty
insurance industry and the Standard & Poor's mid-year 2000 outlook for the U.S.
reinsurance industry were negative. Since March 2000, Standard & Poor's has
given us a negative rating outlook. While Standard & Poor's recently affirmed
our rating of "A+", as long as we remain on negative rating outlook, a downgrade
in our rating is possible. If our ratings



are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor's, our
results of operations could be adversely affected.

A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR ASSETS IS INVESTED IN FIXED INCOME SECURITIES AND IS
SUBJECT TO MARKET FLUCTUATIONS.

    Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed income securities.
The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these
assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. With
respect to our investments in fixed income securities, the fair market value of
these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship
with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us
from future investments in fixed income securities will generally increase or
decrease with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or
cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk (such as mortgage-backed
and other asset-backed securities) may differ from those anticipated at the time
of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Because substantially
all of our fixed income securities are classified as available for sale, changes
in the market value of our securities are reflected in our balance sheet.
Similar treatment is not available for liabilities. Therefore, interest rate
fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.

WE INVEST SOME OF OUR ASSETS IN MERGER ARBITRAGE, WHICH IS SUBJECT TO CERTAIN
RISKS.

    We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in merger arbitrage. As of
December 31, 2000, our investment in merger arbitrage securities represented
approximately 14% of our total investment portfolio. Merger arbitrage is the
business of investing in the securities of publicly held companies which are the
targets in announced tender offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from
other types of investments in its focus on transactions and events believed
likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively short time period
(usually four months or less). While our merger arbitrage positions are
generally hedged against market declines, these equity investments are exposed
primarily to the risk associated with the completion of announced deals, which
are subject to regulatory as well as political and other risks.

OUR PREMIUM WRITINGS AND PROFITABILITY ARE AFFECTED BY THE AVAILABILITY OF
REINSURANCE.

    We purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our
insurance company subsidiaries, especially catastrophe risks. We also purchase
reinsurance on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure (a retrocession).
Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the
reinsurance protection we purchase, which may affect the level of our business
and profitability. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual
renewal. We can provide no assurance that we can maintain our current
reinsurance facilities or that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in
adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring
facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures
would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we
would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially
catastrophe exposed risks. Either of these potential developments could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

WE DO NOT YET KNOW ALL THE EFFECTS OF THE RECENT RESTRUCTURING OF CERTAIN OF OUR
SUBSIDIARIES.

    In 2000, we implemented a restructuring plan, pursuant to which we refocused
our domestic reinsurance operations. While this restructuring is substantially
complete, all of its operating effects are not yet known, and any difficulties
caused by such restructuring could adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition.

WE ARE AN INSURANCE HOLDING COMPANY AND, THEREFORE, MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE
DIVIDENDS IN NEEDED AMOUNTS.

    Our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance
company subsidiaries. We have to rely on dividends from our insurance company
subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on
outstanding debt obligations and for paying dividends to stockholders and
corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by our insurance company
subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the
surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as the regulatory
restrictions. As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends from these
subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations or pay
dividends.



WE MAY NOT FIND SUITABLE ACQUISITION CANDIDATES AND EVEN IF WE DO, WE MAY NOT
SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ANY SUCH ACQUIRED COMPANIES.

    As part of our present strategy, we continue to evaluate possible
acquisition transactions on an ongoing basis, and at any given time, we may be
engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions. We can provide no
assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition transactions,
that such transactions will be financed and completed on acceptable terms or
that our future acquisitions will be successful. The process of integrating any
companies we do acquire may have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

IF WE DO NOT INVEST SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS IN OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND
TECHNOLOGY, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED.

    Integrated management information and processing systems are vital to our
ability to monitor costs, collect receivables and achieve operating
efficiencies. As we continue our growth, the need for sophisticated information
systems and technology will increase significantly. The cost of implementing
such systems has been, and is expected to continue to be, substantial. The
failure of our information or processing systems, or our failure to upgrade
systems as necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

WE CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT OUR REINSURERS WILL PAY IN A TIMELY FASHION, IF AT ALL.

    We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we have
assumed (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the
premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the
reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the
reinsurer, it does not relieve us (the reinsured) of our liability to our
policyholders or, in cases where we are a reinsurer, to our reinsureds.
Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We can provide
no assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to
us or that they will pay such recoverables on a timely basis.

OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO RISKS.

    Certain assets held by our foreign subsidiaries are subject to foreign
currency risk. Our principal area of exposure relates to fluctuations in
exchange rates between each of the Argentinean and Philippine peso and the U.S.
dollar. Consequently, a change in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and
either the Argentinean or Philippine peso could have an adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition. We are additionally subject to
political and economic risks in these countries.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

W. R. Berkley and its subsidiaries own or lease office buildings or office space
suitable to conduct their operations. The owned property is as follows:



    In addition, W. R. Berkley and its subsidiaries lease office facilities in
various other cities under leases with varying terms and expiration dates.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    Claims under insurance policies written by our insurance subsidiaries are
investigated and settled either by claims adjusters employed by them, by their
independent agents or by independent adjusters. Generally, the insurance
subsidiary employs a staff of claims adjusters at its home office and at some
regional offices. Some independent agents may have the authority to settle small
claims. Independent claims adjusting firms are used to assist in handling
various claims in areas where insurance volume does not warrant the maintenance
of a



staff adjuster. If a claim or loss cannot be settled and results in litigation,
the subsidiary generally retains outside counsel.

    At present, neither W. R. Berkley nor any of its subsidiaries is engaged in
any litigation known to us which is expected to have a material adverse effect
upon our business. As is common with property casualty insurance companies, our
subsidiaries are regularly engaged in the defense of claims arising out of the
conduct of the insurance business.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 2000 to a vote of
holders of the Company's Common Stock.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

    Our Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
"BKLY". The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the
indicated periods, all as reported on such market.




    The closing price of the Common Stock on March 7, 2001, as reported on the
Nasdaq National Market, was $47.00 per share. The approximate number of record
holders of the Common Stock on March 7, 2001 was 671.

    On November 7, 2000 we made a restricted share grant of 10,000 shares of
common stock to an employee. The grant was made in consideration of past and
future services pursuant to a restricted shares agreement. The shares were not
registered under the Securities Act of 1933 in reliance on the exemption
provided in Section 4 (2) thereof for transactions not involving a public
offering.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000





(1) Including trading account receivable from brokers and clearing organizations
    and trading account securities sold but not yet purchased.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

    Reference is made to the information under the caption "Management's
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
    contained on pages 22 through 29 of the registrant's 2000 Annual Report to
    Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    Reference is made to the information under "Market Risk" under the caption
    "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations" contained on pages 27 and 28 of the registrant's 2000 Annual
    Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The consolidated financial statements of the registrant are contained on
    pages 30 through 46 of registrant's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders and
    are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.



                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


    The following information is provided as to the directors and executive
officers of the Company as of March 5, 2001:




    As permitted by Delaware law, the Board of Directors of the Company is
divided into three classes, the classes being divided as equally as possible and
each class having a term of three years. Directors generally serve until their
respective successors are elected at the annual meeting of stockholders which
ends their term. None of the Company's directors has any family relationship
with any other director or executive officer, except William R. Berkley, Jr. is
the son of William R. Berkley. Each year the term of office of one class
expires. In May 2000, the term of a class consisting of three directors expired.
William R. Berkley, George G. Daly and Robert R. Hodes were elected as directors
to hold office for a term of three years until the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders in 2003 and until their successors are duly elected and qualify. As
a result of the resignation of John D. Vollaro as a director effective March 1,
2000, the Board presently has one vacancy in the class of directors with a term
expiring in 2001.

    William R. Berkley has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company since its formation in 1967. He also currently serves as
President and Chief Operating Officer, a position which he has held since March
1, 2000 and has held at various times from 1967 to 1995. He also serves as
Chairman of the Board or director of a number of public and private companies.
These include Associated Community Bancorp, Inc., a bank holding company that
owns all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of The Greenwich Bank &
Trust Company, a Connecticut chartered bank; Westport National Bank, a national
bank; Pioneer Companies, Inc., a chemical manufacturing and marketing company;
Strategic Distribution, Inc., an industrial products distribution and services
company; and Interlaken Capital, Inc., a private investment firm with interests
in various businesses. His current term as a director expires in 2003.

    Eugene G. Ballard has been Senior Vice President - Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer of the Company since June 1, 1999. Before joining the Company, Mr.
Ballard was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GRE
Insurance Group, New York, New York since 1995.

    Robert P. Cole has been Senior Vice President since January 1998. Prior
thereto, he was Vice President since October 1996. Before joining the Company,
Mr. Cole was, since 1992, a senior Officer of Christania General Insurance Corp.
of New York, which was purchased by Folksamerica Reinsurance Company in 1996,
and prior to that was associated with reinsurers for twenty years.

    E. LeRoy Heer (deceased on March 18, 2001) had been Senior Vice President -
Chief Corporate Actuary since January 1991. Prior thereto, he had been Vice
President - Corporate Actuary since May 1978.



    H. Raymond Lankford has been Senior Vice President - Alternative Markets
Operations since May 1996. Prior thereto, he was President of All American
Agency Facilities, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, from October 1991, having
joined All American in 1990. He has been in the insurance business in various
capacities for more than 30 years.

    Ira S. Lederman has been Senior Vice President since January 1997 and
General Counsel-Insurance Operations since August 2000. Additionally, he has
been General Counsel of Berkley International, LLC since January 1998. He has
been Assistant Secretary since May 1986. Previously, he was Assistant General
Counsel from July 1989 until August 2000 and Vice President from May 1986 until
January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Insurance Counsel of the Company since May
1986 and Associate Counsel from April 1983.

    James G. Shiel has been Senior Vice President - Investments of the Company
since January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Investments of the
Company since January 1992. Since February 1994, he has been President of
Berkley Dean & Company, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, which he joined in
1987.

    Edward A. Thomas has been Senior Vice President - Specialty Operations of
the Company since April 1991. Prior thereto, he was President of Signet
Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of the Company, for more than five years.

    William R. Berkley, Jr. has been a Vice President of the Company since May
2000, and additionally serves as President of Berkley International, LLC since
January 2001. He served previously as Executive Vice President of Berkley
International, LLC from March 2000. Mr. Berkley joined the Company in September
1997. From July 1995 to August 1997, Mr. Berkley served in the Corporate Finance
Department of Merrill Lynch Investment Company. Mr. Berkley is also a director
of Associated Community Bancorp, Inc., Middlesex Bank and Trust Company, Master
Protection Holdings, Inc. and Interlaken Capital, Inc.

    Clement P. Patafio has been Vice President - Corporate Controller since
January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Assistant Vice President - Corporate
Controller since July 1994 and Assistant Controller since May 1993. Before
joining the Company, Mr. Patafio was with KPMG LLP from 1986 to 1993.

    George G. Daly has been a director of the Company since 1998. Dr. Daly is
Dean of Stern School of Business, and Dean Richard R. West Professor of
Business, New York University for more than the past five years. In addition to
his academic career, Dr. Daly served as Chief Economist at the U.S. Office of
Energy Research and Development in 1974. Mr. Daly's term as a director expires
in 2003.

    Robert B. Hodes has been a director of the Company since 1970. Mr. Hodes is
Counsel to the New York law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher, where prior
thereto he had been a partner for more than five years. He is also a director of
Globalstar Telecommunications, Limited; K&F Industries, Inc.; Loral Space &
Communications, Ltd.; Mueller Industries, Inc.; Leveraged Capital Holdings, N.V.
and R.V.I. Guaranty, Ltd. Mr. Hodes' current term as a director expires in 2003.

    Henry Kaufman has been a director of the Company since 1994. Dr. Kaufman has
been President of Henry Kaufman & Company, Inc., an investment, economic and
financial consulting company since its establishment in 1988. Dr. Kaufman serves
as Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Overseers, Stern School of Business of New
York University; Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Institute of International
Education; Member of the Board of Directors, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation; Member of the Board of Directors, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.;
Member of the Board of Directors, The Statute of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation, Inc.; Member of the Board of Trustees, New York University; Member
of the Board of Trustees, The Animal Medical Center; Treasurer (and former
trustee), The Economic Club of New York; Member of the International Advisory
Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Member of the Board of
Trustees, Whitney Museum of American Art; Member of the Advisory Committee to
the Investment Committee, International Monetary Fund Staff Retirement Plan; and
Member of the Board of Governors, Tel-Aviv University. Dr. Kaufman's current
term as a director expires in 2001.

    Richard G. Merrill has been a director of the Company since 1994. Mr.
Merrill was Executive Vice President of Prudential Insurance Company of America
from August 1987 to March 1991 when he retired. Prior thereto, Mr. Merrill
served as Chairman and President of Prudential Asset Management Company since
1985. Mr. Merrill is a director of Sysco Corporation. Mr. Merrill's current term
as a director expires in 2002.



    Jack H. Nusbaum has been a director of the Company since 1967. Mr. Nusbaum
is the Chairman of the New York law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher where he
has been a partner for more than the last five years. He is a director of
Associated Community Bankcorp, Inc., Neuberger Berman Inc., Pioneer Companies,
Inc., Prime Hospitality Corp., Strategic Distribution, Inc. and The Topps
Company, Inc. Mr. Nusbaum's current term as a director expires in 2002.

    Mark L. Shapiro has been a director of the Company since 1974. Since
September 1998, Mr. Shapiro has been a private investor. From July 1997 through
August 1998, Mr. Shapiro was a Senior Consultant to the Export-Import Bank of
the United States. Previously, he was a Managing Director in the investment
banking firm of Schroder & Co. Inc. for more than the past five years. Mr.
Shapiro's current term as a director expires in 2002.

    Martin Stone has been a director of the Company since 1990. Mr. Stone has
been the controlling investor in Sports Tech, LLC, an operator of four sports
performance training centers for elite athletes, since the second quarter of
2000. Previously, Mr. Stone was Chairman of Professional Sports, Inc. (the
Tucson Sidewinders AAA baseball team) and Chairman of Adirondack Corporation,
each for more than the past five years. Mr. Stone is a director of Canyon Ranch,
Inc. and a member of the Advisory Board of Yosemite National Park. Mr. Stone's
current term as a director expires in 2001.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 2000, and which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    (a) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners

    Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 2000, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

    (b) Security ownership of management

    Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 2000, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

    (c) Changes in control

    Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 2000, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 2000, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Index to Financial Statements

    The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, and the Company's financial statements, together with the report
thereon of KPMG LLP, appearing on pages 22 through 46 of the Company's 2000
Annual Report to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of the aforementioned information, the
2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is not deemed to be filed as part of this
report. The schedules to the financial statements listed below should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements in such 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders. Financial statement schedules not included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K have been omitted because



they are not applicable or required information is shown in the financial
statements or notes thereto.



(b) Reports on Form 8-K

    During the quarter ended December 31, 2000, the registrant filed the
    following Reports on Form 8-K:

    Report dated October 30, 2000 with respect to a press release relating to
    earnings of the Company for the third quarter of 2000 (under Item 5 of Form
    8-K).

(c) Exhibits

    The exhibits filed as part of this report are listed on pages 32 and 33
    hereof.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                              W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION



                              By /s/  William R. Berkley
                                 ---------------------------------------------
                                 William R. Berkley, Chairman of the Board and
                                    President


March 22, 2001



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






ITEM 14. (c) EXHIBITS



















              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULES AND CONSENT


Board of Directors and Stockholders
W. R. Berkley Corporation


The audits referred to in our report dated February 23, 2001, except for Note 20
which is as of March 6, 2001 incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K,
included the related financial statement schedules as of December 31, 2000, and
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2000. These
financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statement schedules based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial
statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for insurance-related assessments in 1999.

We consent to the use of our reports incorporated by reference in the
Registration Statements, (No. 33-95552) and (No. 333-00459) on Form S-3 and (No.
33-7488), (No. 33-88640), (No. 333-33935) and (No. 33-55726) on Form S-8 of W.
R. Berkley Corporation.

                                                        KPMG LLP



New York, New York
March 22, 2001



                                                                     Schedule II


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                         Balance Sheets (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)





See note to condensed financial statements.



                                            Schedule II, Continued

                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued
                    Statements of Operations (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)





See note to condensed financial statements.



                                              Schedule II, Continued

                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued
                    Statement of Cash Flows (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)





See note to condensed financial statements.




                                                          Schedule II, Continued


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation

            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued

                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

             Note to Condensed Financial Statements (Parent Company)


    The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in
conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere herein. Reclassifications have been made in the 1999 and 1998
financial statements as originally reported to conform them to the presentation
of the 2000 financial statements.

    The Company files a consolidated federal tax return with the results of its
domestic insurance subsidiaries included on a statutory basis. Under present
Company policy, Federal income taxes payable by (or refundable to) subsidiary
companies on a separate-return basis are paid to (or refunded by) W. R. Berkley
Corporation, and the Company pays the tax due on a consolidated return basis.



                                                                    Schedule III

                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                       Supplementary Insurance Information
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                             (Amounts in thousands)









                                                                     Schedule IV


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                                   Reinsurance
                  Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                             (Amounts in thousands)






                                                                     Schedule VI


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
   Supplementary Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                             (Amounts in thousands)






