
10-K
FORM 10-K



                                    FORM 10-K

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

(Mark One)
          [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF
                THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

          [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from            to
Commission file number 0-7849

                           W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                            22-1867895
  (State or other jurisdiction                               (I.R.S. employer
of incorporation or organization)                         identification number)


165 Mason Street, P.O. Box 2518, Greenwich, CT                  06836-2518
   (Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (203) 629-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                     Common stock, par value $.20 per share
    Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $.10 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding twelve months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

               Yes  /X/                       No / /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /  /

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
based on the closing price of such stock as of March 2, 1998: $1,143,221,275.

Number of shares of common stock, $.20 par value, outstanding as of March 2,
1998: 29,611,359

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 are incorporated herein by reference in Part II, and portions
of the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 1997, are
incorporated herein by reference in Part III.


                            W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                December 31, 1997


         PART I                                                             Page

ITEM     1.       BUSINESS                                                     3

ITEM     2.       PROPERTIES                                                  21

ITEM     3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS                                           21

ITEM     4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         21


         PART II

ITEM     5.       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
                  AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                             22

ITEM     6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR THE FIVE YEARS
                  ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997                                     23

ITEM     7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS               24

ITEM     8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                 24


         PART III

ITEM    10.       DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT          24

ITEM    11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION                                      26

ITEM    12.       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
                  OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT                                       26

ITEM    13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS              27


         PART IV

ITEM     14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K                                     28



PART I
ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General Description of the Company's Business

         W. R. Berkley Corporation (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, is
an insurance holding company, which through its subsidiaries, presently operates
in all segments of the property casualty insurance business: regional property
casualty insurance; reinsurance (conducted through Signet Star Holdings, Inc.);
specialty lines of insurance (including excess and surplus lines and commercial
transportation); alternative markets (including the management of alternative
insurance market mechanisms); and international (conducted through Berkley
International, LLC). The Company was founded on the concept that a group of
autonomous regional and specialty insurance entities could compete effectively
in selected markets within a very large industry. Decentralized control allows
each subsidiary to respond to local or specialty market conditions while
capitalizing on the effectiveness of centralized investment and reinsurance
management, and actuarial, financial and legal staff support.

         The Company's regional insurance operations are conducted primarily in
the Midwestern, Southern and Northeastern sections of the United States.
Reinsurance, specialty insurance and alternative markets operations are
conducted nationwide. Presently, international operations are conducted
primarily in Argentina and the Philippines.


         Net premiums written, as reported on a generally accepted accounting
principles ("GAAP") basis, by the Company's five major insurance industry
segments for the five years ended December 31, 1997 were as follows:



(1)      The Reinsurance and specialty insurance operations have been restated
         in accordance with FAS 131.

         The following sections briefly describe the Company's insurance
segments and subsidiaries. The statutory information contained herein is derived
from that reported to state regulatory authorities in accordance with statutory
accounting practices ("SAP"). The amount of statutory net premiums shown for the
subsidiaries exclude the effects of intercompany reinsurance. In connection with
the acquisition of Midwest Employers Casualty Company ("Midwest") in November
1995, the Company established the alternative markets segment to reflect the
markets served by each of its business segments. The alternative markets segment
consists of Midwest, Signet Star Holding's alternative markets division and the
Company's insurance services units which manage alternative market mechanisms.
The descriptions contain



each significant insurance subsidiary's rating by A.M. Best and Company, Inc.
("A.M. Best"). A.M. Best's Ratings are based upon factors of concern to
policyholders, insurance agents and brokers and are not directed toward the
protection of investors. A.M. Best states: "Best's Ratings reflect [its] opinion
as to the relative financial strength and performance of each insurer in
comparison with others, based on [its] analysis of the information provided to
[it]. These Ratings are not a warranty of an insurer's current or future ability
to meet its contractual obligations."

                          REGIONAL INSURANCE OPERATIONS

         The Company's regional property casualty subsidiaries write standard
commercial and personal lines insurance for such risks as automobiles, homes and
businesses. American West Insurance Company ("American West"), Continental
Western Insurance Company ("Continental Western"), Great River Insurance Company
("Great River"), Tri-State Insurance Company of Minnesota ("Tri-State"), Union
Insurance Company ("Union") and Union Standard Insurance Company ("Union
Standard") obtain their business primarily in the smaller communities of the
midwest and southwest through over 2,000 independent insurance agencies, which
represent them on a non-exclusive basis and are compensated on a commission
basis. Firemen's Insurance Company of Washington D.C. ("Firemen's"), FICO
Insurance Company ("FICO"), Chesapeake Bay Property and Casualty Insurance
Company ("Chesapeake") and Berkley Insurance Company of the Carolinas ("BICC")
primarily sell their policies through agents in the District of Columbia, and
the States of Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Virginia. FICO's
commercial lines of business are marketed principally through brokers in the New
York metropolitan area. Acadia Insurance Company ("Acadia") currently operates
in the States of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, and sells its personal and
commercial coverage's through independent agencies.

         In 1996, the Company formed Berkley Regional Insurance Company ("BRIC")
to act as an intermediate holding Company. The Company contributed to BRIC all
of the capital stock of the regional insurance companies. In 1997 BRIC reinsured
varying portions of the business written by the regional operations. In
addition, BRIC is expanding its licenses so that it will be eligible to write
personal and commercial lines on a direct basis nationally. BRIC's statutory
surplus as of December 31, 1997 was $307,812,000. BRIC is rated A+ by A.M. Best.

Acadia Insurance Company

         Acadia was organized by the Company and incorporated in April 1992. It
writes multiple line property and casualty coverage's in the States of Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont and Massachusetts. Acadia is rated A+ by A.M. Best.
Acadia's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31,
1997 and for the year then ended were $44,943,000 and $127,990,000,
respectively.

American West Insurance Company

         American West is a successor to a company that was organized in 1903 as
a mutual insurance company and converted to a stock company in June 1986. Its
business consists primarily of personal lines in the States of Minnesota,
Montana, Wisconsin and South Dakota. American West is rated A+ by A.M. Best.
American West's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of
December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $9,771,000 and $12,074,000,
respectively. American West is managed by Tri-State, its immediate parent.

Berkley Insurance Company of the Carolinas

         In December 1995, the Company organized BICC, a North Carolina
domiciled company. It writes personal and commercial lines in North Carolina and
is expanding to surrounding states. BICC is rated A+ by A.M. Best. BICC's
statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and
for the year then ended were $9,505,000 and $30,407,000, respectively.



Chesapeake Bay Property and Casualty Insurance Company

         Chesapeake, a Maine domiciled company owned by Acadia, was formed in
1993. In 1997 Firemen's Chesapeake Insurance Division moved its operations to
Chesapeake. Chesapeake writes personal and commercial lines in Virginia and is
expanding to surrounding states. Chesapeake is rated A+ by A.M. Best.
Chesapeake's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December
31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $7,624,000 and $28,030,000,
respectively.

Continental Western Insurance Company

         Continental Western was organized in 1907. It writes a diverse
commercial lines book of business as well as personal lines principally in the
States of Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Illinois, Missouri, Wisconsin and Montana.
Continental Western is rated A+ by A.M. Best. Continental Western's statutory
surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and for the
year then ended were $86,786,000 and $153,618,000, respectively.

Firemen's Insurance Company of Washington, D.C.

         Firemen's was originally incorporated by an Act of Congress in 1836.
Firemen's writes homeowners, other personal lines and commercial risks in the
District of Columbia, and in the States of Maryland, North Carolina and
Virginia. In March 1995, Firemen's established the Presque Isle Insurance
Division in order to expand its operations into the State of Pennsylvania.
Firemen's is rated A+ by A.M. Best. Firemen's statutory surplus and statutory
net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were
$34,667,000 and $54,553,000, respectively.

FICO Insurance Company

         FICO was established in 1988 and is owned by Firemen's. FICO writes
commercial business consisting primarily of multiple dwelling coverage's
principally in the state of New York through operations conducted by Clermont
Specialty Managers, Ltd., an underwriting manager which is owned by the Company.
FICO is rated A+ by A.M. Best. FICO's statutory surplus and net premiums written
as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $8,172,000 and
$10,702,000, respectively.

Great River Insurance Company

         In December 1993, the Company organized Great River, a Mississippi
domiciled company. It writes personal and commercial lines in Mississippi and
Tennessee and is expanding to surrounding states. Great River is rated A+ by
A.M. Best. Great River's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as
of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $13,030,000 and
$41,824,000, respectively.

Tri-State Insurance Company of Minnesota

         Tri-State was originally organized in 1902 as a mutual insurance
company. It writes various commercial lines (specializing in grain elevator
coverages), as well as personal lines primarily, in the States of Minnesota,
Iowa, North and South Dakota, Nebraska, Wisconsin and Illinois. Tri-State is
rated A+ by A.M. Best. Tri-State's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums
written as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $38,580,000 and
$55,556,000, respectively.

Union Insurance Company

         Union was organized originally in 1886 as a mutual insurance company.
Union's business consists of personal lines as well as commercial lines
insurance concentrated in the States of Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado and South
Dakota. Union is rated A+ by A.M. Best. Union's statutory surplus and statutory
net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were
$26,003,000 and $53,523,000, respectively.



Union Standard Insurance Company

         Union Standard is a successor to a company that was organized in 1970.
Union Standard writes personal lines and commercial lines of insurance for small
businesses in the States of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Colorado. Union
Standard is rated A+ by A.M. Best. Union Standard's statutory surplus and
statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then
ended were $34,434,000 and $61,192,000, respectively.

Regional operations:  Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by line, by the Company's regional insurance operations:




         The following table sets forth the percentages of direct premiums
written, by state, by the Company's regional insurance operations:





                             REINSURANCE OPERATIONS

The Company's reinsurance operations consists of six operating units which
specialize in underwriting property, casualty and surety reinsurance on both a
treaty and a facultative basis. Signet Star Holdings, Inc. (Signet Star),
through its subsidiary Signet Star Reinsurance Company, includes the results of
the reinsurance operations and the results of its alternative markets divisions.
For financial segment reporting purposes the results of the alternative market
division are included in the alternative markets segment. Signet Star
Reinsurance Company is rated A by A.M. Best. Signet Star Reinsurance Company's
statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and
for the year then ended were $271,127,000 and $206,652,000, respectively.

The Property Casualty Treaty Division

         The largest business unit in terms of personnel and premiums written,
this division of Signet Star is committed exclusively to the broker market
segment of the treaty reinsurance industry. It functions as a traditional
reinsurer in specialty and standard reinsurance lines.

Facultative ReSources, Inc.

         Facultative ReSources, Inc. ("Fac Re") specializes in individual
certificate and program facultative business. Fac Re's highly experienced
underwriters seek to offset the underwriting and pricing cycles in the
underlying insurance business by developing risk management solutions and
through superior risk selection. Fac Re develops its business through brokers
and on a direct basis where the client does not choose to use an intermediary.

The Fidelity and Surety Division

         The Fidelity and Surety Division ("F&S") operates as a lead reinsurer
in a niche market of the United States property casualty industry where its
highly specialized knowledge and expertise are essential to meet the needs of
Fidelity and Surety primary writers. Business is marketed principally through
brokers as well as directly to clients not served by intermediaries.

The Latin American and Caribbean Division

         Signet Star's newest business unit is devoted exclusively to Latin
American and Caribbean business ("LACD"). This division handles most traditional
lines of property and casualty treaty business and is developing a book of niche
business.

Gemini Insurance Company

         Gemini is an excess and surplus lines insurance company created to
provide Signet Star with primary issuing carrier capability and thereby generate
"reverse flow" business. Under the reverse flow concept, a reinsurer writes
primary business that it then cedes back to itself. Gemini provides Signet Star
with a controlled source of new business. It operates as an authorized insurance
company in the State of Delaware and will operate nationwide, as necessary legal
and regulatory requirements are met, as an approved excess and surplus lines
carrier.



Reinsurance Operations: Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums
written, by line, by the Company's reinsurance operations:



         The following table sets forth the percentage of gross premiums
written, by property versus casualty business, by the Company's reinsurance
operations:




                         SPECIALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

         The Company's specialty lines of insurance consist primarily of excess
and surplus lines ("E & S"), commercial transportation, professional liability,
directors and officers liability and surety. Specialty lines also included the
results of the Company's reinsurance operations through June 30, 1993 (see:
"Other information about the Company's business").

Admiral Insurance Company

         The majority of the Company's E & S insurance business is conducted by
Admiral Insurance Company ("Admiral"). Admiral specializes in general liability
coverages, including products liability and professional liability. Admiral
insures risks requiring specialized treatment not available in the conventional
market, with coverage designed to meet the specific needs of the insured.
Business is received from wholesale brokers via retail agents, whose clients are
the insureds. E & S carriers operate on a non-admitted basis in the states where
they write business. They are generally free from rate regulation and policy
form requirements. Admiral's business is obtained on a nationwide basis from
approximately 190 non-exclusive brokers, who do not have the authority to commit
the Company, and who are compensated on a commission basis. Admiral also writes
directors and officers liability insurance through operations conducted by
Monitor Liability Managers, Inc., an underwriting manager established by the
Company. Admiral is rated A++ by A.M. Best. Admiral's statutory surplus and
statutory net premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then
ended were $218,917,000 and $72,103,000, respectively.

Carolina Casualty Insurance Company

         The Company's commercial transportation operations are primarily
conducted by Carolina Casualty Insurance Company ("Carolina"). Carolina writes
liability, physical damage and cargo insurance for the transportation industry,
concentrating on long-haul trucking companies. Municipal bus lines, charter
buses and school buses also make up a substantial part of Carolina's book of
business. Carolina's business is obtained nationwide from approximately 120
agents and brokers who are compensated on a commission basis. In June 1995,
Carolina began writing surety bonds through operations conducted by Monitor
Surety Managers, Inc., an



underwriting manager established by the Company. In December 1997, Carolina
began writing directors and officers liability insurance through operations
conducted by Monitor Liability Managers, Inc. Carolina is rated A by A.M. Best.
Carolina's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as of December
31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $66,004,000 and $50,550,000,
respectively.

Nautilus Insurance Company

         Nautilus Insurance Company ("Nautilus") was established in 1985 to
insure E & S risks which involve a lower degree of expected severity than those
covered by Admiral. Nautilus obtains its business nationwide from approximately
135 non-exclusive general agents, some of which also provide business to
Admiral. A substantial portion of Nautilus' business is written on a binding
authority basis, subject to certain contractual limitations. Nautilus is rated A
by A.M. Best. Nautilus's statutory surplus and statutory net premiums written as
of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were $68,092,000 at
$45,494,000, respectively. Great Divide Insurance Company ("Great Divide"), a
subsidiary of Nautilus, writes transportation risks, as well as other specialty
lines, on an admitted basis.

Specialty Operations:  Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums
written, by line, by the Company's specialty insurance operations:




                               ALTERNATIVE MARKETS

         The Company's alternative markets operations specialize in insuring,
reinsuring and administering self-insurance programs and other alternative risk
transfer mechanisms for public entities, private employers and associations.
Typical clients are those who are driven by various factors to seek less costly
and more efficient techniques to manage their exposure to claims. The Company's
alternative markets segment consists of: excess workers' compensation insurance
written by Midwest Employers Casualty Company ("Midwest"); reinsurance of
alternative risk business; and insurance services operations which manage
alternative market mechanisms.

Midwest Employers Casualty Company

         In November 1995, the Company acquired Midwest Employers Casualty
Company ("Midwest"). Midwest markets and underwrites excess workers'
compensation ("EWC") insurance. EWC insurance is marketed to employers and
employer groups which have elected and have qualified or been approved by state
regulatory authorities to self-insure their workers' compensation programs. EWC
insurance provides coverage to a self-insured employer once the employers'
losses exceed the employer's retention amount. Midwest offers a complete line of
EWC products, including specific and aggregate EWC insurance policies and surety
bonds. In addition, Midwest began to offer a "large deductible" product in 1996.
Midwest is rated A- by A.M. Best. Midwest's statutory surplus and statutory net
premiums written as of December 31, 1997 and for the year then ended were
$118,070,000 and $54,859,000, respectively.



Signet Star - Alternative Markets Division

         Signet Star Reinsurance Company's Alternative Markets Division
specializes in providing custom designed reinsurance products and services to
alternative markets ("ARM") clients, such as captive insurance companies, risk
retention groups, public entity insurance trusts and governmental pools. ARM
clients are generally self-insured vehicles which provide insurance buyers with
a mechanism for assuming part of their own risk, managing their exposures,
modifying their loss costs and, ultimately, participating in the underwriting
results. Signet Star has been an active reinsurer of ARM clients for over ten
years and is considered to be one of the leading broker market reinsurers of ARM
business. The Alternative Markets Division has access to substantial additional
resources within the Company, which has enabled it to concentrate and coordinate
the Company's focus on this growing sector of the reinsurance market.

Insurance Services Operations

         The Company's insurance service operations offer a variety of products,
which includes underwriting and claims administration and alternative insurance
market mechanisms. In addition, the insurance services operations subsidiaries
of the Company provide agency and brokerage services to both affiliated and
unaffiliated entities.

Berkley Administrators

         Berkley Administrators, a division of Tri-State headquartered in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, provides risk management and administration services to
its clients, including underwriting, loss control, policy issuance and claims
handling. A significant portion of Berkley Administrators' present business is
the administration of the Minnesota Workers' Compensation Assigned Risk Plan.

Berkley Risk Services, LLC

         The Company acquired Berkley Risk Services LLC and its subsidiaries
("Berkley Risk") operations beginning in 1988. In 1997 Berkley Risk Services,
Inc. was restructured into a limited liability company. Berkley Risk, based in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, is a property casualty risk management firm which
specializes in the development and administration of group and single-employer
alternative insurance funding techniques. Berkley Risk also manage entities
which provide liability insurance and claim adjusting services to public
entities and not-for-profit organizations.

Key Risk Management Services, Inc.

         The Company acquired Key Risk Management Services, Inc. ("Key Risk") in
1994. Key Risk, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, is a property casualty risk
management firm which specializes in management and administration of group
self-insured funds. A significant portion of Key Risk's present business is the
administration of the North Carolina Associated Industries Workers' Compensation
Fund. In 1998 the Company organized Key Risk Insurance Company as of North
Carolina Insurance Company for usage by Key Risk.

Berkley Risk Managers

         Berkley Risk Managers is a successor to a company acquired in 1990.
Berkley Risk Managers, based in Somerset, New Jersey, is primarily involved in
the development and administration of self-funded property casualty and health
insurance programs primarily for municipalities and other governmental entities.

All American Agency Facilities, Inc.

         All American Agency Facilities, Inc., based in Denver, Colorado,
provides wholesale brokerage and general agency services on a nationwide basis
for unaffiliated insurance carriers as well as certain of the Company's
insurance subsidiaries.



Berkley Care Network, Inc.

         The Company established Berkley Care Network, Inc. ("Berkley Care") in
1995. Berkley Care, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, is a managed health
care company offering utilization review and case management services for
workers' compensation carriers in North Carolina. In 1997, the Company acquired
Berkley Care Network, Northeast to provide managed care services in the State of
Connecticut. Berkley Care expects to expand the geographic scope of its
operations over the next several years.


Alternative Markets Operations: Business

         The following table sets forth the percentages of revenues, by major
source of business, of the alternative markets operations:




                            INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

         In 1995, the Company and Northwestern Mutual Life International, Inc.
("NML"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company, entered into a joint venture to form Berkley International LLC
("Berkley International"), a limited liability company. The Company agreed to
contribute up to $65 million to Berkley International in exchange for a 65%
membership interest and NML agreed to contribute up to $35 million to Berkley
International in exchange for a 35% membership interest.

         Berkley International owns 99.9916% of Berkley International Argentina
S.A. ("Berkley S.A."), an Argentine holding company. Berkley S.A. owns the
following property casualty insurance companies: 76.66% of Union Berkley
Compania de Seguros, S.A.; 80% of Independencia Compania Argentina de Seguros,
S.A.; 99.9667% of Berkley International Aseguradora de Riesgos de Trabajo S.A.,
and 85% of Oceano Compania Argentina de Seguros. Berkley S.A. also owns 99.9167%
of Risk Management Services S.A., which is third-party administrator and 90% of
Jackson Berkley Life. In addition, Berkley International owns 59% of a
Philippine holding company, as well as Family First, Inc. Philippine Insurance
Holdings, Inc. owns 100% of the following companies: Berkley International Life
Insurance Company, Inc., Berkley International Plans, Inc., and Berkley
Insurance Company of the Philippines, Inc.



                           RESULTS BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT

         Summary financial information about the Company's operating segments is
presented on a GAAP basis in the following table (all amounts include realized
capital gains and losses):



(1)      The Reinsurance and specialty operations have been restated in
         accordance with FAS 131.



         The combined ratio represents a measure of underwriting profitability,
excluding investment income. A number in excess of 100 indicates an underwriting
loss; a number below 100 indicates an underwriting profit. Summary information
for the Company's insurance companies and the insurance industry is presented in
the following table (1):





(1)  Based on U.S. statutory accounting practices.

(2)  The Reinsurance and specialty insurance operations have been restated
     in accordance with FAS 131.

(3)  Based on the Company's consolidated net premiums written to statutory
     surplus.

(4)  Estimated by A.M. Best

(5)  Source: A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, for stock companies.

(6)  Source: A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, for total industry.



Investments

         Investment results before income tax effects were as follows:




(1)      The change in unrealized investment gains (losses) represents the
         difference between fair value and cost of investments at the beginning
         and end of the calendar year, including investments carried at cost.

         The percentages of the fixed maturity portfolio categorized by
contractual maturity, based on fair value, on the dates indicated, are set forth
below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain
issuers have the right to call or prepay obligations.



Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves

         In the property casualty industry, it is not unusual for significant
periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, to elapse between the
occurrence of an insured loss, the report of the loss to the insurer and the
insurer's payment of that loss. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses,
insurers establish reserves, which is a balance sheet account representing
estimates of future amounts needed to pay claims and related expenses with
respect to insured events which have occurred. The Company's loss reserves
reflect current estimates of the ultimate cost of closing outstanding claims;
other than its Excess Workers Compensation business, as discussed below, the
Company does not discount its reserves to estimated present value for financial
reporting purposes.

         In general, when a claim is reported, claims personnel establish a
"case reserve" for the estimated amount of the ultimate payment. The estimate
represents an informed judgment based on general reserving practices and
reflects the experience and knowledge of the claims personnel regarding the
nature and value of the specific type of claim. Reserves are also established on
an aggregate basis which provide for losses incurred but not yet reported to the
insurer, potential inadequacy of case reserves, the estimated expenses of
settling claims, including legal and other fees and general expenses of
administering the claims adjustment process ("LAE"), and a provision for
potentially uncollectible reinsurance. Each insurance subsidiary's net retention
for each line of insurance is taken into consideration in the computation of
ultimate losses.

         In examining reserve adequacy, historical data is reviewed and
consideration is given to such factors as legal developments, changes in social
attitudes and economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. The
actuarial process relies on the basic assumption that



past experience, judgmentally adjusted for the effects of current developments
and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events.
Reserve amounts are necessarily based on management's informed estimates and
judgments using data currently available. As additional experience and other
data become available and are reviewed, these estimates and judgments are
revised, resulting in increases or decreases to reserves for insured events of
prior years. The reserving process implicitly recognizes the impact of inflation
and other factors affecting loss costs by taking into account changes in
historic claim patterns and perceived trends. There is no precise method to
evaluate the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, because
the ultimate cost of closing claims is influenced by numerous factors.

         While the methods for establishing the reserves are well tested over
time, some of the major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns
are subject to fluctuation. In particular, high levels of jury verdicts against
insurers, as well as judicial decisions which "re-formulate" policies to expand
their coverage to previously unforeseen theories of liability, including those
regarding pollution and other environmental exposures, have produced
unanticipated claims and increased the difficulty of estimating the loss and
loss adjustment expense reserves provided by the Company. With respect to year
2000 claims exposure for our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, to date,
no significant losses have arisen. However, due to the potential judicial
decisions which re-formulate policies to expand their coverage to previously
unforeseen theories of liabilities which may produce unanticipated claims, at
this point in time, the estimation of any potential year 2000 liabilities is
not determinable.


         Due to the nature of EWC business and the long period of time over
which losses are paid in this line of business, the Company discounts its
liabilities for EWC losses and loss expenses. Discounting liabilities for losses
and loss expenses gives recognition to the time value of money set aside to pay
claims in the future and is intended to appropriately match losses and loss
expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting the liabilities.
The expected losses and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting was
derived from Midwest's loss payout experience and is supplemented with data
compiled by insurance companies writing workers' compensation on an
excess-of-loss basis. The expected payout pattern has a very long duration
because it reflects the nature of losses which generally penetrate self-insured
retention limits contained in EWC policies. The Company has limited the expected
payout duration to 30 years in order to introduce an additional level of
conservatism into the discounting process. These liabilities have been
discounted using "risk-free" discount rates determined by reference to the U.S.
Treasury yield curve weighted for EWC premium volume to reflect the seasonality
of the anticipated duration of losses associated with such coverages. The
average discount rate for accident years 1997, 1996 and 1995 and prior was
approximately 5.98%, 5.90% and 5.80%, respectively. The aggregate net discount,
after reflecting the effects of ceded reinsurance, is $189,600,000, $172,415,000
and $152,235,000 at December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

         To date, known pollution and environmental claims at the Company's
insurance company subsidiaries have not had a material impact on the Company's
operations. Environmental claims have not materially impacted the Company
because these subsidiaries generally did not insure the larger industrial
companies which are subject to significant environmental exposures.

         The Company's net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
relating to pollution and environmental claims were $33.1 million and $35.2
million at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Company's gross
reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to pollution and
environmental claims were $68.4 million and $71.9 million at December 31, 1997
and 1996, respectively. Net incurred losses and loss expenses for reported
pollution and environmental claims were approximately $0.1 million, $6.9 million
and $8.0 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Net paid losses and loss
expenses has averaged approximately $3 million for each of the last three years.
The estimation of these liabilities is subject to significantly greater than
normal variation and uncertainty because it is difficult to make a reasonable
actuarial estimate of these liabilities due to the absence of a generally
accepted actuarial methodology for these exposures and the potential affect of
significant unresolved legal matters, including coverage issues as well as the
cost of litigating the legal issues. Additionally, the determination of ultimate
damages and the final allocation of such damages to financially responsible
parties is highly uncertain.



         The table below provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending
reserve balances, on a gross of reinsurance basis (dollars in thousands):



       A reconciliation, as of December 31, 1997, between the reserves reported
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements which have been prepared
in accordance with GAAP and those reported on a SAP basis is as follows (in
thousands):



(1)      Claims occurring during the current year is net of discount of
         $29,783,000, 28,885,000 and $708,000 for the years ended December 31,
         1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(2)      For statutory purposes, Midwest uses a discount rate of 3.0% as
         permitted by the Department of Insurance of the State of Ohio. For GAAP
         purposes, Midwest uses a discount rate based on the U. S. Treasury
         yield curve weighted for the expected payout period, as described
         above.

         The following table presents the development of net reserves for 1986
through 1997. The top line of the table shows the estimated reserves for unpaid
losses and loss expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
indicated years. This represents the estimated amount of losses and loss
expenses for claims arising in all prior years that are unpaid at the balance
sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but not yet reported to the
Company. The upper portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the
previously recorded reserves based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The estimate changes as more information becomes known about
the frequency and severity of claims for individual years.

         The "cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years. For example, the 1986 reserves
have developed a $47 million deficiency over ten years. That amount has been
reflected in income over the ten years. The impact on the results of operations
of the past three years of changes in reserve estimates is shown in the
reconciliation tables above.

         It should be noted that the table presents a "run off" of balance sheet
reserves, rather than accident or policy year loss development. Therefore, each
amount in the table includes the effects of changes in reserves for all prior
years. For example, assume a claim that occurred in 1987 is reserved for $2,000
as of December 31, 1987. Assuming this claim was settled for $2,300 in 1997, the
$300 deficiency would appear as a deficiency in each year from 1987 through
1996.







Regulation

         The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to varying degrees of
regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business, under
statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to
state insurance commissioners. This regulation relates to such matters as the
standards of solvency which must be met and maintained; the licensing of
insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments;
deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy
forms and premium rates; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance
companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial
condition of insurers or for other purposes; establishment and maintenance of
reserves for unearned premiums and losses; and requirements regarding numerous
other matters. In general, the Company's regional property casualty subsidiaries
as well as Carolina, Great Divide and Midwest must file all rates for personal
and commercial insurance with the insurance department of each state in which
they operate. The Company's E&S and reinsurance subsidiaries generally operate
free of rate and form regulation.

         In addition to regulatory supervision of its insurance subsidiaries,
the Company is subject to state statutes governing insurance holding company
systems. Typically, such statutes require the Company periodically to file
information with the state insurance commissioner, including information
concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general
business operations. Under the terms of applicable state statutes, any person or
entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10%) of
the Company's outstanding voting securities would be required to obtain
regulatory approval of the purchase. Under Florida law, which is applicable to
the Company due to its ownership of Carolina, a Florida domiciled insurer, the
acquisition of more than 5% of the Company's capital stock must receive
regulatory approval. Further, state insurance statutes typically place
limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by
insurance companies in order to protect their solvency. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Liquidity and Capital Resources."

         During the past several years, various regulatory and legislative
bodies adopted or proposed new laws or regulations to deal with the cyclical
nature of the insurance industry, catastrophic events and their effects on
shortage of capacity and pricing. These regulations, which have not had a
material impact on the Company's operations, include (i) the creation of "market
assistance plans" under which insurers are induced to provide certain coverages,
(ii) restrictions on the ability of insurers to cancel certain policies in
mid-term, (iii) advance notice requirements or limitations imposed for certain
policy non-renewals and (iv) limitations upon or decreases in rates permitted to
be charged. The passage of Proposition 103 in the State of California did not
have a material adverse impact on the Company's operations because the Company's
subsidiaries operate in that State primarily on a non-admitted basis. The
non-admitted market in California, however, has been subjected to increased
levels of regulation. Admiral and Nautilus, both of which derive significant
premiums from California, may be adversely impacted by increased regulation
which causes business to remain in the admitted market.

         Various state and federal organizations, including Congressional
committees and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"),
have been conducting investigations into various aspects of the insurance
business. The NAIC has adopted risk based capital ("RBC") requirements that
require insurance companies to calculate and report information under a
risk-based formula which measures statutory capital and surplus needs based on a
regulatory definition of risk in a company's mix of products and its balance
sheet. The implementation of RBC did not effect the operations of the Company's
insurance subsidiaries since all of its subsidiaries have an RBC amount above
the authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC. Federal legislation is
being considered which would either abolish or limit the current exemption of
the insurance industry from portions of the antitrust laws, impose direct
federal oversight or federal solvency standards. No assurance can be given that
future legislative or regulatory changes resulting from such activity will not
adversely affect the Company's insurance subsidiaries.



         The Company's insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessment by
state guaranty funds when an insurer in that jurisdiction has been judicially
declared insolvent and insufficient funds are available from the liquidated
company to pay policyholders and claimants. The protection afforded under a
state's guaranty fund to policyholders of the insolvent insurer varies from
state to state. Generally, all licensed property casualty insurers are
considered to be members of the fund, and assessments are based upon their pro
rata share of direct written premiums. The NAIC Model Post-Assessment Guaranty
Fund Act, which many states have adopted, limits assessments to an insurer to 2%
of its subject premium and permits recoupment of assessments through rate
setting. Likewise, several states (or underwriting organizations of which the
Company's insurance subsidiaries are required to be members) have limited
assessment authority with regard to deficits in certain lines of business. To
date, assessments have not had a material adverse impact on operations.

         The Company receives funds from its insurance subsidiaries in the form
of dividends and fees for certain management services. Annual dividends in
excess of maximum amounts prescribed by state statutes ("extraordinary
dividends") may not be paid without the approval of the insurance commissioner
of the state in which an insurance subsidiary is domiciled. The NAIC has
proposed and certain states have adopted legislation that lowers the threshold
amount for determining what constitutes an extraordinary dividend. Such
legislative changes could make it more difficult for insurance subsidiaries to
pay dividends to their parents. Similarly, the NAIC has proposed a new model
investment law that may affect the statutory carrying values of certain
investments; however, the final outcome of that proposal is not certain, nor is
it possible to predict what impact the proposal will have on the Company or
whether the proposal will be adopted in the foreseeable future.

Tax Law Changes

         There were no tax law changes in 1997 that significantly affected the
Company.

Competition

         The property casualty insurance and reinsurance business is
competitive, with over 2,000 insurance companies transacting business in the
United States. The Company competes directly with a large number of these
companies. The Company's strategy in this highly fragmented industry is to seek
specialized areas or geographic regions where its insurance subsidiaries can
gain a competitive advantage by responding quickly to changing market
conditions. Each of the Company's subsidiaries establishes its own pricing
practices. Such practices are based upon a Company-wide philosophy to price
products with the general intent of making an underwriting profit. Competition
in the industry generally changes with profitability.

         The regional property casualty subsidiaries compete with mutual and
other regional stock companies as well as national carriers. Direct writers of
property casualty insurance compete with the regional subsidiaries by writing
insurance through their salaried employees, generally at a lower cost than
through independent agents such as those used by the Company.

         Signet Star's competition comes from domestic and foreign reinsurers,
some of which have greater financial resources than Signet Star who place their
business either on a direct basis or through the broker market.

         The E & S area is a highly specialized segment of the insurance
industry. Admiral and Nautilus compete with other E & S carriers, some of which
are larger and have greater resources than Admiral and Nautilus. Under certain
market conditions, standard carriers may compete for the types of business
written by Admiral and Nautilus. In addition, there are regional and specialty
carriers competing with Admiral and Nautilus when they underwrite business in
their regions or specialties.

         Carolina and Great Divide's competition comes mainly from other
specialty transportation insurers and large national multi-line companies.

         Midwest's competition comes from insurance and reinsurance companies,
some of which have greater financial resource than Midwest. Most of theses
carriers write specific EWC



coverage, do not offer aggregate EWC coverage and tend to focus on risks larger
than those targeted by Midwest. In addition, Midwest competes with other
specialty EWC insurers.

         The Insurance Services Operations face competition from several large
nationally known service organizations as well as local competitors. The
International Operations compete with native insurance operations both large and
small, which maybe related to government entities, as well as with branch or
local subsidiaries of multi-national companies.

Employees

         As of March 2, 1998, the Company employed 4,046 persons. Of this
number, the Company's subsidiaries employed 3,999 persons, of whom 2,283 were
executive and administrative personnel and 1,716 were clerical personnel. The
Company employed the remaining 47 persons in its parent company and investment
operations, of whom 38 were executive and administrative personnel and 9 were
clerical personnel.

Other information about the Company's business:

         The Company maintains an ongoing interest in acquiring additional
companies and developing new insurance entities, products and packages as
opportunities arise. In addition, the insurance subsidiaries develop new
coverages or lines of business to meet the needs of insureds.

         Seasonal weather variations affect the severity and frequency of losses
sustained by the insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Although the effect on
the Company's business of such natural catastrophes as tornadoes, hurricanes,
hailstorms and earthquakes is mitigated by reinsurance, they nevertheless can
have a significant impact on the results of any one reporting period.

         The Company has no customer which accounts for 10 percent or more of
its consolidated revenues.

         Compliance by the Company and its subsidiaries with federal, state and
local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of
materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to protection of the
environment, has not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position of the Company.

         The Company currently does not engage in material operations in foreign
countries nor is a material portion of its revenues presently derived from
customers in foreign countries. In 1995, the Company entered into a joint
venture to acquire insurance and insurance related operations outside the United
States (see "International Operations"). However, the Company's insurance
subsidiaries regularly purchase a portion of their catastrophe reinsurance
coverage from foreign reinsurers, including syndicate members of Lloyd's of
London. While Queen's Island is domiciled in Bermuda, to date its business has
exclusively been reinsurance of its domestic affiliates.

         On July 1, 1993, the Company exchanged all the stock of Signet
Reinsurance Company ("Signet") for 60% of the stock of Signet Star, a newly
formed holding company. Signet Star simultaneously acquired all the stock of
North Star Reinsurance Company ("North Star Reinsurance") from General Re in
exchange for 40% of the stock of Signet Star and senior and convertible notes.
In connection with the formation of Signet Star, North Star Reinsurance entered
into a Retrocessional Agreement (the "Retrocessional Agreement") with General
Reinsurance Corporation ("GRC"), pursuant to which North Star Reinsurance
reinsured its respective liabilities and assigned its respective rights and
obligations arising from any insurance or reinsurance contracts written prior to
January 1, 1993 with and to GRC.

         On December 31, 1995, the Company purchased General Re's interest in
Signet Star by issuing to General Re 458,667 shares of Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company having an aggregate liquidation
preference of $68,800,000, which was redeemed in 1997. In addition, the Company
guaranteed a senior subordinated promissory note of Signet Star which was issued
to General Re in exchange for the convertible note which General Re held. As
part



of this transaction, Signet Star sold to General Re Signet Star Reinsurance
Company and renamed Signet Reinsurance Company, Signet Star Reinsurance Company.

         In connection with the 1995 acquisition of the remaining 40% interest
in Signet Star, North Star Reinsurance was sold to General Re and all business
written subsequent to July 1, 1993 was novated to Signet Star. As a result,
business written by North Star Reinsurance prior to January 1, 1993, which had
been retroceded to General Re, is no longer reflected in the Company's financial
statements. The only effect on the Company's financial statements resulting from
this aspect of the transaction is that the Company's reserves for losses and
loss expenses is reduced by $735,144,000 and "due from reinsurers" is reduced by
the same amount. This aspect of the transaction does not effect the Company's
cash flow, equity or statements of operations.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

         The Company and its subsidiaries own or lease office buildings or
office space suitable to conduct their operations. Such owned property is as
follows:


         Location                          Company                Size (sq. ft.)
         --------                          -------                --------------

         Cherry Hill, New Jersey           Admiral                    42,000
         Grand Forks, North Dakota         American West              10,000
         Jacksonville, Florida             Carolina (1)               19,000
         Lincoln, Nebraska                 Union                      43,000
         Lincoln, Nebraska                 Continental Western        20,000
         Luverne, Minnesota                Tri-State                  33,000
         Meridian, Mississippi             Great River                30,000
         Scottsdale, Arizona               Nautilus                   34,000
         Urbandale, Iowa                   Continental Western        80,000
         Westbrook, Maine                  Acadia                     54,000


(1) Presently leased to a third party.

         In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries lease office facilities
in various other cities under leases with varying terms and expiration dates.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Claims under insurance policies written by the Company's insurance
subsidiaries are investigated and settled either by claims adjusters employed by
them, by their independent agents or by independent adjusters. Each subsidiary
employs a staff of claims adjusters at its home office and at some regional
offices. Some independent agents may have the authority to settle small claims.
Independent claims adjusting firms are used to assist in handling various claims
in areas where insurance volume does not warrant the maintenance of a staff
adjuster. If a claim or loss cannot be settled and results in litigation, the
subsidiary generally retains outside counsel.

         At present, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is engaged
in any litigation known to the Company which is expected to have a material
adverse effect upon the Company's business. As is common with property casualty
insurance companies, the Company's subsidiaries are regularly engaged in the
defense of claims arising out of the conduct of the insurance business.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1997 to a vote
of holders of the Company's Common Stock.



                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

         The Common Stock of the Company is traded in the over-the-counter
market and is quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotation ("NASDAQ") National Market System under the symbol "BKLY". The
following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the indicated
periods, all as reported by NASDAQ(1).




(1)   Adjusted for the 3 for 2 stock split.

         The closing price on March 2, 1998, as reported on the NASDAQ National
Market System, was $44.875 per share. The approximate number of record holders
of the Common Stock on March 2, 1998 was 829.

         On December 20, 1996, the W.R. Berkley Capital Trust (the "Trust")
issued for cash $210,000,000 of 8.197% Company obligated mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities of a subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated
debentures (the "Capital Securities") representing preferred beneficial
interests in the Trust. The Company is the owner of the beneficial interests
represented by the common securities of the Trust. The Trust exists for the sole
purpose of issuing the Capital Securities and investing the proceeds in the
8.197% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the Company.
The Capital Securities were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities Act"), and were sold to "qualified institutional
buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in reliance upon the
exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by
Rule 144A, or to institutional "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule 501
(a) (1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act.) See Note 8 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements."



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FOR THE FIVE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997



(1)  Data per common share have been adjusted to reflect the 3 for 2 stock
     split. Basic and Diluted income per share and weighted averages shares have
     been calculated in accordance with FAS 128.



The information required by Items 7 and 8 of Part II is incorporated by
reference to the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders as follows:

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
        Pages 18 through 23 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
        Pages 24 through 40 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The following information is provided as to the Directors and executive
officers of the Company as of March 4, 1998:



         As permitted by Delaware law, the Board of Directors of the Company is
divided into three classes, the classes being divided as equally as possible and
each class having a term of three years. Directors generally serve until their
respective successors are elected at the annual meeting of stockholders which
ends their term. None of the Company's Directors has any family relationship
with any other Director or executive officer. Each year the term of office of
one class expires. In May 1997, the term of a class consisting of two Directors
expired. William R. Berkley and Robert B. Hodes were elected as Directors to
hold office for a term of three years until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
in 2000 and until their successors are duly chosen.

         William R. Berkley has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company since its formation in 1967. He also served as President
at various times from 1967 to 1995. He also serves as Chairman of the Board or
Director of a number of public and private companies. These include The
Greenwich Bank & Trust Company, a newly formed Connecticut chartered commercial
bank; Pioneer Companies, Inc., a chemical manufacturing and marketing company;
Strategic Distribution, Inc., an industrial products distribution and services
company; and Interlaken Capital, Inc., a private investment firm with interests
in various businesses. His current term as a Director expires in 2000.



         John D. Vollaro has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company since January, 1996 and Director since September, 1995. He was Chief
Executive Officer of Signet Star Holdings, Inc., an affiliate of the Company,
from July, 1993 to December, 1995. He served as Executive Vice President of the
Company from 1991 until 1993 and was Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of
the Company from 1983 through 1993; and Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company from 1983 to 1991. Mr. Vollaro's current
term as a Director expires in 1998.

         Sam Daniel, Jr. has been Senior Vice President - Regional Operations
since April 1990. Prior thereto, he was employed by Hanover Insurance Company
for more than five years as Vice President.

         Anthony J. Del Tufo has been Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company since September 1993. Before joining the
Company Mr. Del Tufo was a partner with KPMG Peat Marwick from 1975 to 1993.

         E. LeRoy Heer has been Senior Vice President - Chief Corporate Actuary
since January 1991. Prior thereto, he had been Vice President - Corporate
Actuary since May 1978.

         H. Raymond Lankford, Jr. has been Senior Vice President - Alternative
Markets Operations since April 1996. Prior thereto, he was President of All
American Agency Facilities, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, from October 1991
having joined All American in 1990. He has been in the insurance business in
various capacities for more than 20 years.

         Ira S. Lederman has been Senior Vice President since January 1997.
Additionally he was named General Counsel of Berkley International in January
1998. He is also Assistant General Counsel a position he has held since July
1989 and Assistant Secretary since May 1986. Previously, he was Vice President
from May 1986 until January 1997. Prior thereto he was Insurance Counsel of the
Company since May 1986 and Associate Counsel from April 1983.

         James G. Shiel has been Senior Vice President - Investments of the
Company since January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Investments
of the Company since January 1992. Since February 1994, he has been President of
Berkley Dean & Company, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, which he joined in
1987.

         Edward A. Thomas has been Senior Vice President - Specialty Operations
of the Company since April 1991. Prior thereto, he was President of Signet
Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of the Company, for more than five years.

         Robert P. Cole was named Senior Vice President in January 1998. Prior
thereto, he was Vice President since October 1996. Before joining the Company
Mr. Cole was a senior Officer of Christania Reinsurance Company of New York
which was purchased by Folksamerica Reinsurance Company in 1996 and prior to
that was associated with reinsurers for twenty years.

         Donald J. Veldkamp was named Senior Vice President, Technology and
Distribution Systems in January 1998. He most recently served as Chairman of
Union Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the Company, since July 1997. Prior to
that he was President of Union Insurance Company from May 1990 to July 1997 and
President of Tri-State Insurance Company of Minnesota, also a subsidiary of the
Company, from February 1980 to May 1990.

         Clement P. Patafio has been Vice President - Corporate Controller since
January 1997. Prior thereto, he was Assistant Vice President - Corporate
Controller in July 1994 and Assistant Controller since May 1993. Before joining
the Company Mr. Patafio was with KPMG Peat Marwick from 1986 to 1993.

         Scott A. Siegel has been Vice President - Taxes since January 1997.
Prior thereto, he was Director of Taxes since September 1991. Before joining the
Company Mr. Siegel was with KPMG Peat Marwick from 1981 to 1991.



         Robert B. Hodes has been a Director of the Company since 1970. Mr.
Hodes is Counsel to the New York law firm of Wilkie Farr & Gallagher. He is also
a director of Crystal Oil Company; Globalstar Telecommunications, Limited.; K&F
Industries Inc.; Loral Space & Communications Ltd.; Mueller Industries, Inc.;
R.V.I. Guaranty, Ltd.; LCH Investments N.V.; and Restructured Capital Holdings,
Ltd. Mr. Hodes' current term as a Director expires in 2000.

         Henry Kaufman has been a Director of the Company since 1994. Dr.
Kaufman is President of Henry Kaufman & Co., Inc., an investment, economic and
financial consulting company since its establishment in 1988. Dr. Kaufman serves
as Chairman of the Board of Overseers, Stern School of Business of NYU; Chairman
of the Board of Trustees, Institute of International Education; Member of the
Board of Directors, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; Member of the Board
of Directors, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.; Member of the Board of Trustees,
New York University; Member of the International Capital Markets Advisory
Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Member of the Board of
Trustees, Whitney Museum of American Art; Member of the Advisory Committee to
the Investment Committee, International Monetary Fund Staff Retirement Plan and
Member of the Board of Governors, Tel-Aviv University. Dr. Kaufman's current
term as a Director expires in 1998.

         Richard G. Merrill has been a Director of the Company since 1994. Mr.
Merrill was Executive Vice President of Prudential Insurance Company of America
from August 1987 to March 1991 when he retired. Prior thereto, Mr. Merrill
served as Chairman and President of Prudential Asset Management Company since
1985. Mr. Merrill is a Director of Sysco Corp. Mr. Merrill's current term as a
Director expires in 1999.

         Jack H. Nusbaum has been a Director of the Company since 1967. Mr.
Nusbaum is the Chairman of the New York law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher
where he has been a partner for more than the last five years. He is a director
of Fine Host Corporation; Pioneer Companies, Inc.; Prime Hospitality Corp.;
Strategic Distribution Inc.; and The Topps Company, Inc. Mr. Nusbaum's current
term as a Director expires in 1999.

         Mark L. Shapiro has been a Director of the Company since 1974. Since
July 1997, Mr. Shapiro has been a Senior Consultant to the Export-Import Bank of
the United States. Previously, he was a Managing Director in the investment
banking firm of Schroder & Co. Inc. for more than the past five years. Mr.
Shapiro's current term as a Director expires in 1999.

         Martin Stone has been a Director of Berkley since 1990. Mr. Stone is
Chairman of Professional Sports, Inc. (the Tucson Sidewinders AAA baseball team)
and Chairman of Adirondack Corporation, all for more than the past five years.
Mr. Stone is also a director of Canyon Ranch, Inc. and a member of the Advisory
Board of Yosemite National Park. Mr. Stone's current term as a Director expires
in 1998.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1997, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         (a) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement,
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after December 31, 1997, and which is incorporated herein by reference.



         (b) Security ownership of management

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement,
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after December 31, 1997, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

         (c) Changes in control

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement,
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after December 31, 1997, and which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Reference is made to the registrant's definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
December 31, 1997, and which is incorporated herein by reference.



                                     PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         Index to Financial Statements 

         The Management's Discussion and Analysis and the Company's financial
statements, together with the report thereon of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, appearing
on pages 18 through 40 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception
of the aforementioned information, the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is not
deemed to be filed as part of this report. The schedules to the financial
statements listed below should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements in such 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders. Financial statement
schedules not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been omitted
because they are not applicable or required information as shown in the
financial statements or notes thereto.
 
(a)      Index to Financial Statement Schedules                             Page

         Independent Auditors' Report on Schedules and Consent               33

         Schedule II - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant         34

         Schedule III - Supplementary Insurance Information                  38

         Schedule IV - Reinsurance                                           39

         Schedule VI - Supplementary Information concerning
                        Property & Casualty Insurance Operations             40


(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

(c)      Exhibits

         The exhibits filed as part of this report are listed on pages 31 and 32
hereof.






                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
         Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
         its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION



                                By /s/ William R. Berkley
                                   _____________________________________________
                                   William R. Berkley, Chairman of the Board and
                                              Chief Executive Officer


March 10, 1998



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







ITEM 14.  (c)      EXHIBITS



Number

(2.1)      Agreement and Plan of Merger between the Company, Berkley Newco Corp.
           and MECC, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the
           current reports on Form 8-K (file No. 0-7849) filed with the
           Commission September 28, 1995).

(2.2)      Agreement and Plan of Restructuring, dated July 20, 1995, by and
           among the Company, Signet Star Holdings, Inc., Signet Star
           Reinsurance Company, Signet Reinsurance Company and General Re
           Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 of the
           Company's current Report on Form 8-K (file No. 0-7849) filed with the
           Commission on September 28, 1995).

(3.1)      Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended

(3.2)      By-laws

(4)        The instruments defining the rights of holders of the long-term debt
           securities of the Company are omitted pursuant to Section
           (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Company agrees to
           furnish supplementally copies of these instruments to the Commission
           upon request.

(10.1)     The Company's 1982 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
           (File No. 2-98396) filed with the Commission on June 14, 1985).

(10.2)     The Company's 1992 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 28.1 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8
           (File No. 33-55726) filed with the Commission on December 15, 1992).

(10.2a)    Signet Star Holdings, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 10.14 of Signet Star Holdings, Inc. Registration
           Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-69964) filed with the Commission
           on October 4, 1993).

(10.2b)    First Amended and Restated W. R. Berkley Corporation 1992 Stock
           Option Plan.

(10.3)     The Company's lease dated June 3, 1983 with the Ahneman, Devaul and
           Devaul Partnership, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
           Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 2-98396) filed
           with the Commission on June 14, 1985.

(10.4)     W.R. Berkley Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for officers as
           amended January 1, 1991.

(10.5)     W. R. Berkley Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors as
           adopted March 7, 1996.

(10.6)     Sale Agreement by and between the Company and Lembo-Feinerman Fleming
           Morell Trust for the acquisition of real property.

(10.7)     W. R. Berkley Corporation Annual Incentive Compensation Plan.

(10.8)     W. R. Berkley Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan.



(13.1)     1997 Annual Report to Shareholders of W. R. Berkley Corporation (only
           those portions of such Annual Report that are incorporated by
           reference in this Report on Form 10-K are deemed filed herewith).

(21)       Following is a list of the Company's significant subsidiaries.
           Subsidiaries of subsidiaries are indented and the parent of each such
           corporation owns 100% of the outstanding voting securities of such
           corporation except as noted below.



(23)       See Independent Auditors' report on schedules and consent.

(28)       Information from reports furnished to state insurance regulatory
           authorities. This exhibit which will be filed supplementally includes
           the Company's combined Schedule P as prepared for its 1997 combined
           Annual Statement which will be provided to state regulatory
           authorities. The schedule has been prepared on a statutory basis. The
           combined schedule includes the historical results of the Company's
           insurance subsidiaries as if they had been owned from their inception
           date. It should be noted that the combined schedule includes data of
           seventeen operating companies and, as a result, any statistical
           extrapolation from the schedule may not be meaningful.

           (The combined Schedule P as filed with the Securities and Exchange
           Commission, has been omitted from this copy. It is available upon
           request from Mr. Anthony J. Del Tufo, Senior Vice President, Chief
           Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company, at the address shown
           on page 1.)



              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULES AND CONSENT


Board of Directors and Stockholders
W. R. Berkley Corporation




The audit referred to in our report dated February 25, 1998 included the related
financial statement schedules as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997 included in the Form
10-K. These financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statement schedules based on our audits. In our opinion, such
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

We consent to the use of our reports incorporated by reference in the
Registration Statements (No. 2-98396) on Form S-1 and (No. 33-55726) on Form S-8
and (No. 33-30684) and (No. 33-95552) and (No. 333-00459) on Forms S-3 and (No.
33-88640) and (No. 333-33935) on Forms S-8 of W. R. Berkley Corporation.

                                                           KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



New York, New York
March 23, 1998




                                                                     Schedule II


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                         Balance Sheets (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)




See note to condensed financial statements.



                                                          Schedule II, Continued


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued
                    Statements of Operations (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)






See note to condensed financial statements.



                                                          Schedule II, Continued

                            W. R. Berkley Corporation
            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued
                    Statement of Cash Flows (Parent Company)
                             (Amounts in thousands)



See note to condensed financial statements




                                                          Schedule II, Continued


                            W. R. Berkley Corporation

            Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, Continued

                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

             Note to Condensed Financial Statements (Parent Company)


         The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in
conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere herein. Reclassifications have been made in the 1996 and 1995
financial statements as originally reported to conform them to the presentation
of the 1997 financial statements.

         The Company files a consolidated federal tax return with the results of
its domestic insurance subsidiaries included on a statutory basis. Under present
Company policy, Federal income taxes payable by (or refundable to) subsidiary
companies on a separate-return basis are paid to (or refunded by) W. R. Berkley
Corporation, and the Company pays the tax due on a consolidated return basis.

         Included in fixed maturities available for sale and invested cash is
$113,207,000 and 3,221,000, respectively, of securities placed in a trust which
will be used to service the remaining outstanding shares of the Series A
Preferred Stock. The Company expects that the proceeds of the trust will be
utilized to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock.



                                                                    Schedule III

                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                       Supplementary Insurance Information
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                             (Amounts in thousands)







                                                                     Schedule IV


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
                                   Reinsurance
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                             (Amounts in thousands)








                                                                     Schedule VI


                   W. R. Berkley Corporation and Subsidiaries
   Supplementary Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                             (Amounts in thousands)








