
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
     (MARK ONE)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM    TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3619
 
                                  PFIZER INC.
 
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                                                        
 
                                             
              DELAWARE                                13-5315170            
   (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer Identification
   incorporation or organization)                     Number)
         235 East 42nd Street                          10017
         New York, New York                          (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)     
            (212) 573-2323                             
                                                       
              (Registrant's telephone number including area code)
                                                              
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                                                          
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
                            --------------------

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                            YES  [X]      NO  [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information
statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant computed by reference to the closing price at which the stock was
sold as of February 27, 1998 was approximately $114.7 billion.
 
  The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of
common stock as of February 27, 1998 was 1,298,734,466 shares of common stock,
all of one class.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders           Parts I, II and
                                                             IV
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders
                                                             Parts I, III, and
                                                             IV
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                

 

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
  Pfizer Inc. (the Company, which may be referred to as we, us, or our) is a
research-based, global health care company. We discover, develop, manufacture
and sell innovative products that improve the quality of life of people around
the world and help them enjoy longer, healthier and more productive lives. Our
products are available in more than 150 countries.
 
  Our home page on the Internet is at www.pfizer.com. You can learn about the
Company by visiting that site.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
  We operate in three business segments:
 
 .  HEALTH CARE, which includes prescription pharmaceuticals, bone and joint
   devices; specialty medical instruments and implants; and products for
   treating heart diseases and other disorders;
 
 .  ANIMAL HEALTH, which includes antiparasitics, anti-infectives, anti-
   inflammatory medicines and vaccines for livestock, poultry and pets; and
 
 .  CONSUMER HEALTH CARE, which includes a variety of over-the-counter
   medications and personal care products.
 
  These businesses derive synergies in certain research and regulatory matters,
but each requires different marketing and distribution strategies. Comparative
segment revenues, profits and related financial information for 1997, 1996 and
1995 are given in the table entitled Segment Information on page 59 of our 1997
Annual Report. A graph captioned Total Revenues by Business Segment and tables
captioned Percentage Change in Total Revenues and Segment Profit on pages 29,
30 and 33 respectively, of the Annual Report give segment information over the
past three years. The information from those sections of the Annual Report is
considered to be incorporated in this 1997 10-K report.
 
  Note that throughout this 10-K report, we "incorporate by reference" certain
information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by
referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information.
 
  Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the markets where we operate
around the world. In the U.S., the main regulatory authority we deal with is
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and
efficacy of the products we offer, our research quality, our manufacturing
processes and our promotion and advertising. Similar government authorities act
in most other countries, and in many cases also regulate our prices. See
Government Regulation and Price Constraints, below.
 
HEALTH CARE SEGMENT
 
  Our Health Care segment is comprised of two business groups: the Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals Group and the Medical Technology Group. The Medical Technology
Group used to be called the "Hospital Products Group."
 
Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group
 
  In 1997, we combined our U.S. and international pharmaceutical operations
into a consolidated Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group.
 
  Most of our pharmaceutical sales come from products in three major
therapeutic classes: cardiovascular diseases, infectious diseases and central
nervous system disorders. We also have products for treatment of diabetes,
allergies, urogenital disorders and arthritis. In 1997, pharmaceuticals
contributed 74% of our revenues, as compared to 72% in 1996 and 71% in 1995.
1997 sales of our major pharmaceutical products--Norvasc, Zoloft, Diflucan,
Procardia XL, Zithromax, Cardura and Zyrtec--comprised 57.1% of our revenues.
 
  Cardiovascular disease products that treat problems affecting the heart and
the blood circulatory system are our largest therapeutic product line,
accounting for roughly 30% of our revenues. Norvasc, our largest-selling
product, is a once-a-day medication for hypertension (high blood pressure) and
angina (heart pain). It belongs to the class of drugs known as calcium channel
blockers. It became the largest-selling high blood pressure medicine worldwide
in 1997 based on sales

 
revenues. Our other cardiovascular products include Procardia XL, also a once-
a-day calcium channel blocker for hypertension and angina, and Cardura, which
is in the alpha blocker class of medications, and is used to treat hypertension
and benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate gland). Sales of Procardia
XL continued to decrease during 1997, in part due to the product's maturity and
the medical community's emphasis on the more advanced Norvasc. Procardia XL
remains one of the largest-selling hypertension medicines in the U.S.
nonetheless.
 
  In 1997, we participated in the launch of Lipitor, for treatment of high
lipids (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the bloodstream, under co-promotion
and license arrangements with the Parke-Davis Research Division of Warner-
Lambert Company, which discovered the drug. Following its introduction, Lipitor
surpassed several established competitors and, by the end of the year, was the
most-prescribed medicine in its category in the U.S. At the end of 1997,
Lipitor was being sold in the U.S. and fourteen other countries, and launches
are planned in more than a dozen additional countries in 1998.
 
  In the infectious disease medicine category, our major products are Zithromax
and Diflucan. Zithromax is an oral or injectable antibiotic in the chemical
class known as macrolides. In 1997, it became the most widely-prescribed brand-
name oral antibiotic in the U.S. It treats a broad range of infections. Its
sales increased in 1997 in part due to the 1996 regulatory approval for its
treatment of additional medical indications. Diflucan is used to treat various
fungal infections, including vaginal infections and certain infections that
afflict AIDS and cancer patients with weakened immune systems. Our new product
Trovan is a once-daily oral dose antibiotic also available in intravenous form.
It belongs to the class of chemical compounds known as quinolones, and treats a
broad range of infections. It was approved for marketing by the FDA in late
1997, and European regulatory review is advancing. Shipments of the drug began
in January 1998.
 
  For treatment of central nervous system disorders, we offer Zoloft and
participate in the promotion of Aricept. Zoloft is used for treatment of
depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and panic disorder. It is our second-
largest selling product. Sales grew in 1997 in part from recent approvals for
its use to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder and panic disorder. We
participated in the 1997 launch of Aricept for treatment of mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer's disease patients. The drug was discovered and developed by Eisai
Co., Ltd., a Japanese company, which contracted with us to co-promote and
license the product. It quickly became the largest-selling medicine for
treatment of Alzheimer's in the U.S. Aricept substantially expanded the prior
market for pharmaceutical treatment of that disease. It is now sold in the
U.S., Canada, the U.K. and several other countries. Launches are planned in
more than a dozen additional countries in 1998.
 
  Our other major pharmaceutical products include Zyrtec, which is used for the
treatment of allergies and related problems. Zyrtec is licensed to us by the
Belgian company, UCB S.A., for sales in the U.S. and Canada. We co-promote
Zyrtec in the U.S. with a subsidiary of UCB S.A.
 
  Prospective new products under development are discussed in the section below
entitled Research and Product Development.
 
Medical Technology Group
 
  Medical Technology, formerly known as Hospital Products, consisted of the
following businesses in 1997:
 
  . Howmedica,
 
  . Schneider/NAMIC,
 
  . American Medical Systems, and
 
  . Valleylab.
 
  In 1997, the sales of our Medical Technology Group accounted for 12% of our
revenues, compared with 13% in each of 1996 and 1995.
 
  Howmedica manufactures and markets orthopedic implants for bones and joints
in the body and related reconstructive products. Its products include hip and
knee implants, bone cement, trauma products, internal and external devices to
hold bones in position, implantable devices used in oral, facial and skull
surgery, and specialty surgical instruments.
 
  Schneider/NAMIC is a worldwide manufacturer and supplier of catheters
(tubular devices inserted into body passageways to provide access for other
devices or the injection or withdrawal of fluids),
 

 
stents (wire mesh-like tubes to keep open arteries and other hollow passageways
in the body) for blood vessels and other applications and related single-
patient-use medical products. Its products are used in the diagnosis and
treatment of cardiovascular and other disorders of the body's ducts and hollow
passageways, including clearing blockages of blood vessels caused by the
buildup of plaque.
 
  American Medical Systems manufactures and markets impotence and incontinence
implants, as well as other products used in the treatment of urological
disorders.
 
  Valleylab, a surgical system and instrumentation business, was sold in
January 1998. In February 1998, we announced that we are exploring strategic
options for the remaining three businesses. These options include the possible
divestiture of all or part of those businesses in a public or private
transaction.
 
ANIMAL HEALTH SEGMENT
 
  Our Animal Health Group discovers, develops, manufactures and sells animal
health products for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock,
poultry and pets. We are a significant manufacturer of antibiotics,
antiparasitics, vaccines and related products for livestock and pets. In 1995,
we acquired the SmithKline Beecham Animal Health business, a leading producer
of animal vaccines and pet products. That acquisition essentially doubled the
revenues of our Animal Health Group, and complemented the products, target
animal species and geographic sales coverage of our previous business. In 1997
and 1996, Animal Health sales accounted for approximately 11% of our overall
revenues, compared with 12% in 1995.
 
  Our leading Animal Health product in 1997 was Dectomax, a treatment for
internal and external parasites, primarily in cattle. Its sales increased in
part due to the growth of the injectable formulation, and the introduction of a
pour-on formulation in the U.S. and some international markets. It provides
longer protection against a broader spectrum of parasites than many other
products. During the year, we introduced Rimadyl, a non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory for treatment of osteoarthritis in dogs. In its first year of
sales, Rimadyl became a leading-selling animal health care product in the U.S.
Also in 1997, we acquired worldwide rights to market Anipryl, a treatment for
dogs suffering from Cushing's disease. It has also been approved in Canada for
treatment of canine cognitive dysfunction, and U.S. approval is being sought.
 
  The other principal products of our Animal Health Group are Stafac, a feed
additive for poultry, cattle and swine; Terramycin LA-200, an injectable
version of the Terramycin broad-spectrum antibiotic used for various animal
diseases; our Banminth, Nemex, Valbazen and Paratect products to treat internal
parasites; Coxistac and Aviax anticoccidials to treat parasitic infection in
poultry; Mecadox, an antibacterial for pigs; and Advocin, for treating
respiratory and digestive system diseases in livestock and poultry. We also
manufacture and sell an extensive line of cattle, swine and pet vaccines
including BoviShield, RespiSure, Leukocell and Vanguard.
 
CONSUMER HEALTH CARE SEGMENT
 
  Our Consumer Health Care products include non-prescription over-the-counter
(OTC) medications, therapeutic skin care products and personal care products.
Among our better-known OTC brands in the U.S. are:
 
 + Visine eyedrops
 
 + Ben Gay topical analgesics
 
 + Cortizone hydrocortisone skin cream
 
 + Rid anti-lice products
 
 + Unisom sleep aids
 
 + Desitin ointments
 
 + Hemorid hemorrhoidal treatment
 
 + Bain de Soleil skin care products
 
 + Plax pre-brushing dental rinse
 
 + Barbasol shave creams and gels
 
Several product-line extensions building on these brands have been introduced
in recent years. Other products are sold only in selected international
markets. In each of the past three years, sales of the Consumer Health Group
accounted for 4% of our overall revenues.
 
  Our Consumer Health Care business offers an opportunity to expand sales of
some of our prescription medications by evolving them to OTC
 

 
medications. For example, an OTC formulation of Diflucan known as Diflucan One
is sold in the U.K. as a treatment for vaginal candidiasis. Similarly, Zyrtec
is sold as an OTC product in Canada under the brand name Reactine. As market
conditions permit, and when we have necessary approval from drug regulatory
authorities, we plan to pursue similar launches for other products over time.
 
RESEARCH AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
  Innovation by our research and development operations is very important to
the success of our businesses. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to
market innovative products that address major unmet health care needs. This
goal has been supported by our substantial research and development
investments. We spent approximately $1.4 billion in 1995, $1.7 billion in 1996,
and $1.9 billion in 1997 on Company-sponsored research and development. In
1998, we anticipate investing more than $2 billion on research and development.
 
  We are planning for future growth of our research operations. Current
construction at our three major international research centers will add
approximately one million square feet of laboratory space. Other research
facilities are also being added or expanded.
 
  We conduct research internally, and also through contracts with third
parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies,
and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical and medical products firms. We
also seek out innovative technologies developed by third parties to acquire or
incorporate into our product lines through licensing or other arrangements.
 
  Drug and medical product development is time consuming, expensive and
unpredictable. On average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds
discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough
to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory
approval can take more than ten years. Some candidates fail at each stage of
the process, and even late-stage product candidates could fail to receive
regulatory approval.
 
  In view of the limited period of patent protection, and to gain the marketing
advantage of being first to market in a particular therapeutic category, we try
to be efficient as well as careful in our new product development. We strive to
minimize delays in handling new product candidates and look for opportunities,
such as contracting studies to outside researchers, to move development forward
efficiently.
 
  We feel that our investments in research have been rewarded by the number of
pharmaceutical compounds and new therapies we have in all stages of
development. In recent years, our discovery scientists have delivered dozens of
new chemical compounds to early evaluation drug development stages. While each
new candidate is far from regulatory approval, and many compounds fail at every
step of the process, new drug candidates are a foundation for future products.
A table and discussion of supplemental filings for existing products and drug
candidates in development is set out under the heading Product Developments on
page 32 of our 1997 Annual Report. That table and discussion are incorporated
here by reference.
 
  Our research operations also strive to add extra value to our existing
products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses for them.
In 1997, the FDA approved the following additional uses for current products,
which illustrate this strategy:
 
  + Zoloft for the treatment of:
 
          + panic disorder and
 
          + obsessive-compulsive disorder in children 6 to 17 years of age,
 
  + Zithromax for treatment of pneumonia and pelvic inflammatory disease, and
 
  + Unasyn for treatment of skin infections in children.
 
  Our competitors also devote substantial sums and resources to research and
development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in our industry
has created additional companies with substantial research and development
resources. The competition fostered by the fruits of this research could result
in erosion of sales and unanticipated product obsolescence.
 
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
  We have significant operations outside the United States. They are conducted
both through our subsidiaries and through distributors, and generally
 

 
involve the same three business segments as our U.S. operations.
 
  Japan is our second-largest single national market, accounting for over a
billion dollars in revenues, almost 9% of our total. No other single country
outside the U.S. had revenues approaching 10% of our total. Our aggregate sales
to European Community countries, however, were about 20% of our revenues.
 
  Refer to the table Geographic Data on page 59 of our 1997 Annual Report for a
breakdown of revenues by major geographic areas. That information is
incorporated here by reference.
 
  Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of
risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include:
 
 .  currency fluctuations,
 
 .  capital and exchange control regulations,
 
 .  expropriation and nationalization, and
 
 .  other restrictive government actions.
 
  Many international markets are also subject to government-imposed constraints
that affect our businesses, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use
of our products. See the section below Government Regulation and Price
Constraints for discussion of those matters.
 
  In 1997, currency devaluations relative to the U.S. dollar reduced our
reported revenues in many countries. Depending on the nature of the change in
value relative to the U.S. dollar, changes in foreign currency values can
either improve or reduce the reported dollar value of our net assets and
results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty future changes in
foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us. We attempt to
anticipate such changes, however, and we try to mitigate their effects. See
Note 5-D to our financial statements, Derivative Financial Instruments, on
pages 47 to 49 in our Annual Report. That discussion is incorporated here by
reference. Related information about valuation and risks associated with such
financial instruments in parts E and F of that same Note is also incorporated
here by reference.
 
MARKETING
 
  In our global pharmaceuticals and medical technology businesses, we promote
our products to health care providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners and
hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and Managed Care Organizations
(MCOs). We also market directly to consumers in the United States through
direct-to-consumer (DTC) print and television advertising. In addition, we
sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical
research.
 
  Our operations include several pharmaceutical sales organizations. Each sales
organization markets a distinct group of products. Our U.S. pharmaceutical
sales representatives total approximately 4,100, and we are adding several
hundred additional representatives to complete a new sales force. Overseas
operations employ about 10,000 sales representatives.
 
  Our pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also
sell directly to retailers, including hospitals, clinics, government agencies
and pharmacies.
 
  Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses and
advantages of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access to
MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products
compiled by pharmacists and physicians) by demonstrating the qualities and
treatment benefits of our products. We also work with MCOs to assist them with
disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical
treatment routines.
 
  Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals depends to a degree on complex
decisions about the scope of clinical trials made years before product
approval. All drugs must complete clinical trials required by regulatory
authorities to show they are safe and effective for treating one or more
particular medical problems. A manufacturer may choose, however, to undertake
additional studies to demonstrate additional advantages of a compound, such as
a better safety profile or greater cost effectiveness than existing therapies.
 
  Those studies can be costly, the results are uncertain, and they can take
years to complete. Balancing these considerations makes it difficult to decide
whether and when to undertake such additional studies. But, when they are
successful,
 

 
such studies can have a major impact on approved claims and marketing
strategies.
 
  Our medical technology businesses have their own respective sales forces.
Medical technology products generally are sold directly to medical
institutions, but distributors and dealers provide supplementary sales
channels.
 
  Separate sales organizations are used by our Animal Health business to
promote its products. Its advertising and promotion are generally targeted to
health professionals, directly and through medical journals. Animal health and
nutrition products are sold through veterinarians, drug wholesalers,
distributors, retail outlets and directly to users, including feed
manufacturers and animal producers. Where appropriate, these products are also
marketed through print and television advertising.
 
  Our Consumer Health Care business around the world uses its own
representatives to promote its products. This business uses substantial print
and television consumer advertising for its brand-name products. Those products
are sold through various retailers.
 
  During 1997, health care sales to McKesson Corporation, a pharmaceutical and
health care products wholesaler, accounted for approximately 10% of our total
revenues and almost 12% of our Health Care segment revenues. Sales to McKesson
and our three other largest wholesalers in 1997 accounted for 34% of our total
revenues. Those sales were concentrated in the Health Care segment. Our
Consumer Health Care segment's 1997 sales to WalMart represented approximately
16% of our U.S. Consumer Health sales. Apart from these instances, none of our
business segments is dependent on any one or group of related customers.
 
PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
 
  Our products are sold around the world under brand-name trademarks we
consider in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection
continues in some countries as long as the mark is used; in other countries, as
long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable,
terms.
 
  We own or are licensed under a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These
patents cover:
 
 .  pharmaceutical and medical technology products,
 
 .  pharmaceutical formulations,
 
 .  product manufacturing processes, and
 
 .  intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.
 
In 1997, neither the amounts we paid for license rights, nor amounts we
received in connection with licenses granted by us to third parties, were
material to our operations as a whole.
 
  Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the
date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various
countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded
by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of
patent, the scope of its coverage, and the availability of legal remedies in
the country.
 
  In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to
our businesses in the United States and most other countries. Based on current
product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by
others, the only patent rights we consider significant in relation to our
business as a whole are those for Norvasc, Zoloft, Diflucan, Procardia XL and
Zithromax. Our basic U.S. patents relating to Norvasc, Zoloft and Diflucan
expire between 2004 and 2007.
 
  Procardia XL employs a novel sustained release drug delivery system developed
and patented by Alza Corporation. We hold an exclusive license to use this
delivery system with the active ingredient in Procardia XL until 2003. Other
companies also offer sustained-release forms of that ingredient or have filed
applications with the FDA seeking approval of such products. One such product
that has been approved has not been rated by the FDA to be appropriate for
substitution in place of Procardia XL. Another product filed with the FDA for
approval in 1997 uses a form of the active ingredient that we believe infringes
our patented technology, and we have sued to prevent that improper use. Yet
another product was filed for FDA approval in February 1998, and also appears
to infringe our patented technology. (See the discussion of these matters in
 

 
Item 3 below. Also see the discussion below about Procardia XL sales in the
section Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results.) It is not possible
to predict the timing and impact on sales of Procardia XL of competition from
other products.
 
  Zithromax is patented by Pliva, a Croatian pharmaceutical company. The drug
is licensed exclusively to us by Pliva for sales and marketing in major
countries, and we purchase the compound in crude bulk form from Pliva. Pliva's
U.S. patent on Zithromax expires in 2005.
 
  We have other patent rights covering additional products that have smaller
sales revenues. The U.S. patent for one such pharmaceutical product expires in
1999. The U.S. patent on Cardura expires in 2000.
 
  We expect that the patents on some of our newest products and late-stage
product candidates could become significant to our business as a whole in the
future.
 
  The expiration of a product patent normally results in the loss of marketing
exclusivity for the covered product and, particularly in the U.S., can result
in a dramatic reduction in sales of the pioneering product. In some cases,
however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from:
 
 .  product manufacturing trade secrets;
 
 .  patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the
   active ingredients;
 
 .  patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and
 
 .  adaptation of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products.
 
  The effect of product patent expiration also depends upon:
 
 .  the nature of the market and the position of the product in it,
 
 .  the growth of the market,
 
 .  the complexities and economics of manufacture of the product, and
 
 .  the requirements of generic drug laws.
 
  One of the main limitations on our operations in some other countries is the
lack of effective intellectual property protection of our products. Under
international agreements in recent years, protection of intellectual property
rights has been improving somewhat internationally. Pursuant to the North
American Free Trade Agreement, Mexico improved its patent law to provide patent
protection to pharmaceutical products. The General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade requires participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws
to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by the end of a ten-
year transition period. A number of countries are doing this. We have
experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations. Our
continued and expanded business in those countries depends to a large degree on
continuing that improvement.
 
COMPETITION
 
  Competition is intense in all of our businesses, and includes many large and
small competitors. No single company competes with us in all of our businesses,
however.
 
  The principal means of competition vary among product categories and business
groups. Technological innovations affecting:
 
 .  efficacy,
 
 .  safety,
 
 .  patients' ease of use, and
 
 .  cost effectiveness
 
are important to success in all of our businesses. Our businesses also focus on
unmet medical needs and improving therapies. Our emphasis on innovation has led
to our multi-billion dollar research and development investments over the past
decade.
 
  Our pharmaceutical business competes with worldwide research-based drug
companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus,
and generic drug manufacturers. Our pharmaceutical operations are among the
largest in the world, although there are other companies that have greater
sales and more employees.
 
  In recent years, a comparison of the total cost of medical treatments using
pharmaceuticals versus alternative treatments for the same condition has become
an important basis of competition. Managed
 

 
Care Organizations and Pharmacy Benefit Managers look to cost advantages as
well as medical benefits in making their drug formulary decisions.
 
  Our pharmaceutical sales and marketing organization has proven to be a
valuable competitive asset. Our salespeople's ability to reach medical
professionals with information about our products helps us respond to
competitive efforts and launch new products.
 
  Our Medical Technology Group's competitors include many companies of various
sizes and resources. Consolidations of companies in this business have
increased the combined firms' overall market positions. We have made strategic
changes in response to those market conditions by expanding some of our product
lines through acquisitions and by divestitures of businesses that no longer had
a strategic fit.
 
  We have a significant presence in the animal health marketplace, but many
other companies offer competitive products. Altogether, there are hundreds of
producers of animal health products throughout the world. The principal methods
of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product. They include:
 
 .  product innovation,
 
 .  service,
 
 .  price,
 
 .  quality, and
 
 .  effective promotion to veterinary professionals and consumers.
 
  We promote our products directly through our sales representatives as well as
through advertising.
 
  Many other companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more
products that are similar to our consumer health care products. The principal
methods of competition in the OTC market include:
 
 .  product quality,
 
 .  advertising and promotion,
 
 .  product innovation,
 
 .  broad distribution capabilities,
 
 .  customer satisfaction, and
 
 .  price.
 
  Heavy expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing are generally
required to achieve consumer acceptance of consumer health care products.
 
  In the current environment of competitive pressures on profit margins, we
continue efforts to control the growth of our expenses. Although research and
development budgets have grown significantly, in other areas such as
manufacturing, distribution and sales administration, we have kept our costs
down by restructuring and consolidating facilities. These measures have brought
us new efficiencies and reduced or contained our operating expenses.
 
Managed Care Organizations
 
  The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) has been a major factor in
the competitive make-up of the health care marketplace. Over half the U.S.
population now participates in some version of managed care. Because of the
size of the patient population covered by MCOs, marketing of prescription drugs
to them and the Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) that serve many of those
organizations has become important to our business.
 
  MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators,
health-maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and
other physician organizations. The purchasing power of MCOs has been increasing
in recent years due to their growing numbers of enrolled patients. At the same
time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger
entities. This enhances their purchasing strength and importance to us.
 
  A major objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce health
care expenditures. They typically use volume purchases and long-term contracts
to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical and medical device providers. They
use their purchasing power to bargain for lower supplier prices. They also
emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment, and procedures
performed at doctors' offices and clinics. Hospitalization and surgery,
typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed.
 
  As discussed above in Marketing, MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies
to reduce their
 

 
cost for medications and medical devices. Formularies can be based on the
prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower
initial cost, generic medicines may be favored. The breadth of the products
covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many
formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of
particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients'
use of products listed on their formularies.
 
  Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage
in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical and medical device
companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible,
companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products,
such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A
lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that
demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based
primarily on price.
 
  The growth of MCOs also appears to have led to greater usage of some drugs.
Certain drugs can avoid the need for more costly treatments such as
hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery. Because of these
advantages, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments. In addition,
the current trend of some patients to opt for managed care alternatives to
Medicare may increase overall pharmaceutical usage among that elderly
population. Medicare generally does not pay for medicines, so the patients must
bear that cost. MCOs, however, often offer significant drug benefits for their
participants.
 
  These developments have not only created pressure on prices, but also have
increased sales of products on formularies. We have been generally, although
not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO
formularies.
 
  Another way we address the interests of MCOs is by developing disease
management programs. These programs can be attractive to MCOs by improving
patient communications and compliance with dosage directions, which are
important for effective disease treatment. They can help MCOs address various
aspects of disease management, such as prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
certain diseases, including use of pharmaceutical products. This comprehensive
approach can improve the quality of care and lower costly complications of
chronic diseases.
 
Generic Products
 
  One of the biggest competitive challenges we face in the U.S. is from generic
pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration of U.S. patent protection on
an important product, we can lose the major portion of U.S. sales of the
product within a year. Generic competitors operate without our large research
and development expenses and our costs of conveying medical information about
the product to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process
exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate
their safety and efficacy, and allows generic manufacturers to rely on the
safety and efficacy of the pioneer product. Generic products need only
demonstrate a level of availability in the blood stream equivalent to that of
the pioneer product. This means that after we have borne the expenses of
discovering, developing and testing a medicine for safety and efficacy,
obtaining regulatory approval and informing the medical community about its
therapeutic benefits, generic competitors can charge much less for a competing
version of our product and still be profitable.
 
  As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs may
favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use
of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their health care programs,
including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some
cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated
under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to a brand-name
drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly
forbids it in accordance with applicable procedures.
 
  Some of our competitors who produce patented pharmaceuticals have entered the
generic market; in some cases offering generic versions of their own brand-name
products. We have not followed that strategy. Instead, we focus our resources
on developing and marketing innovative new products and treatments.
 

 
RAW MATERIALS
 
  Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the
ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these
materials are widely available from multiple sources. No serious shortages or
delays were encountered in 1997, and none are expected in 1998.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRICE CONSTRAINTS
 
  Pharmaceutical and medical device companies are subject to heavy regulation
by a number of national, state and local agencies. Of particular importance is
the FDA in the United States. It has jurisdiction over all our businesses and
administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, approval,
manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. In some cases, FDA
requirements and/or reviews have increased the amount of time and money
necessary to develop new products and bring them to market.
 
  The FDA also regulates our consumer health care business and, along with the
U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency, animal
health products. Some regulatory actions pertaining to our products are
discussed in Item 3 of this report.
 
  In 1995, the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) instituted a new
"centralized" drug-approval process for the member states of the European Union
(EU). This centralized procedure supplements the traditional decentralized
approach and allows for a single central approval that is valid in all EU
member countries. To the extent the EMEA establishes a harmonized, centralized
regulatory authority for Europe, our businesses operating there should benefit.
The EMEA does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing
matters in EU member countries, however. We will continue to deal with
individual countries on such issues.
 
  In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress
and in some state legislatures that would effect major changes in the affected
health care systems. Some states have passed such legislation, and further
federal and state proposals are possible. These could include price or patient
reimbursement constraints on medicines and restrictions on access to certain
products. Similar issues have also arisen in many foreign countries where we do
business. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, but we will work
to maintain patient access to our products and to oppose price constraints.
 
  Also in the U.S., proposals have called for substantial changes in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. If such changes are enacted, they may require
significant reductions from currently projected expenditures. Driven by budget
concerns, Medicaid managed care systems have been under consideration in
several states. If the Medicare and Medicaid programs implement changes that
restrict the access of a significant population of patients to our innovative
medicines, our business could be materially affected. On the other hand,
relatively little pharmaceutical use is currently covered by Medicare. As noted
above, if changes to these programs shift patients to MCOs that cover
pharmaceuticals, usage of pharmaceuticals could increase.
 
  Legislation in the U.S. requires us to give rebates to state Medicaid
agencies based on each state's reimbursement of pharmaceutical products under
the Medicaid program. We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or
reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state
agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates on page 30 of our
1997 Annual Report for details on the cost to us of such discounts and rebates,
which is incorporated here by reference.
 
  We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other
countries. For example, in 1997, Japan announced a price reduction on drugs. In
Europe and some other international markets, the government provides health
care at low direct cost to consumers, and regulates pharmaceutical prices or
patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored
health care system.
 
  This international patchwork of price regulation has led to inconsistent
prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with low prices.
Such "parallel trade" exploiting price differences between countries can
undermine our sales in markets with higher prices.
 
  We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other regulatory and
enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade
 

 
Commission and the Department of Justice in the U.S., and are, therefore,
subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by those
organizations. Such actions may include product recalls, seizures and other
civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, we have initiated product recalls
voluntarily.
 
  It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding
legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW COMPLIANCE
 
  Most of our manufacturing and certain research operations are affected by
federal, state and local environmental laws. These laws relate to the discharge
of materials or otherwise to the protection of the environment. We have made,
and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with
applicable laws. We are also cleaning up environmental contamination from past
industrial activity at certain sites (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below). As
a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 1997 for
environmental protection and clean-up of certain past industrial activity as
follows:
 
 .  environmental-related capital expenditures, $55 million;
 
 .  other environmental-related expenses, $67 million.
 
  While we cannot predict with certainty the future costs of such clean up
activities, capital expenditures, or operating costs for environmental
compliance, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
YEAR 2000 COMPUTER SYSTEMS COMPLIANCE
 
  Many older computer software programs refer to years in terms of their final
two digits only. Such programs may interpret the year 2000 to mean the year
1900 instead. If not corrected, those programs could cause date-related
transaction failures.
 
  We developed a Compliance Assurance Process to address this problem. A
project team has performed a detailed assessment of all internal computer
systems and is developing and implementing plans to correct the problems. Year
2000 problems affect many of our research and development, production,
distribution, financial, administrative and communication operations. Systems
critical to our business which have been identified as non-Year 2000 compliant
are either being replaced or corrected through programming modifications. In
addition, a separate team is looking at Year 2000 readiness from other aspects
of our business, including customer order-taking, manufacturing, raw materials
supply and plant process equipment. Outside companies such as vendors, major
customers, service suppliers, communications providers and banks are being
asked to verify their Year 2000 readiness and we are testing such systems where
appropriate. We expect these projects to be successfully completed during 1999.
 
  External and internal costs specifically associated with modifying internal
use software for Year 2000 compliance are expensed as incurred. To this point,
those costs have not been material. Costs to be incurred over the next two
years to fix Year 2000 problems are estimated at approximately $40 million.
Such costs do not include normal system upgrades and replacements. Based on our
current plans and efforts to date, we expect that there will be no material
harm to our operations.
 
CORPORATE/FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES
 
  We conduct international banking operations through a subsidiary, Pfizer
International Bank Europe (PIBE), based in Dublin, Ireland. PIBE, incorporated
under the laws of Ireland, operates under a banking license from the Central
Bank of Ireland. It makes loans and accepts deposits in several currencies in
international markets. PIBE is an active Euromarket lender to high quality
corporations and governments through its portfolio of loans and money market
instruments. Loans are made primarily on a short and medium term basis,
typically with floating interest rates.
 
  We also own an insurance operation, The Kodiak Company Limited, which
reinsures certain assets, inland transport and marine cargo of our
international operations. Financial data for these subsidiaries are set out in
Note 3 to our financial statements, Financial Subsidiaries, on page 46 in our
1997 Annual Report, which is incorporated here by reference.
 

 
TAX MATTERS
 
  The discussion of tax-related matters (including certain proceedings
involving proposed tax adjustments relating to prior years) in Note 8 to our
financial statements, Taxes on Income, on pages 49 through 51 in the Annual
Report is incorporated here by reference.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success.
We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31,
1997, we employed approximately 49,200 people in our operations throughout the
world. Geographically, this total breaks down as follows:
 
 .  United States, 20,700;
 
 .  Europe, 14,400;
 
 .  Asia, 7,700;
 
 .  Canada/Latin America, 5,000; and
 
 .  Africa/Middle East, 1,400.
 
CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
 
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995)
 
Our disclosure and analysis in this report and in our 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can
identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate,"
"expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," and other words and terms of
similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or
financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to
future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance
or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the
outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results. From
time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in
other materials we release to the public.
 
Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report, in the 1997 Annual
Report and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong.
They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion
above--for example, government regulations around the world, generic product
competition and the competitive environment--will be important in determining
future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed.
Actual future results may vary materially.
 
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are
advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related
subjects in our 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we
provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and
possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors
that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected
and historical results. Other factors besides those listed here could also
adversely affect the Company. This discussion is provided as permitted by the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
+ Balancing current growth and investment to fuel future growth remains a major
challenge. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and research
and development for future products could exceed corresponding sales growth.
This could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.
 
+ In the U.S., many of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing
price pressures as managed care groups, pharmacy benefit managers and
government agencies seek price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicare
and Medicaid expenses are expected to increase the use of managed care. This
may result in managed care influencing prescription decisions for a larger
segment of the population. International operations are also subject to price
and marketing regulations. As a result, it is expected that pressures on
pricing and operating results will continue and could affect future results.
 

 
+ Almost half our revenues arise from international operations, and revenues
and net income growth in 1998 are expected to be affected by changes in foreign
exchange rates. Revenues from Asia comprised approximately 13% of total
revenues in 1997 (although revenues from the Asian markets most impacted by
1997 currency devaluations--Korea, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Philippines
and Taiwan--comprised only 2% of 1997 total revenues).
 
  These foreign-based revenues as well as our substantial international assets
result in our exposure to currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our
interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to interest rate
change risk. The risks of such changes and the measures we have taken to help
contain those risks are discussed in the section entitled Financial Risk
Management on pages 37 and 38 in our 1997 Annual Report. For additional
details, see Note 5-D to our financial statements, Derivative Financial
Instruments, on pages 47 to 49 in our 1997 Annual Report. Those sections of the
Annual Report are incorporated here by reference.
 
  Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in
fiscal circumstances such as these, we cannot predict with certainty all
changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors
affecting our businesses. These factors could affect future results.
 
+ A new European currency is planned for introduction in January 1999 to
eventually replace the separate currencies of eleven western European
countries. This will entail changes in our operations as we modify systems and
commercial arrangements to deal with the new currency. Modifications will be
necessary in operations such as payroll, benefits and pension systems,
contracts with suppliers and customers and internal financial reporting
systems. Although a three-year transition period is expected during which
transactions may be made in the old currencies, this may require dual currency
processes for our operations. We have identified issues involved and are
developing and implementing solutions. The cost of this effort is not expected
to have a material effect on our business or results of operations. There is no
guarantee, however, that all problems will be foreseen and corrected, or that
no material disruption of our business will occur.
 
+ International operations could be affected by changes in intellectual
property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations, and procedures and
actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of
products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems,
intergovernmental disputes and possible nationalization.
 
+ Cost-containment measures employed by governments that have the effect of
limiting patient access to medicines and related issues described above in
Government Regulation and Price Constraints affect the growth and profitability
of our operations in some countries. Those factors could affect future results.
 
+ Business combinations among our competitors could affect our competitive
position in the pharmaceutical, medical technology, animal health and consumer
health care businesses. Similarly, combinations among our major customers could
increase their purchasing power in dealing with us. And, of course, if we
ourselves should enter into one or more business combinations, our business,
finances and capital structure could be affected.
 
+ Generic competition is a major challenge in the U.S. Loss of patent
protection typically leads to dramatic loss of sales in the U.S. market and
could affect future results.
 
+ Risks and uncertainties particularly apply with respect to product-related
forward-looking statements. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of
identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain.
Prospective products can fail to receive regulatory approval. There are also
many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical and medical
technology products around the world. Regulatory delays; the inability to
successfully complete clinical trials; claims and concerns about safety and
efficacy; new discoveries; patents and products by competitors and related
patent disputes; and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors
that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and
product-related forward-looking statements.
 

 
+ As discussed above in Marketing, decisions about research studies made early
in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on
the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. More detailed studies
may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they
consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for
initial approval. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no
guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case.
The quality of our decisions in this area can affect our future results.
 
+ Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing including, but
not limited to, the inability to build up production capacity commensurate with
demand, or the failure to predict market demand for or gain market acceptance
of approved products could affect future results.
 
+ We currently have two products, Norvasc and Zoloft, with annual sales
exceeding one billion dollars. Those products accounted for approximately 30%
of our 1997 revenues. If these or any of our other major products were to
become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, unexpected side
effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient
confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a new, more effective
treatment should be introduced, the impact on our revenues could be
significant.
 
+ We cannot always predict with accuracy the timing or impact of possible
future competition on sales of our products. For example, Procardia XL, our
patented form of sustained-release nifedipine, has been an important product
for us, but its sales have been declining, and we expect that to continue.
Sales of Procardia XL were $1,133 million in 1995, $1,005 million in 1996, and
$822 million in 1997. At least in part, this decline has been due to the
medical community's increased emphasis on our more advanced product, Norvasc.
It is also partly attributable to the fact that there has been another form of
sustained-release nifedipine available on the market since 1993, although it is
not approved for treatment of all the same indications as Procardia XL.
Additional potentially competitive products have been filed for FDA approval.
This indicates that the number of medicines that compete with Procardia XL may
increase, and the sales of competing products may affect our expected results.
 
+ During 1995, the authors of some non-clinical studies questioned the safety
of calcium channel blockers (CCBs). Although the clinical evidence supported
the safety of this class of medications, the FDA convened an advisory panel to
review their safety. In 1996, that advisory panel found no data to support
challenges to the safety of newer sustained-release and intrinsically long-
acting CCBs (such as our Norvasc and Procardia XL products for treatment of
hypertension and angina).
 
  Questions about this class of products have continued, however, and include
scientific publications and presentations asserting that these products may be
associated with various serious medical conditions.
 
  However, during 1997, emerging data and reviews by two national regulatory
authorities plus newly published National Institutes of Health (NIH) guidelines
were supportive of the safety of CCBs. In March 1997, Swedish regulatory
authorities concluded that the pertinent studies do not provide sufficient
evidence of any general association between use of CCBs and an increase in the
risk of cancer.
 
  Additionally, in July, Canadian authorities concluded that these medications
were safe and effective when used as indicated. Finally, in November, the NIH
published guidelines reflecting clinical recommendations for the treatment of
patients with hypertension which maintained that long-acting CCBs are useful
and appropriate first-line medications.
 
  We believe that the safety and effectiveness of Norvasc and Procardia XL are
supported by a large body of data from numerous studies and the daily clinical
experiences of physicians around the world. It is not possible, however, to
predict the impact, if any, of existing or future studies, regulatory agency
actions or a continuing debate regarding CCBs on our future sales.
 
+ Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product mix and the impact of
divestitures, restructuring and other unusual items that could result from
evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization, and
organizational restructuring could affect future results. For example, we may
be unable to continue
 

 
or maintain margin improvements achieved in recent years, which would affect
future results.
 
+ In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income
and SFAS No. 131, Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information, which become effective for our 1998 financial statements. SFAS No.
130 requires disclosure of comprehensive income, which consists of all changes
in equity from nonshareholder sources. SFAS No. 131 requires that a company
report information about its operating segments.
 
  The adoption of these statements will not impact our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. The effect of the adoption of
these statements will be limited to the form and content of our disclosures.
Since we currently disclose most of the information required under these
statements, we do not expect their adoption to materially change our current
disclosures.
 
  Such new or revised accounting standards and rules are issued from time to
time. Although the standards mentioned above are not expected to have a
material impact on our reported financial results, future standards and rules
could have such an effect.
 
+ As described above in the section Year 2000 Computer Systems Compliance, we
are working to address "Year 2000" problems. If we should fail to identify or
fix all such problems in our own operations, or if we are affected by the
inability of a sole-source supplier or a major customer (such as a large drug
wholesaler or distributor) to continue operations due to such a problem, our
operations and/or cash flows could be affected.
 
+ Changes in the U.S. Tax Code and the tax laws of other countries can affect
our net earnings. For example, pursuant to the Small Jobs Protection Act of
1996 (the Act), Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code was repealed for tax
years beginning after December 31, 1995. Section 936 had created the U.S.
possessions corporation income tax credit, which gave us tax benefits for
certain operations in Puerto Rico. The Act provided that as an existing credit
claimant, we are eligible to continue using the credit against the tax arising
from our manufacturing income earned in Puerto Rico for an additional ten-year
period. The amount of manufacturing income eligible for the credit during this
additional period is subject to a cap based on our prior years' income earned
in Puerto Rico. This ten-year extension does not apply to investment income
earned in Puerto Rico, the credit on which expired as of July 1, 1996. The Act
did not affect the amendments made to Section 936 by the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993, which provided for a five-year phase-down of the
U.S. possession tax credit from 100% to 40%. In addition, the Act extended the
R&D tax credit for eleven months effective July 1, 1996. In 1997, this credit
was extended to June 30, 1998.
 
+ Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries for various legal,
environmental and tax matters, and additional claims arise from time to time.
In addition, our operations are subject to international, federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations. It is possible that our cash flows
and results of operations could be affected by the one-time impact of the
resolution of these contingencies. We believe that the ultimate disposition of
current matters to the extent not previously provided for will not have a
material impact on our financial condition or cash flows and results of
operations, except where specifically commented upon in the discussion of such
matters in Legal Proceedings in Item 3 in this report, and in Tax Matters
above.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  Our world headquarters are located in several buildings in New York City. We
own two of these buildings, including our main 33-story office tower, and rent
space in others nearby. The 33-story office tower is located on a site we have
leased under a long-term ground lease. Altogether, our headquarters operations
occupy over one million square feet of owned and leased office space in New
York City.
 
  Our pharmaceutical business owns and leases space for sales and marketing,
administrative support, and customer service functions around the world.
 
  Our major research and development facilities are located in
manufacturing/R&D complexes that we own containing multiple buildings in
Groton, Connecticut and Sandwich, England. The buildings at our Groton facility
currently contain approximately three million square feet of floor space.
Approximately 1.2 million square feet is used
 

 
for manufacturing, and the rest is used for research and development. An
additional 550,000 square foot laboratory building, which is expected to house
approximately 700 new research employees, is currently under construction. The
Company also plans to begin construction in 1998 on an additional 400,000
square foot facility on a 24 acre site in nearby New London, Connecticut, to
house an initial 1,300 employees from the Company's research operations.
 
  Buildings on our 340 acre Sandwich, England campus house research, our U.K.
pharmaceutical sales office and a production plant. These facilities contain
almost two million square feet of floor space, approximately half of which is
used for research and development. An additional 540,000 square feet of new
research space is under construction.
 
  We own other important research facilities in Nagoya, Japan; Amboise, France;
and Terre Haute, Indiana. A number of smaller research and development
operations around the world focus principally on their local markets. As
discussed above, we have been expanding our research and development facilities
in recent years to meet the challenges of handling growing research activities.
Altogether in 1997, we commenced construction on over one million square feet
of research facilities at our sites in Groton, Sandwich and Nagoya.
 
  We have 28 production plants serving our pharmaceutical and animal health
operations around the world. Fifteen of these are major facilities. These
plants handle one or more of three basic types of production processes:
 
 .  fermentation,
 
 .  major synthesis, and
 
 .  drug product production.
 
  We have five major fermentation plants:
 
 .  Rixensart, Belgium;
 
 .  Sao Paulo, Brazil;
 
 .  Terre Haute, Indiana;
 
 .  Nagoya, Japan; and
 
 .  Sandwich, England.
 
  Our major drug synthesis facilities are in three locations:
 
 .  Groton, Connecticut;
 
 .  Ringaskiddy, Ireland; and
 
 .  Barceloneta, Puerto Rico.
 
  We have major product production plants at thirteen sites in eleven
countries:
 
  1. Sao Paulo, Brazil
 
  2. Dalian, China
 
  3. Sandwich, England
 
  4. Amboise, France
 
  5. Illertissen, Germany
 
  6. Chandigarh, India
 
  7. Latina, Italy
 
  8. Nagoya, Japan
 
  9. Toluca, Mexico
 
  10. Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, U.S.
 
  11. Brooklyn, New York, U.S.
 
  12. Terre Haute, Indiana, U.S., and
 
  13. Valencia, Venezuela
 
  Our Animal Health business has new world headquarters in leased offices one
block away from the Company's corporate headquarters in New York City. Animal
Health owns its North America headquarters in Exton, Pennsylvania, and leases
some additional space in a nearby office building. It also owns office space in
Zaventem, Belgium for support of its international operations.
 
  Most of Animal Health's research and manufacturing facilities are shared with
our pharmaceutical business. Its major manufacturing facilities are in:
 
 .  Lincoln, Nebraska;
 
 .  Lee's Summit, Missouri;
 
 .  London, Ontario, Canada; and
 
 .  Louvain la Neuve, Belgium
 
all of which are owned.
 
  Medical Technology has its headquarters in our New York corporate offices,
and sales offices around the world in mostly leased office facilities.
Howmedica is headquartered in owned and leased facilities in Rutherford, New
Jersey, where various production, research, and sales and marketing operations
are housed. Its Leibinger oral, facial and skull surgery device operation is
based in owned facilities in Freiburg, Germany. It also owns additional
manufacturing, research and marketing facilities in other locations in Germany,
France, Ireland and Switzerland. Schneider/NAMIC has
 

 
offices and major production facilities in Glens Falls, New York and Plymouth,
Minnesota, and additional production in Puerto Rico, Florida, Ireland and
Switzerland. The Glens Falls, Puerto Rico and Florida facilities are leased.
American Medical Systems has its headquarters in an owned building in
Minnetonka, Minnesota.
 
  Medical Technology has a technical resources group at our Groton, Connecticut
plant, but most of its businesses conduct their principal research at separate
facilities. Medical Technology's businesses have local sales, service and
distribution offices around the world, substantially all of which are leased.
 
  Our Consumer Health Care business has its principal executive offices in the
Company's world headquarters in New York. It owns its 450,000 square foot U.S.
product production facilities in Parsippany, New Jersey, which also houses its
principal research operations, and a plant in San Jose Iturbide, Mexico
producing hair care products primarily for the Mexican market. Its other
manufacturing facilities are owned, but are shared with and managed by our
pharmaceutical business. Consumer Health's sales and marketing offices are
generally leased and shared with local pharmaceutical sales offices, except in
Mexico and the U.K., where Consumer Health has separate offices.
 
  Our distribution operations are anchored by our large, state-of-the-art
distribution and order fulfillment operation in a 280,000 square foot building
on a 20 acre site in Memphis, Tennessee. This centrally-located U.S. facility
opened in 1995 and services the Company's pharmaceutical, Howmedica and
consumer health care business units and also houses some customer service
operations. Other U.S. distribution facilities for those operations are located
in Clifton and Parsippany, New Jersey and Irvine, California. The Animal Health
Group operates its own distribution facilities.
 
  In general, our properties are well maintained, adequate and suitable to
their purposes. The growth of our businesses has created space pressures for
certain operations, however. We have responded to such challenges with plans to
provide appropriate facilities as needs are demonstrated. Note 6 to our
financial statements, Property, Plant and Equipment on page 49 in our 1997
Annual Report, which discloses amounts invested in land, buildings and
equipment, and the discussion of investing activities under the heading Summary
of Cash Flows on page 35 of the Annual Report, which describes our capital
expenditures, are incorporated here by reference. See, also, the discussion
under Note 11 entitled Lease Commitments on page 52 of the Annual Report, which
is also incorporated here by reference.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The Company is involved in a number of claims and litigations, including
product liability claims and litigations considered normal in the nature of its
businesses. These include suits involving various pharmaceutical and hospital
products that allege either reaction to or injury from use of the product. In
addition, from time to time the Company is involved in, or is the subject of,
various governmental or agency inquiries or investigations relating to its
businesses.
 
  On June 9, 1997, the Company received notice of the filing of an Abbreviated
New Drug Application (ANDA) by Mylan Pharmaceuticals for a sustained release
nifedipine product asserted to be bioequivalent to Procardia XL. Mylan's notice
asserted that the proposed formulation does not infringe relevant licensed Alza
and Bayer patents and thus that approval of their ANDA should be granted before
patent expiration. On July 18, 1997, the Company, together with Bayer AG and
Bayer Corporation, filed a patent infringement suit against Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan Laboratories Inc. in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania with respect to Mylan's ANDA.
Suit was filed under Bayer AG's U.S. Patent No. 5,264,446, licensed to the
Company, relating to nifedipine of a specified particle size range. Mylan has
filed its answer denying infringement and a scheduling order has been entered.
Discovery is in progress. On or about February 23, 1998, Bayer AG received
notice that Biovail Laboratories Incorporated had filed an ANDA for a sustained
release nifedipine product asserted to be bioequivalent to Procardia XL. The
notice indicated that it was being sent to the Company as well. The notice
asserts that the Biovail product does not infringe Bayer's U.S. Patent No.
5,264,446. The notice is under review.
 

 
  Pfizer filed suit on July 8, 1997, against the FDA in the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia, seeking a declaratory judgment and
injunctive relief enjoining the FDA from processing Mylan's ANDA or any other
ANDA submission referencing Procardia XL that uses a different extended release
mechanism. Pfizer's suit alleges that extended release mechanisms that are not
identical to the osmotic pump mechanism of Procardia XL constitute different
dosage forms requiring the filing and approval of suitability petitions under
the Food Drug and Cosmetics Act before the FDA can accept an ANDA for filing.
Mylan intervened in Pfizer's suit. Oral arguments were heard on August 29,
1997. No decision has yet been issued.
 
  As previously disclosed, a number of lawsuits and claims have been brought
against the Company and Shiley Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary,
alleging either personal injury from fracture of 60(degrees) or 70(degrees)
Shiley Convexo Concave ("C/C") heart valves, or anxiety that properly
functioning implanted valves might fracture in the future, or personal injury
from a prophylactic replacement of a functioning valve.
 
  In an attempt to resolve all claims alleging anxiety that properly
functioning valves might fracture in the future, the Company entered into a
settlement agreement in January 1992 in Bowling v. Shiley, et al., a case
brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio,
that established a worldwide settlement class of people with C/C heart valves
and their spouses, except those who elect to exclude themselves. The settlement
provided for a Consultation Fund of $90 million, which was fixed by the number
of claims filed, from which valve recipients are receiving payments that are
intended to cover their cost of consultation with cardiologists or other health
care providers with respect to their valves. The settlement agreement
established a second fund of at least $75 million to support C/C valve-related
research, including the development of techniques to identify valve recipients
who may have significant risk of fracture, and to cover the unreimbursed
medical expenses that valve recipients may incur for certain procedures related
to the valves. The Company's obligation as to coverage of these unreimbursed
medical expenses is not subject to any dollar limitation. Following a hearing
on the fairness of the settlement, it was approved by the court on August 19,
1992 and all appeals have been exhausted.
 
  Generally, the plaintiffs in all of the pending heart valve litigations seek
money damages. Based on the experience of the Company in defending these claims
to date, including insurance proceeds and reserves, the Company is of the
opinion that these actions should not have a material adverse effect on the
financial position or the results of operations of the Company. Litigation
involving insurance coverage for the Company's heart valve liabilities has been
resolved.
 
  The Company's operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
environmental laws and regulations. Under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA" or
"Superfund"), the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible
party by the United States Environmental Protection Agency with respect to
certain waste sites with which the Company may have had direct or indirect
involvement. Similar designations have been made by some state environmental
agencies under applicable state superfund laws. Such designations are made
regardless of the extent of the Company's involvement. There are also claims
that the Company may be a responsible party or participant with respect to
several waste site matters in foreign jurisdictions. Such claims have been made
by the filing of a complaint, the issuance of an administrative directive or
order, or the issuance of a notice or demand letter. These claims are in
various stages of administrative or judicial proceedings. They include demands
for recovery of past governmental costs and for future investigative or
remedial actions. In many cases, the dollar amount of the claim is not
specified. In most cases, claims have been asserted against a number of other
entities for the same recovery or other relief as was asserted against the
Company. The Company is currently participating in remedial action at a number
of sites under federal, state, local and foreign laws.
 
  To the extent possible with the limited amount of information available at
this time, the Company has evaluated its responsibility for costs and related
liability with respect to the above sites and is of the opinion that the
Company's liability with respect to these sites should not have a material
adverse effect
 

 
on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company. In
arriving at this conclusion, the Company has considered, among other things,
the payments that have been made with respect to the sites in the past; the
factors, such as volume and relative toxicity, ordinarily applied to allocate
defense and remedial costs at such sites; the probable costs to be paid by the
other potentially responsible parties; total projected remedial costs for a
site, if known; existing technology; and the currently enacted laws and
regulations. The Company anticipates that a portion of these costs and related
liability will be covered by available insurance.
 
  The United States Environmental Protection Agency--Region I and the
Department of Justice have informed the Company that the federal government is
contemplating an enforcement action arising primarily out of a December 1993
multimedia environmental inspection, as well as certain state inspections, of
the Company's Groton, Connecticut facility. The Company is engaged in
discussions with the governmental agencies and does not believe that an
enforcement action, if brought, will have a material adverse effect on the
financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
  Through the early 1970s, Pfizer Inc. (Minerals Division) and Quigley Company,
Inc. ("Quigley"), a wholly owned subsidiary, sold a minimal amount of one
construction product and several refractory products containing some asbestos.
These sales were discontinued thereafter. Although these sales represented a
minor market share, the Company has been named as one of a number of defendants
in numerous lawsuits. These actions, and actions related to the Company's sale
of talc products in the past, claim personal injury resulting from exposure to
asbestos-containing products, and nearly all seek general and punitive damages.
In these actions, the Company or Quigley is typically one of a number of
defendants, and both are members of the Center for Claims Resolution (the
"CCR"), a joint defense organization of twenty defendants that is defending
these claims. The Company and Quigley are responsible for varying percentages
of defense and liability payments for all members of the CCR. A number of cases
alleging property damage from asbestos-containing products installed in
buildings have also been brought against the Company.
 
  On January 15, 1993, a class action complaint and settlement agreement were
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania involving all personal injury claims by persons who have been
exposed to asbestos-containing products but who have not yet filed a personal
injury action against the members of the CCR (Future Claims Settlement). The
District Court determined that the Future Claims Settlement was fair and
reasonable. Subsequently, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit reversed the order of the District Court and on June 27, 1997, the U.
S. Supreme Court affirmed the Third Circuit's order and decertified the class.
The overturning of the settlement is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company's exposure or on the availability of insurance for the vast
majority of such cases. It is expected, too, that the CCR will attempt to
resolve such cases in the same manner as heretofore.
 
  At approximately the time it filed the Future Claims Settlement class action,
the CCR settled approximately 16,360 personal injury cases on behalf of its
members, including the Company and Quigley. The CCR has continued to settle
remaining and opt-out cases and claims on a similar basis to past settlements.
As of January 31, 1998, there were 49,398 personal injury claims pending
against Quigley (excluding those which are inactive or have been settled in
principle), 18,695 such claims against the Company, and 68 talc cases against
the Company.
 
  The Company believes that its costs incurred in defending and ultimately
disposing of the asbestos personal injury claims, as well as the property
damage claims, will be largely covered by insurance policies issued by several
primary insurance carriers and a number of excess carriers that have agreed to
provide coverage, subject to deductibles, exclusions, retentions and policy
limits. Litigation is pending against several excess insurance carriers seeking
damages and/or declaratory relief to secure their coverage obligations. Based
on the Company's experience in defending the claims to date and the amount of
insurance coverage available, the Company is of the opinion that the actions
should not ultimately have a material adverse effect on the financial position
or the results of operations of the Company.
 

 
  The Company has been named, together with numerous other manufacturers of
brand name prescription drugs and certain companies that distribute brand name
prescription drugs, in suits in federal and state courts brought by various
groups of retail pharmacy companies. The federal cases consist principally of a
class action by retail pharmacies (including approximately 30 named plaintiffs)
(the "Federal Class Action"), as well as additional actions by approximately
3,500 individual retail pharmacies and a group of chain and supermarket
pharmacies (the "individual actions"). These cases, which have been transferred
to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois and
coordinated for pretrial purposes, allege that the defendant drug manufacturers
violated the Sherman Act by unlawfully agreeing with each other (and, as
alleged in some cases, with wholesalers) not to extend to retail pharmacy
companies the same discounts allegedly extended to mail order pharmacies,
managed care companies and certain other customers, and by unlawfully
discriminating against retail pharmacy companies by not extending them such
discounts. On November 15, 1994, the federal court certified a class (the
Federal Class Action) consisting of all persons or entities who, since October
15, 1989, bought brand name prescription drugs from any manufacturer or
wholesaler defendant, but specifically excluding government entities, mail
order pharmacies, HMOs, hospitals, clinics and nursing homes. Fifteen
manufacturer defendants, including the Company, agreed to settle the Federal
Class Action subject to court approval. The Company's share pursuant to an
Agreement as of January 31, 1996, was $31.25 million, payable in four annual
installments without interest. The Company continues to believe that there was
no conspiracy and specifically denied liability in the Settlement Agreement,
but had agreed to settle to avoid the monetary and other costs of litigation.
The settlement was filed with the Court on February 9, 1996 and went through
preliminary and final fairness hearings. By orders of April 4, 1996, the Court:
(1) rejected the settlement; (2) denied the motions of the manufacturers
(including the Company) for summary judgment; (3) granted the motions of the
wholesalers for summary judgment; and (4) denied the motion to exclude
purchases by other than direct purchasers. On August 15, 1997, the Court of
Appeals (1) reversed the denial of summary judgment for the manufacturers
excluding purchases by other than direct purchasers; (2) reversed the grant of
summary judgment dismissing the wholesalers; and (3) took action regarding
Alabama state cases, and DuPont Merck. The District Court has now set a trial
date of September 1998 for the trial of the class case against the non-
settlers, and has permitted the opt-out plaintiffs to add the wholesalers as
named defendants in their cases.
 
  In May 1996, thirteen manufacturer defendants, including the Company, entered
into an Amendment to the Settlement Agreement which was filed with the Court on
May 6, 1996. The Company's financial obligations under the Settlement Agreement
will not be increased. The Settlement Agreement, as amended, received final
approval June 21, 1996. Appeals from this decision were dismissed by the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in May 1997.
 
  Retail pharmacy cases have also been filed in state courts in Alabama,
California, Minnesota, Mississippi and Wisconsin. Pharmacy classes have been
certified in California. The Company's motion to dismiss was granted in the
Wisconsin case, and that dismissal is under appeal.
 
  Consumer class actions have been filed in Alabama, Arizona, California, the
District of Columbia, Florida, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, New York,
North Carolina, Tennessee, Washington and Wisconsin alleging injury to
consumers from the failure to give discounts to retail pharmacy companies. The
New York and Washington state cases were dismissed, and an appeal is pending in
New York. A case filed in Colorado state court was dismissed without appeal. A
consumer class has been certified in California, and a limited consumer class
has been certified in the District of Columbia. Class certification was denied
in the Michigan state case, and plaintiffs' subsequent petition for review was
denied. Class certification also was denied in the Maine case.
 
  The Company believes that these brand name prescription drug antitrust cases,
which generally seek damages and certain injunctive relief, are without merit.
 
  The Federal Trade Commission is conducting an investigation focusing on the
pricing practices at issue in the above pharmacy antitrust litigation. In July
1996, the Commission issued a subpoena for
 

 
documents to the Company, among others, to which the Company has responded. A
second subpoena was issued to the Company for documents in May 1997 and the
Company has responded. This investigation continues.
 
  FDA administrative proceedings relating to Plax are pending, principally an
industry-wide call for data on all anti-plaque products by the FDA. The call
for data notice specified that products that have been marketed for a material
time and to a material extent may remain on the market pending FDA review of
the data, provided the manufacturer has a good faith belief that the product is
generally recognized as safe and effective and is not misbranded. The Company
believes that Plax satisfied these requirements and prepared a response to the
FDA's request, which was filed on June 17, 1991. This filing, as well as the
filings of other manufacturers, is still under review and is currently being
considered by an FDA Advisory Committee.
 
  On January 15, 1997, an action was filed in Circuit Court, Chambers County,
Alabama, and certified by an ex parte order as a class action, purportedly on
behalf of a class of consumers, variously defined by the laws or types of laws
governing their rights and encompassing residents of up to 47 states. The
complaint alleges that the Company's claims for Plax were untrue, entitling
them to a refund of their purchase price for purchases since 1988. The action
was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama,
which vacated the class certification order. A motion to remand to state court
has been granted. The Company believes the complaint is without merit.
 
  In April 1996, the Company received a Warning Letter from the FDA relating to
the timeliness and completeness of required post marketing reports for
pharmaceutical products. The letter did not raise any safety issue about Pfizer
drugs. The Company has been implementing remedial actions designed to remedy
the issues raised in the letter. During 1997, the Company met with the FDA to
apprise them of the scope and status of these activities.
 
  In July 1997, the Company resolved all issues with the FDA related to an
August 1996 Warning Letter from the FDA relating to certain promotional
materials used in the marketing of Zoloft. Two purported consumer class actions
involving Zoloft are pending, one in Federal Court in Brownsville, Texas and
the other in Superior Court, San Diego County, California. Each complaint
alleges that Pfizer's promotional materials improperly implied that the FDA had
approved Zoloft as safe and effective for certain indications, and that
patients for whom Zoloft was prescribed as a result of the promotion were
entitled to a refund of their purchase price. The Company believes the suits
are without merit.
 
  A number of cases against Howmedica Inc. (some of which also name the
Company) allege that P.C.A. one-piece acetabular hip prostheses sold from 1983
through 1990 were defectively designed and manufactured and pose undisclosed
risks to implantees. The Company believes that most if not all of these cases
are without merit.
 
  Between 1994 and 1996, seven class actions alleging various injuries arising
from implantable penile prostheses manufactured by American Medical Systems
were filed and ultimately dismissed or discontinued. Thereafter, in late 1996
and 1997, approximately 600 former members of one or more of the purported
classes, represented by some of the same lawyers who filed the class actions,
filed individual suits in Circuit Court in Minneapolis alleging damages from
their use of implantable penile prostheses. The Company believes that most if
not all of these cases are without merit.
 
  In June 1993, the Ministry of Justice of the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil
commenced a civil public action against the Company's Brazilian subsidiary,
Laboratorios Pfizer Ltda. ("Pfizer Brazil") asserting that during a period in
1991, Pfizer Brazil withheld sale of the pharmaceutical product Diabinese in
violation of antitrust and consumer protection laws. The action seeks the award
of moral, economic and personal damages to individuals and the payment to a
public reserve fund. On February 8, 1996, the trial court issued a decision
holding Pfizer Brazil liable. The award of damages to individuals and the
payment into the public reserve fund will be determined in a subsequent phase
of the proceedings. The trial court's opinion sets out a formula for
calculating the payment into the public reserve fund which could result in a
sum of approximately $88 million. The total amount of damages payable to
eligible individuals under the
 

 
decision would depend on the number of persons eventually making claims. Pfizer
Brazil is appealing this decision. The Company believes that this action is
without merit and should not have a material adverse effect on the financial
position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  Not applicable.
 
 
                       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
  As of March 10, 1998, the following executive officers of the Company hold
the offices indicated until their successors are chosen and qualified after the
next annual meeting of shareholders.
 

 
 

 
  Information concerning Messrs. Steere, Clemente and Miller and Drs. McKinnell
and Niblack is contained in, and incorporated here by reference from, the
discussion under the captions Nominees for Directors Whose Terms Expire in
2001, Directors Whose Terms Expire in 2000 and Named Executive Officers Who Are
Not Directors in our Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.
 
BRIAN W. BARRETT
 
  Mr. Barrett joined us in 1966 and has held various financial positions,
including Chief Financial Officer of Pfizer Canada. In 1971, he was appointed
Assistant Controller of Pfizer International in New York; in 1973, Director of
International Planning and in 1976, Director of Planning. In 1980, Mr. Barrett
was appointed Vice President - Corporate Strategic Planning; in 1983, he became
Vice President - Finance for Pfizer International; in 1985, President -
Africa/Middle East; and in 1991, President - Asia/Canada. In 1992, Mr. Barrett
was elected one of our Vice Presidents and in 1993, became President, Northern
Asia, Australasia and Canada - International Pharmaceuticals Group. Mr. Barrett
was named Executive Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals Group, in
1995 and President - Animal Health Group in April 1996.
 
M. KENNETH BOWLER
 
  Mr. Bowler joined us in 1989 and has been Vice President - Federal Government
Relations since 1990. He formerly served as Staff Director for the House Ways
and Means Committee.
 
GEORGE A. FORCIER
 
  Dr. Forcier joined us in 1966 as Analytical Research Chemist for our Medical
Research Laboratories. In 1970, he was named Project Leader, in 1979, Manager,
and in 1981, Assistant Director, of the Analytical Research Department. In
1986, he was named Director of the Analytical Research and Development
Department, and, in 1991, he became Group Director. In 1994, Dr. Forcier became
our Vice President - Quality Control and in 1998, Vice President, Corporate
Quality Assurance.
 
P. NIGEL GRAY
 
  Mr. Gray joined us in 1975 as Export Sales Manager for Howmedica U.K., Ltd.
in England, and progressed through a number of positions of increasing
responsibility before being named Vice President, Marketing for Howmedica
Europe in 1983. In 1987, Mr. Gray became Senior Vice President and General
Manager of Howmedica International in Staines, England, then President of
Howmedica International in 1992. In 1993, he was named Executive Vice President
of our Hospital Products Division and President of the Medical Devices
Division, and in 1994, he was elected one of our Vice Presidents. In 1995, Mr.
Gray assumed his current position as President of our Medical Technology Group.
 
GARY N. JORTNER
 
  Mr. Jortner joined us in 1973 as a Systems Analyst for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. In 1974, he transferred to product management and progressed
through a series of promotions that resulted in his being named Group Product
Manager for Pfizer Labs in 1978. In 1981, he became Vice President of Marketing
for Pfizer Labs. In 1986, he was promoted to Vice President of Operations for
Pfizer Labs. In 1991, he was named Vice President and General Manager, Pfizer
Labs Division. In 1992, Mr. Jortner was elected one of our Vice Presidents. In
1994, he was named Vice President; Group Vice President, Disease Management -
U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group. In 1997, he became Vice President, Product
Development - Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group, and in 1998, he was promoted to
Senior Vice President, Product Development - Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group.
 
KAREN L. KATEN
 
  Ms. Katen joined us in 1974 as a Marketing Associate for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. Beginning in 1975, she progressed through a number of
positions of increasing responsibility in the Roerig product management group
which resulted in her being named Group Product Manager in 1978. In 1980, she
transferred to Pfizer Labs as a Group Product Manager and later became
Director, Product Management. In 1983, she returned to Roerig as Vice President
- - Marketing. In 1986, she was named Vice President and General Manager - Roerig
Division. In 1992, she was elected one of our Vice Presidents. In 1993, Ms.
Katen became Executive Vice President of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group and, in
1995, Ms. Katen was named President of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group. In
January 1997, she became Executive Vice President - Pfizer Pharmaceuticals
Group.
 

 
J. PATRICK KELLY
 
  Mr. Kelly joined us in 1981 as a Marketing Research Associate in the
Pharmaceuticals Division. He became Product Analyst in 1982 and, in 1983, was
made Marketing Associate in the Roerig Division. He progressed through a series
of positions of increasing responsibility and became Group Product Manager for
Roerig in 1989. In 1992, he was named Vice President - Marketing, Roerig in the
U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group and, in 1994, became its Group Vice President,
Disease Management. In 1996, he was elected one of our Vice Presidents and, in
1997, was named Senior Vice President, Disease Management - U.S.
Pharmaceuticals. In 1997, Mr. Kelly became Vice President - Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals Group and Senior Vice President - U.S. Pharmaceuticals.
 
ALAN G. LEVIN
 
  Mr. Levin joined us in 1987 as Senior Operations Auditor for the Controller's
Division. In 1988, he joined the Treasurer's Division as Controller of the
Pfizer International Bank in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He returned to New York in
1991 as Director - Finance, Asia, and in 1993 was named Senior Director -
Finance, Asia. In 1995, Mr. Levin was elected our Treasurer. In 1997, he was
elected Vice President; Treasurer.
 
VICTOR P. MICATI
 
  Mr. Micati joined us in 1965 as a Management Candidate for Pfizer Labs.
Beginning in 1966, he progressed through a number of positions of increasing
responsibility in the Pfizer Labs division, which resulted in his being named
Vice President - Marketing in 1971. In 1972, he became Vice President of
Pharmaceutical Development for International Pharmaceuticals. In 1980, he was
named Executive Vice President of Pfizer Europe. Mr. Micati returned to the
International Pharmaceutical Division in 1984 as Senior Vice President, and
from 1990 to 1997 was Area President, Europe. In 1992, he was elected one
of our Vice Presidents. Mr. Micati was named Executive Vice President,
International Pharmaceuticals Group in 1996, and in 1997 was named Executive
Vice President of the Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group.
 
GEORGE M. MILNE, JR.
 
  Dr. Milne joined us in 1970 as a Research Scientist. In 1973, he was named
Senior Research Scientist and progressed through a number of positions of
increasing responsibility which resulted in his being named Vice President,
Research and Development Operations in 1985. In 1988, Dr. Milne became Senior
Vice President, Research and Development, and, in 1993, he was elected one of
our Vice Presidents and President, Central Research.
 
WILLIAM J. ROBISON
 
  Mr. Robison joined us in 1961 as a Sales Representative for Pfizer Labs.
After serving in a number of positions of increasing responsibility in the Labs
division, he was appointed Vice President of Sales in 1980, and Senior Vice
President Pfizer Labs in 1986. In 1990, he was appointed Vice President and
General Manager of Pratt Pharmaceuticals. In 1992, he was named President of
the Consumer Health Care Group, and was elected one of our Vice Presidents. In
1996, Mr. Robison was elected Senior Vice President - Employee Resources.
 
HERBERT V. RYAN
 
  Mr. Ryan joined us in 1962 as Supervisor, Capital Assets. In 1964, he was
named Supervisor, Corporate Ledger and, in 1966, became Director, Corporate
Accounting. In 1981, he was appointed Assistant Controller, Corporate
Accounting, and in 1993, Mr. Ryan was elected Corporate Controller. In 1997,
Mr. Ryan was elected Vice President; Controller.
 
CRAIG SAXTON
 
  Dr. Saxton joined us in 1976 as Clinical Projects Director for the Central
Research Division of Pfizer Limited in Sandwich, England. In 1981, he was named
Senior Associate Medical Director for the International Division of Pfizer Inc.
and, in 1982, became the Division's Vice President, Medical Director. Dr.
Saxton became Senior Vice President, Clinical Research and Development for the
Central Research Division in 1988. In 1993, he was named Executive Vice
President - Central Research and was elected one of our Vice Presidents.
 

 
DAVID L. SHEDLARZ
 
Mr. Shedlarz joined us in 1976 as Senior Financial Analyst in the
Pharmaceuticals Division. Following a series of positions of increasing
responsibility, including service as financial manager and controller of
Marketing/Sales/Production, Diagnostics Division, he was promoted to Production
Controller of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Division in 1979. He was appointed
Assistant Group Controller, U.S. Pharmaceuticals Division in 1981. In 1984, Mr.
Shedlarz assumed responsibilities as Group Controller and was promoted to Vice
President of Finance of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group in 1989. He was elected
our Vice President - Finance in 1992, and he was named our Chief Financial
Officer in 1995. Mr. Shedlarz assumed his responsibilities as our Senior Vice
President in January 1997 with responsibility for the worldwide Medical
Technology Group.
 
MOHAND SIDI SAID
 
Mr. Sidi Said joined us in 1965 as a professional sales representative. During
his career, he has held a variety of management assignments in Algeria,
Morocco, Kenya, Egypt, France, Belgium, and the United States. In 1996, he was
elected one of our Vice Presidents and was also named Senior Vice President -
Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group and Area President - Asia/Africa/Middle East.
 
FREDERICK W. TELLING
 
Dr. Telling joined us in 1977 as Associate Personnel Manager for the
Pharmaceuticals Division and progressed through a number of positions of
increasing responsibility before being named Director of Planning for the
Pharmaceuticals Division in 1981. In 1987, he was named Vice President of
Planning and Policy and, in 1994, Senior Vice President of Planning and Policy
for the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group. In October 1994, Dr. Telling was elected
our Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning and Policy.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
  The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange. It
is also listed on the London, Paris, Brussels, and Swiss Stock Exchanges and is
traded on various United States regional stock exchanges. Additional
information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the table
Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data on page 60 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  Historical financial information is incorporated by reference from the
Financial Summary on page 61 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
Financial Review on pages 29 through 39 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading Financial Risk Management on pages 37 and 38 of
the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
Independent Auditors' Report found on page 40 and from the consolidated
financial statements and supplementary data on pages 41 through 60 of the 1997
Annual Report to Shareholders.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
  Information about Directors of the Company is incorporated by reference from
the discussion under Item 1 of our Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders. The balance of the response to this item is contained in the
discussion
 

 
entitled Executive Officers of the Company in Part I of this report.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  Information about executive compensation is incorporated by reference from
the discussion under the heading Executive Compensation in our Proxy Statement
for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  Information about security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
Security Ownership of Directors and Officers in Item 1 of our Proxy Statement
for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  Information about certain relationships and transactions with related parties
is incorporated herein by reference from the discussion under the heading
Related Transactions in our Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
14 (A)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  The following consolidated financial statements, related notes and
independent auditors' report, from the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, are
incorporated by reference into Item 8 of Part II of this report:
 

 
14(A)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
  Schedules are omitted because they are not required or the information is
given elsewhere in the financial statements. The financial statements of
unconsolidated subsidiaries are omitted because, considered in the aggregate,
they would not constitute a significant subsidiary.
 
14(A)(3) EXHIBITS These exhibits are available upon request at a charge of ten
cents per page. Requests should be directed to C.L. Clemente, Secretary, Pfizer
Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017.
 
 3(i)- Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation as of October 29, 1997 is
        incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the period ended
        September 28, 1997.
 

 
 3(ii)- Our By-laws as amended June 23, 1994 are incorporated by reference from
        Exhibit 3(ii) of our report on Form 8-K dated June 23, 1994.
 
 4(i)- Our Rights Agreement dated as of October 6, 1997 with ChaseMellon
        Shareholders Services, L.L.C. is incorporated by reference from our
        report on Form 8-K dated October 6, 1997.
 
10(i)- Stock and Incentive Plan as amended through December 15, 1997.
 
10(ii)- Pfizer Retirement Annuity Plan as amended through November 6, 1997.
 
10(iii)- The form of severance agreement with the Named Executive Officers
        identified in our Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
        Shareholders is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to our 1994
        10-K report.
 
10(iv)- Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Supplemental Savings Plan is
        incorporated by reference from our 1996 10-K report.
 
10(v)- Executive Annual Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from the
        exhibit to our Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
        Shareholders.
 
10(vi)- Performance-Contingent Share Award Program is incorporated by reference
        from Exhibit 10.3 to our 10-Q report for the period ended September 29,
        1996.
 
10(vii)- Nonfunded Supplemental Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference
        from our 1996 10-K report.
 
10(viii)- The form of Indemnification Agreement with Directors is incorporated
        by reference from our 1996 10-K report.
 
10(ix)- The form of Indemnification Agreement with Named Executive Officers.
 
10(x)- Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan [frozen as of October 1996] is
        incorporated by reference from our 1996 10-K report.
 
10(xi)- Annual Retainer Unit Award Plan (for non-employee Directors) is
        incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to our 10-Q report for the
        period ended September 29, 1996.
 
10(xii)- Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Unit Award Plan for Non-Employee
        Directors is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to our 10-Q
        report for the period ended September 29, 1996.
 
10(xiii)- Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated by
        reference from our 1996 10-K report.
 
10(xiv)- Deferred Compensation Plan.
 
10(xv)- Summary of Annual Incentive Plan.
 
12 - Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
 
13(a)- The 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which, except for those portions
        expressly incorporated herein by reference, is furnished solely for the
        information of the Commission and is not to be deemed "filed".
 
21- Subsidiaries of the Company.
 
23- Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent certified public accountants.
 
27.1- Financial Data Schedule for the Period Ended December 31, 1997.
 
27.2- Financial Data Schedule Restated for the Period Ended December 31, 1996.
 
27.3- Financial Data Schedule Amended and Restated for the Period Ended
        December 31, 1995.
 
(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  The Company filed reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of 1997 dated
October 6 and December 10, 1997.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          Pfizer Inc.
 
                                              /s/ C.L. Clemente
                                          By: _________________________________
                                            C.L. Clemente, Senior Vice
                                            President, Secretary and Corporate
                                            Counsel
 
Dated: March 26, 1998
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
             SIGNATURES                         TITLE                DATE
             ----------                         -----                ----
 
/s/ William C. Steere, Jr.              Chairman of the         March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------    Board, Director
(William C. Steere, Jr.)                 (Principal
                                         Executive Officer)
 
/s/ David L. Shedlarz                   Senior Vice             March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------    President and Chief
(David L. Shedlarz)                      Financial Officer
                                         (Principal
                                         Financial Officer)
 
/s/ Herbert V. Ryan                     Vice President--        March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------    Controller
(Herbert V. Ryan)                        (Principal
                                         Accounting Officer)
 
/s/ Michael S. Brown                    Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(Michael S. Brown)
 
/s/ M. Anthony Burns                    Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(M. Anthony Burns)
 
/s/ W. Don Cornwell                     Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(W. Don Cornwell)
 
/s/ George B. Harvey                    Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(George B. Harvey)
 
/s/ Constance J. Horner                 Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(Constance J. Horner)
 
/s/ Stanley O. Ikenberry                Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(Stanley O. Ikenberry)
 

 
             SIGNATURES                         TITLE                DATE
             ----------                         -----                ----
 
/s/ Harry P. Kamen                      Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(Harry P. Kamen)
 
                                        Director
- -------------------------------------
(Thomas G. Labrecque)
 
                                        Director
- -------------------------------------
(Dana G. Mead)
 
/s/ Henry A. McKinnell                  Executive Vice          March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------    President and
(Henry A. McKinnell)                     Director
 
/s/ John F. Niblack                     Executive Vice          March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------    President and
(John F. Niblack)                        Director
 
/s/ Ruth J. Simmons                     Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(Ruth J. Simmons)
 
/s/ Jean-Paul Valles                    Director                March 26, 1998
- -------------------------------------
(Jean-Paul Valles)
 

