
10-K405
d10k405.txt
10-K405


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[ X ]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001
                                       OR
[   ]        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the transition period from ____to___Commission File Number:1-8089
                                                                    ------

                             DANAHER CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                         59-1995548
          --------                                         ----------
  (State of incorporation)                               (I.R.S.Employer
                                                      Identification number)

  2099 Pennsylvania Ave. NW
        Washington, D.C.                                   20006-1813
        ----------------                                   ----------
     (Address of Principal                                 (Zip Code)
       Executive Offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 202-828-0850

          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of Exchanges
Title of each class                              on which registered
- -------------------                              -------------------
Common Stock $.01 par Value                   New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                              Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     NONE

                               (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

         Yes  X                                  No __
             ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]

As of March 25, 2002, the number of shares of common stock outstanding was
150.9 million and were held by approximately 3,000 holders. The aggregate
market value of common shares held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on such
date was approximately $7.9 billion, based upon the closing price of the
Company's common shares as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape
on such date.

                       EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 45




                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the registrant's
proxy statement for its 2002 annual meeting of stockholders. With the exception
of the pages of the 2002 Proxy Statement specifically incorporated herein by
reference, the 2002 Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this
Form 10-K.

Certain information included or incorporated by reference in this document may
be deemed to be "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements,
other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or
developments that the Company intends, expects, projects, believes or
anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward looking statements.
Such statements are characterized by terminology such as "believe,"
"anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "expects," "estimates,"
"projects," "positioned," "strategy," and similar expressions. These statements
are based on assumptions and assessments made by the Company management in
light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current
conditions, expected future developments and other factors it believes to be
appropriate. These forward looking statements are subject to a number of risks
and uncertainties, including but not limited to continuation of the Company's
longstanding relationship with major customers, the Company's ability to
integrate acquired businesses into its operations and realize planned
synergies, the extent to which acquired businesses are able to meet the
Company's expectations and operate profitably, changes in regulations
(particularly environmental regulations) which could affect demand for products
in the Process/Environmental Controls segment and unanticipated developments
that could occur with respect to contingencies such as environmental matters
and litigation. In addition, the Company is subject to risks and uncertainties
that affect the manufacturing sector generally including, but not limited to,
economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors affecting the
Company's operations, markets, products, services and prices. Any such forward
looking statements are not guarantees of future performances and actual
results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by
such forward looking statements. The Company disclaims any duty to update any
forward looking statements, all of which are expressly qualified by the
foregoing.




ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
- -----------------

Operating Segments
- ------------------

     Danaher Corporation ("Danaher," the "Company," "we," "us," "our") conducts
its operations through two business segments: Process/Environmental Controls
and Tools & Components.

PROCESS/ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS
- ------------------------------

     The Process/Environmental Controls segment in 2001 encompassed three
strategic platforms (Motion Control, Environmental, and Electronic Test) and
three focused niche businesses (Power Quality, Aviation & Defense, and
Industrial Controls). In early 2002 a fourth strategic platform, Product
Identification, was added to the segment through the acquisition of Videojet
Technologies (formerly known as Marconi Data Systems). Process/Environmental
Controls products are distributed by the Company's sales personnel and
independent representatives to distributors, end-users, and original equipment
manufacturers.

STRATEGIC PLATFORMS
- -------------------

     Motion Control. At the end of 2001 Motion Control, representing
     --------------
approximately 24% of segment revenue in 2001, was Danaher's largest strategic
platform. Danaher provides motors, drives, controls, and related components for
various precision motion control markets such as packaging equipment, robotics,
circuit board assembly equipment, and electric lift trucks. Danaher entered the
motion control industry through the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Company
in 1998. The Company has subsequently expanded its product and geographic
breadth with various follow-on acquisitions, including Inmotion Technologies
(formerly known as Atlas Copco Controls), American Precision Industries,
Kollmorgen Corporation, and the motion control businesses of Warner Electric
Company.  Danaher is currently one of the leading worldwide providers of
precision motion control equipment.

     Environmental. The Environmental platform serves two main markets.
     -------------
Danaher's water quality operations provide a wide range of instruments, related
consumables, and services used to detect and measure chemical, physical, and
microbiological parameters in drinking water, wastewater, and ultrapure water.
The Company is a worldwide leader in this market, providing products under a
variety of well-known brands. Danaher entered the water quality sector in 1996
and has enhanced its geographical coverage and product and service breadth
through subsequent acquisitions including American Sigma, Dr. Lange, and Hach
Company. The acquisition of Viridor, which was announced in late 2001 and
closed in early 2002, further enhanced Danaher's product and geographic
coverage in this area.

     Through the Veeder-Root business Danaher designs, manufactures, and
markets monitoring and leak detection systems for underground fuel storage
tanks.  Danaher also provides remote monitoring services for its installed
systems, as well as statistical inventory reconciliation services. The Red
Jacket acquisition in 2001 broadened Veeder-Root's product line to include
submersible turbine




pumps. The acquisition of Gilbarco (formerly known as Marconi Commerce
Systems), which was announced in late 2001 and closed in February 2002, further
expanded Danaher's product offering to include vapor recovery systems, PC-based
site management systems, point-of-sale and merchandising systems, and fuel
dispensers for retail petroleum stations. Today, Danaher is a leading
worldwide provider of environmental and related products for the retail
petroleum market.

         In 2001, Environmental Products represented approximately 22% of
segment revenue. Following the Gilbarco and Viridor acquisitions in 2002,
Environmental became Danaher's largest strategic platform.

     Electronic Test. The Electronic Test platform, representing approximately
     ---------------
21% of segment revenue in 2001, was created through the acquisition of Fluke
Corporation in 1998, and has since been supplemented by various subsequent
acquisitions. Fluke designs, manufactures, and markets a variety of compact
professional test tools, as well as calibration equipment. These test products
measure voltage, current, resistance, power quality, frequency, temperature,
pressure, and other key electrical parameters.

       In 2000, Fluke Networks was separated from Fluke as a stand-alone
business unit. Fluke Networks provides software and hardware products used for
installation, monitoring, and maintenance of local and wide area networks and
the underlying fiber and cable infrastructure. The majority of Fluke Networks'
sales address "enterprise" (corporate) network applications.

         The Company believes that the Fluke brand name and trade dress are
extremely well recognized and well regarded among targeted customers. Both
Fluke and Fluke Networks are leaders in their served market segments.

FOCUSED NICHE BUSINESSES
- ------------------------

         Power Quality. Power Quality serves two general markets . Through the
         -------------
Danaher Power Solutions business, Danaher provides products including static
transfer switches, power distribution units, and transient voltage surge
suppressors. Sold under the Cyberex, Current Technology, and United Power
brands, these products are typically incorporated within systems used to ensure
high-quality, reliable power in commercial and industrial environments.
Danaher's other power quality businesses provide a variety of products primarily
used in power transmission and distribution systems. Customers are primarily
utilities. These products are marketed under the Joslyn Hi-Voltage, Qualitrol,
Jennings, and Fisher-Pierce brands.

     Aviation & Defense. Aviation & Defense designs, manufactures, and markets
     ------------------
a variety of aircraft safety equipment, including smoke detection and fire
suppression systems, energetic material systems, electronic security systems,
motors and actuators, and electrical power generation and management
subsystems, as well as submarine periscopes and photonic masts. These product
lines came principally from the Pacific Scientific and Kollmorgen acquisitions,
and are marketed under the Pacific Scientific, Sunbank, Securaplane,




Kollmorgen Electro-Optical, and Calzoni brands.

         Industrial Control. Danaher's Industrial Control products include
         ------------------
instruments that measure and control discrete manufacturing variables such as
temperature, position, quantity, and time, as well as level and flow
measurement devices for various non-water-related end-markets. These products
are marketed under a variety of brands, including Dynapar, Eagle Signal,
Hengstler, Partlow, Anderson, West, Dolan-Jenner, Namco, and GEMS Sensors.

TOOLS & COMPONENTS
- ------------------

     The Tools & Components segment encompasses one strategic platform,
Mechanics Hand Tools, and five focused niche businesses (Jacobs(R) Chuck
Manufacturing Company, Delta Consolidated Industries, Jacobs Vehicle Systems,
Hennessy Industries, and Joslyn Manufacturing Company). Products are
distributed by the Company's sales personnel and independent representatives to
distributors, end-users, and original equipment manufacturers.

STRATEGIC PLATFORM
- ------------------

         Mechanics Hand Tools. The Mechanics Hand Tools platform, representing
         --------------------
approximately 64% of segment revenue in 2001, encompasses two businesses:
Danaher Tool Group ("DTG") and Matco Tools Corporation ("Matco"). DTG is one of
the largest worldwide producers of general purpose mechanics' hand tools
(primarily ratchets, sockets, and wrenches) and specialized automotive service
tools for the professional and "do-it-yourself" markets. DTG has been the
principal manufacturer of Sears, Roebuck and Co.'s Craftsman(R) line of
mechanics' hand tools for over 60 years. DTG has also been the primary supplier
of specialized automotive service tools to the National Automotive Parts
Association (NAPA) for over 30 years, and the designated supplier of general
purpose mechanics' hand tools to NAPA since 1983. In addition to this private
label business, Danaher also markets various products under its own brand names,
including mechanics' hand tools for industrial and consumer markets under the
Armstrong(R) and Allen(R) brands, automotive service tools under the K-D
Tools(R) brand, and fastener products under the Holo-Krome(R) brand.

     Matco manufactures and distributes professional automotive equipment,
tools, and toolboxes through independent mobile distributors, who sell
primarily to professional mechanics. The business is one of the leaders in the
hand tool mobile distribution channel.

FOCUSED NICHE BUSINESSES
- ------------------------

     Jacobs(R) Chuck Manufacturing Company. Jacobs(R) designs, manufactures,
     -------------------------------------
and markets chucks and precision tool and workholders, primarily for the
portable power tool industry. Founded by the inventor of the three-jaw drill
chuck, Jacobs(R) maintains a worldwide leadership position in drill chucks.

     Delta Consolidated Industries. Delta is a leading manufacturer of
     -----------------------------
automotive truckboxes and industrial gang boxes, which it sells




under the DELTA(R) and JOBOX(R)brands.

     Jacobs Vehicle Systems ("JVS"). JVS is a leading worldwide supplier of
     ------------------------------
supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles, selling Jake Brake(R)
brand engine retarders for class 7 and 8 vehicles and exhaust brakes for class
2 through 7 vehicles. With over 2 million engine retarders installed, JVS has
maintained a leadership position in its industry since introducing the first
engine retarder in 1961.

     Hennessy Industries. Hennessy is a leading North American full-line wheel
     -------------------
service equipment manufacturer, providing brake lathes, vehicle lifts, tire
changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under the Ammco(R), Bada(R), and
Coats(R) brands.

     Joslyn Manufacturing Company. Joslyn Manufacturing designs, manufactures,
     ----------------------------
and markets pole line hardware, electrical apparatus, and termination
enclosures for the electrical utility and telecommunications markets.

Raw Materials
- -------------

         Danaher's products use a wide variety of raw materials. Danaher
believes that it will generally be able to obtain adequate supplies of major
raw material requirements or reasonable substitutes at reasonable costs.

Patents/Trademarks
- ------------------

         Danaher owns numerous patents and trademarks, and has also acquired
licenses under patents and trademarks owned by others. Although in aggregate
Danaher's intellectual property is important to the operation of the Company,
Danaher does not consider any single patent or trademark to be of material
importance to the business as a whole. From time to time, however, Danaher does
engage in litigation to protect its patents and trademarks.

Competition
- -----------

         Because of the diversity of its served product and geographic markets,
Danaher encounters a wide variety of competitors. Some of these competitors
have greater sales, marketing, research, and financial resources than Danaher.
Key competitive factors typically include price, quality, delivery speed,
innovation, product features and performance, and brand name.

Seasonal Nature of Business
- ---------------------------

         As a whole, Danaher's business is not subject to material seasonal
fluctuations.

Backlog
- -------

     Danaher's products are manufactured primarily in advance of order and
either shipped or assembled from stock. Backlogs are generally not significant
as sales are often dependent on orders requiring rapid shipment.




Employee Relations
- ------------------

         At December 31, 2001, the Company employed approximately 23,000
full-time and temporary persons. Of these, approximately 2,300 were
hourly-rated unionized employees. The Company considers its labor relations to
be good.

Research and Development
- ------------------------

         The Company's research and development expenditures were approximately
$119 million for 2001, $138 million for 2000 and $119 million for 1999.

Environmental and Safety Regulations
- ------------------------------------

         Certain of the Company's operations are subject to federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations which impose limitations on the
discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for
treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company
believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental
laws and regulations.

         Joslyn Manufacturing Company ("JMC") previously operated wood treating
facilities that chemically preserved utility poles, pilings and railroad ties.
All such treating operations were discontinued or sold prior to 1982. These
facilities used wood preservatives that included creosote, pentachlorophenol
and chromium-arsenic-copper. While preservatives were handled in accordance
with then existing law, environmental law now imposes retroactive liability, in
some circumstances, on persons who owned or operated wood-treating sites. JMC
is remediating some of its former sites and will remediate other sites in the
future. The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation;
however, there can be no assurance that estimates of environmental liabilities
will not change.

         In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company may incur
costs related to alleged environmental damage associated with past or current
waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. For
example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which
environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the owners of those
sites and certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by
state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority. The
Company believes that its liability, if any, for past or current waste handling
practices will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operation,
financial condition and cash flow.

         The Company must also comply with various federal, state and local
safety regulations in connection with its operations. The Company's compliance
with these regulations has had no material adverse effect on its financial
condition.




Major Customers
- ---------------

         The Company has no customers which accounted for more than 10% of
consolidated sales in 2001. The Company's largest single customer is Sears,
Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"), and although the relationship with Sears is
long-standing, the Company believes the loss or material reduction of this
business could have a material adverse effect on its operations.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

          At December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately 98 significant
manufacturing and distribution locations worldwide, comprising approximately 12
million square feet, of which approximately 33 facilities were located outside
the United States, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia-Pacific,
Canada, and Latin America. The approximate number of manufacturing and
distribution locations by business segment are: Process/ Environmental
Controls, 65; and Tools and Components, 33. The majority of the locations are
owned, with the remainder occupied under leases. The Company considers its
facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used. In
the fourth quarter of 2001, management recorded a restructuring charge which
included the closure of 16 facilities. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

              A former subsidiary of the Company is engaged in litigation in
several states with respect to product liability. The Company sold the
subsidiary in 1987. Under the terms of the sale agreement, the Company agreed
to indemnify the buyer of the subsidiary for product liability related to tools
manufactured by the subsidiary prior to June 4, 1987. The cases involve
approximately 3,000 plaintiffs, in state and federal courts. All other major
U.S. air tool manufacturers are also defendants. The gravamen of these
complaints is that the defendants' air tools, when used in different types of
manufacturing environments over extended periods of time, were defective in
design and caused various physical injuries. The plaintiffs seek compensatory
and punitive damages. The Company has accepted an agreement in principle to
settle these claims. Completion of this settlement agreement will not result in
a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial
condition.

              In addition to the litigation noted above, the Company is, from
time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to its business. These
lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the
Company's products, some of which include claims for punitive as well as
compensatory damages. The Company is also involved in proceedings with respect
to environmental matters, including sites where it has been identified as a
potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and
regulations. The Company believes that the




results of the above-noted litigation and other pending legal proceedings will
not have a materially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or
financial condition, notwithstanding any related insurance recoveries.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDER
- -----------------------------------------------------------

              No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
the fourth quarter of 2001.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         -----------------------------------------------------
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
         -------------------

        The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and
the Pacific Stock Exchange under symbol DHR. On March 25, 2002, there were
approximately 3,000 registered holders of record of the Company's common stock.
The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange, and the dividends paid per share, in each case for the periods
described below, were as follows:

                           2001                        2000
                           ----                        ----
                                      Dividends                    Dividends
                                         Per                          Per
                      High      Low    Share      High      Low      Share
                 --------------------------------------------------------------
First quarter        $68.69   $52.21   $0.02     $51.25    $36.44    $0.015

Second quarter        65.49    51.51    0.02      58.94     46.81     0.015

Third quarter         59.20    43.90    0.02      56.75     45.19      0.02

Fourth quarter        64.10    45.57    0.02      69.81     49.00      0.02

The payment of dividends by the Company in the future will be determined by the
Company's Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, the
Company's financial earnings and other factors.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  (in thousand except per share data)






Earnings per share
          Diluted       2.01***       2.23        1.79**     1.33*        1.31
          Basic         2.07***       2.28        1.84**     1.37*        1.35

Dividends per share
                           0.08       0.07        0.07        0.09        0.10

Total assets       4,820,483     4,031,679   3,047,071   2,840,859   2,264,741

Total debt         1,191,689       795,190     374,634     503,639     229,095

*     Includes $28.6 million in after-tax costs ($0.20 per share) from the
merger with the Fluke Corporation

**    Includes $9.8 million in after-tax costs ($0.07 per share) from the
merger with the Hach Company

***   Includes $43.5 million in after-tax costs ($0.29 per share) from
restructuring charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2001.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      Danaher Corporation (the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets
industrial and consumer products with strong brand names, proprietary
technology and major market positions in two business segments:
Process/Environmental Controls and Tools and Components. The
Process/Environmental Controls Segment is a leading producer of environmental
products, including water quality analytical instrumentation and leak detection
systems for underground fuel storage tanks; compact professional electronic
test tools; product identification equipment and consumables; retail petroleum
automation products; and motion, position, speed, temperature, pressure, level,
flow, particulate and power reliability and quality control and safety devices.
In its Tools and Components Segment, the Company is a leading producer and
distributor of general-purpose mechanics' hand tools and automotive specialty
tools, as well as of toolboxes and storage devices, diesel engine retarders,
wheel service equipment, drill chucks, and hardware and components for the
power generation and transmission industries.

       Presented below is a summary of sales by business segment.

(in thousand)                 2001              2000                1999
                      --------------------------------------------------
                          $        %           $       %         $          %
Process/Environmental
   Controls           $2,616,797  69.2%   $2,441,986  64.6%  $1,854,184   58.0%
Tools and Components   1,165,647  30.8%    1,335,791  35.4%   1,343,054   42.0%
                      ----------  -----   ----------  -----  ----------  ------
                      $3,782,444 100.0%   $3,777,777 100.0%  $3,197,238  100.0%
                      ========== ======   ========== ======  ==========  ======




PROCESS/ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS
- ------------------------------

             The Process/Environmental Controls segment is comprised of Hach
Company, the Dr. Bruno Lange Group, McCrometer, Videojet Technologies, Fluke
Corporation, Fluke Networks, Gilbarco, Veeder-Root Company, the Danaher
Industrial Controls Group, the Danaher Motion Control Group (including General
Purpose Systems, the Motion Components Division and Danaher Precision Systems),
the controls business units of Joslyn Corporation and Pacific Scientific
Company, M&M Precision Systems, Danaher Power Solutions, QualiTROL Corporation,
Gems Sensors, Kollmorgen Artus, and Kollmorgen Electro-Optical. These companies
produce and sell compact, professional electronic test tools; product
identification equipment and consumables; retail petroleum automation products;
underground storage tank leak detection systems; motion, position, speed,
temperature, and level instruments and sensing devices; power switches and
controls; communication line products; power protection products; liquid flow
and quality measuring devices; quality assurance products and systems; safety
devices; and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling devices. These
products are distributed by the Company's sales personnel and independent
representatives to original equipment manufacturers, distributors and other
end-users.

2001 COMPARED TO 2000

             Sales in 2001 were 7% higher than in 2000 for this segment. The
full-year impact of the 2000 acquisitions of American Precision Industries,
Kollmorgen Corporation, Warner Electric Motion and acquisitions of several
smaller businesses in 2001 provided a 15% increase from 2000. Two small product
line dispositions in 2001 caused a 2% decrease in 2001 segment sales. The
remainder of the sales change was generated by a decrease in unit volume of 5%
and a 1% negative currency translation impact. Overall segment prices remained
flat for 2001 compared to 2000.

             Revenues from the motion control business grew approximately 20%
from 2000 levels. An increase of 40% from acquisitions was offset by declines
in revenues from existing businesses of approximately 20%, driven by
recession-related weakness in end markets, particularly semi conductor end
markets. Electronic test revenues declined 1.5%. Acquisition growth of 3.5% and
continued growth in sales of Fluke Networks business were offset by declines in
sales of Fluke industrial products. Environmental and water quality revenues
for 2001 increased 17% from 2000. 7% of this growth resulted from acquisitions,
with the balance coming from core growth in the Veeder-Root and water quality
product lines. The Company's aviation and defense business units grew 39% in
2001.  Acquisition growth of 30%, in particular that provided by the full-year
impact of the Kollmorgen acquisition, accounted for most of the increase.
Power quality revenues declined 14% in 2001, as net acquisition growth of 6%
offset significant declines in end-user demand.

             Operating profit margins, excluding the effects of the
restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001, increased from
15.7% to 16.5% due to aggressive cost reduction




actions across all business units and continued margin improvements in recently
acquired companies.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999

         Sales in 2000 were 32% higher than in 1999 for this segment. The
acquisitions of American Precision Industries, Kollmorgen Corporation, Warner
Electric Motion and several smaller businesses provided a 24% increase from
1999. The remainder of the sales change was generated by an increase in unit
volume of 10.5%, offset by a 2.5% negative currency translation impact.
Double-digit volume increases were achieved in the power quality, water
quality, motion control and electronic test businesses. The motion control
business units contributed the majority of the acquisition sales increase.
Operating margins increased from 15.5% to 15.7% due to higher sales volumes
which were spread over a fixed cost base, continued margin improvements in the
electronic test businesses and cost reductions which were offset by lower
operating margins of those businesses acquired during 2000.

TOOLS AND COMPONENTS
- --------------------

         The Tools and Components Segment is comprised of the Danaher Hand Tool
Group (including the Special Markets, Asian Tools, Professional Tools and Matco
Tools Divisions), Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company, Delta Consolidated
Industries, Jacobs Vehicle Systems, Hennessy Industries, and the hardware and
electrical apparatus lines of Joslyn Manufacturing Company. This segment is one
of the largest domestic producers and distributors of general- purpose and
specialty mechanics' hand tools. Other products manufactured by these companies
include toolboxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service
equipment; drill chucks; custom-designed headed tools and components; hardware
and components for the power generation and transmission industries; and
high-quality precision socket screws, fasteners, and miniature precision parts.

2001 COMPARED TO 2000

             Sales declined 13% from 2000 to 2001. Continued weakness in the
heavy-duty truck market significantly impacted sales of diesel engine retarders,
accounting for a 4% drop in segment revenues. Sharp declines in drill chuck
sales combined with a fall in hand tool revenues to contribute a 6% reduction in
segment sales from 2000. Sales in both the Joslyn hardware and electrical
apparatus lines and the Delta Industries product lines reflected double-digit
declines from the sales levels achieved by those lines in 2000 due to
recessionary pressures in the markets they serve. Price and currency impacts
were negligible for this segment. Operating profit margins, excluding the
effects of the restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001,
decreased from 14.2% to 13.5%. The unfavorable impact of lower production
volumes was partially offset by aggressive cost reduction actions taken across
all business units.




2000 COMPARED TO 1999

         Comparable sales for the segment were flat from 1999 to 2000, as
reported sales showed a 0.5% decline after a small divestiture. A sharp decline
in diesel engine retarder sales accounted for a 3% drop in segment sales and
was offset by growth in the hand tool and related products business units,
while prices were essentially flat. Operating profit margins increased from
14.0% to 14.2% as a result of cost reductions implemented throughout the
segment.

GROSS PROFIT
- ------------

            Gross profit margin in 2001 was 38.2%, a 0.5% decrease compared to
38.7% achieved in 2000. Lower core volumes and lower margins associated with
businesses acquired in 2000 and 2001 drove the reduction, and were partially
offset by overhead cost reductions and process improvements in all business
units.

         Gross profit margin in 2000 was 38.7%, the same as the 1999 gross
margin. Productivity improvements and manufacturing overhead cost reductions
were offset by the lower margins of businesses acquired in 2000.

OPERATING EXPENSES
- ------------------

         Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2001 as a percentage
of sales were 23.1%, 1% lower than in 2000. Aggressive cost reductions and
reductions in discretionary spending implemented in late 2000 and throughout
2001 drove this decrease.

         In 2000, selling, general and administrative expenses were 24.1% of
sales, an improvement of 0.2% from 1999 levels. Higher spending levels in
acquired businesses were offset by cost reductions and the leverage of higher
sales.

RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
- --------------------

         In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a restructuring
charge of $69.7 million ($43.5 million after tax, or $.29 per share). During
the fourth quarter of 2001, management determined that it would restructure
certain of its product lines, principally its drill chuck, power quality, and
industrial controls businesses due to deteriorating financial performance, and
higher cost excess facility capacity. Severance costs for the termination of
approximately 1,100 employees approximates $49 million. Approximately $16
million of the charge was to write-off assets associated with the closure of 16
facilities in North America and Europe. The remainder of the charge of $5
million was for other exit costs including lease termination costs. The
majority of the cash expenditures and cost savings related to the restructuring
are expected to be spent and realized in 2002. In conjunction with the closing
of the facilities, approximately $4 million of inventory was written off as
unusable in future operating locations. The inventory write-off was included in
Cost of Sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 and is not included as part of the
restructuring charge in 2001.




INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS
- -----------------------------------------

         The Company's debt financing as of December 31, 2001 is composed
primarily of $529 million of zero coupon convertible notes due 2021 ("LYONs"),
$267 million of 6.25% Eurobond notes due 2005, $250 million of 6% notes due
2008, uncommitted lines and a revolving credit facility which provides senior
financing of $500 million for general corporate purposes. The interest rates
for borrowing under the revolving credit facility float with base rates.

         Interest expense in 2001 was $3.5 million lower than in 2000 due to an
increase in interest earned as a result of higher average invested cash
balances during 2001. Interest expense in 2000 was $12.6 million higher than in
1999 due to higher debt and lower cash levels which resulted from acquisitions
completed during 2000.

         On June 28, 2001, the Company replaced its $250 million bank credit
facility with a new $500 million credit facility. The new facility provides
funds for general corporate purposes at an interest rate of the Eurocurrency
rate plus .21% to .70%, depending on the Company's current debt rating. The
Credit facility has a fixed five year term. There were no borrowings under
either facility during 2001.

INCOME TAXES
- ------------

         The 2001 effective tax rate of 37.5% is 0.5% lower than in 2000,
driven primarily by a higher proportion of foreign earnings in 2001 compared to
2000.

         The 2000 effective tax rate of 38.0% is 1.1% lower than in 1999,
driven primarily by an increase in taxable income in lower rate foreign
jurisdictions and the nondeductible expenses associated with the Hach merger in
1999.

INFLATION
- ---------

         The effect of inflation on the Company's operations has been minimal
in 2001, 2000 and 1999.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
- -----------------------------------------

    The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency
exchange rates and interest rates, which could impact its results of operations
and financial condition. The Company manages its exposure to these risks
through its normal operating and financing activities. There were no material
derivative instrument transactions during any of the periods presented. In
January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for
the term of the 6% notes due 2008 having a notional principal amount of $100
million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of these notes will
be the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. See Note 7 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company's
issuance of Eurobond notes in 2000 provided an offset to a portion of the
Company's European net asset position. The Company has generally accepted the
exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its investment in foreign




operations without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk.
Additionally, the Company does not generally utilize or trade commodity
contracts or derivatives.

         The fair value of the Company's fixed-rate long-term debt is sensitive
to changes in interest rates. The value of this debt is subject to change as a
result of movements in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique
used to evaluate this potential impact. Based on a hypothetical, immediate 100
basis-point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2001, the market value
of the Company's fixed-rate long-term debt would be impacted by a net decrease
of $18 million. This methodology has certain limitations, and these
hypothetical gains or losses would not be reflected in the Company's results of
operations or financial conditions under current accounting principles.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------

         In 2001, the Company acquired United Power Corporation and eleven
additional smaller companies, primarily additions to our environmental,
electronic test, and safety and aviation business lines, for a total of $439
million in cash. The Company also disposed of two small product lines during
2001, yielding cash proceeds of approximately $32 million. There were no
material gains or losses recognized on the sale of these product lines.

      During the first quarter of 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value
at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were approximately $505
million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the
balance was and will be used for general corporate purposes, including
acquisitions. The LYONs are convertible into approximately 6.0 million common
shares of the Company and carry a yield to maturity of 2.375%. The Company may
redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time on or after January
22, 2004. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the
notes for cash and/or Company common stock, at the Company's option, on January
22, 2004 or on January 22, 2011.

         In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap
agreements for the term of the notes due 2008 having a notional principal
amount of $100 million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of
the notes will be the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. In
February 2002, the Company acquired three companies, Viridor Instrumentation
Limited, Marconi Commerce Systems, formerly known as Gilbarco, and Marconi Data
Systems, formerly known as Videojet Technologies for a combined total purchase
price of approximately $853 million. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a further discussion of these subsequent events.

         In March 2002 the Company issued 6.9 million shares of the Company's
common stock. Proceeds of the common stock issuance, net of related expenses
were approximately $467 million. The Company intends to use the proceeds to
repay up to $230 million of borrowings incurred by the Company under
uncommitted lines of credit and for general corporate purposes, including
future acquisitions.




         In 2000, the Company acquired American Precision Industries,
Kollmorgen Corporation, Warner Electric Motion and five smaller businesses for
a total of $707 million in cash. In 1999, the Company acquired Atlas Copco
Controls and two smaller businesses for a total of $65 million. See Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of the impact of
acquisitions.

         As discussed previously, as of December 31, 2001, $267 million of the
Company's debt is fixed at a rate of 6.25%, $250 million is fixed at an average
interest cost of 6% (subject to the interest rate swaps described above) and
$529 million is fixed at a rate of 2.375%. Substantially all remaining
borrowings are short-term in nature and float with referenced base rates. As of
December 31, 2001, the Company has unutilized commitments under its revolving
credit facility of $500 million. As of December 31, 2001, the Company held $707
million of cash and cash equivalents which were invested in highly liquid
investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less. The
majority of these investments, in addition to $230 million in short-term
borrowings, were used in connection with the acquisitions of three companies in
February 2002. Interest income of $22.4 million was recognized in 2001.

          Operating cash flow has been strong in all periods reported herein.
Operations generated $608 million, $512 million and $419 million in cash in
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The principal use of funds has been capital
expenditures of $81 million, $89 million, and $89 million in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively, and net cash paid for acquisitions of $407 million, $707
million and $65 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. In the third and
fourth quarter of 2001, the Company repurchased $17.3 million of the Company's
common stock. During the first quarter of 2000, the Company repurchased $82
million of its common stock. The net result of the above, combined with working
capital changes, was an increase in debt of $396 million in 2001, an increase
in debt of $421 million in 2000, and a decrease in debt of $130 million in
1999.

         Operating cash flow is an important source of liquidity for the
Company. The Company attempts to maximize the cash flow from our operating
businesses and attempts to keep the working capital employed in the business to
the minimum level required for efficient operations. A decrease in demand for
the Company's products would reduce the availability of funds generated from
operations.

         A subsidiary of the Company has sold, with limited recourse, certain
of its accounts and accounts receivable. Amounts outstanding under this program
approximated $92 million as of December 31, 2001. The subsidiary accounts for
this sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishment of Liabilities- a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125." A
provision for estimated losses as a result of the limited recourse has been
included in accrued expenses. No gain or loss arose from these transactions.

         The following summarizes certain of the Company's contractual
obligations at December 31, 2001 and the effect such obligations are expected
to have on the Company's liquidity and cash flow in future periods. During the
ordinary course of business the Company enters




into short-term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for
manufacture. In general these commitments do not extend for more than a few
months.

                                             Payments due by Period
                                               (in thousands)

                           Total    Less than 1 Year   1-3 Years  >3 Years

Long-term debt (a)      $1,191,689     $ 72,356       $327,186    $792,147
Non-cancelable
   operating leases (b)    150,000       37,000         73,000      40,000
                           -------       ------         ------      ------

Total                   $1,341,689     $109,356       $400,186    $832,147
                        ==========     ========       ========    ========

      (a)  As described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
           Statements

      (b)  As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
           Statements

          In addition to the obligations included above, the Company has
guaranteed approximately $25 million of accrued expenses and other liabilities
under bank letters of credit as of December 31, 2001.

          Aside from the sale of accounts receivable described above and the
leases included in the table above, the Company has not entered into any
off-balance sheet financing arrangements as of December 31, 2001. Also, the
Company does not have any unconsolidated special purpose entities as of
December 31, 2001.

           The Company's funds provided from operations, as well as the
existing bank facility and available credit lines, should provide sufficient
available funds to meet the Company's working capital, capital expenditure,
dividend and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future.

           Management's discussion and analysis of the Company's financial
condition and results of operations are based upon the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these
financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and
related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis,
the Company evaluates these estimates, including those related to bad debts,
inventories, intangible assets, pensions and other post-retirement benefits,
income taxes, and contingencies and litigation. The Company bases these
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.




           The Company believes the following critical accounting policies
affect management's more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. For a detailed discussion
on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 in our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

- - Accounts receivables. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts
  for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Company's customers
  to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were
  to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments,
  additional allowances may be required.

- - Inventory. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market. The
  estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and related
  pricing. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected
  by management, reductions in the value of inventory may be required.

- - Acquired intangibles. The Company's business acquisitions typically result in
  goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future
  period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we will
  incur. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires
  management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Company's
  Consolidated Financial Statements.

- - Long-lived assets. The Company periodically evaluates the net realizable
  value of long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, relying
  on a number of factors including operating results, budgets, economic
  projections and anticipated future cash flows.

- - Purchase accounting. In connection with its acquisitions, management assesses
  and formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired
  entity. This process begins during the due diligence process and is concluded
  within twelve months of the acquisition. The Company accrues estimates for
  certain costs related to these acquisitions, in accordance with Emerging
  Issues Task Force Issue No. 95-3, "Recognition of Liabilities in connection
  with a Purchase Business Combination."

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
- ------------------------

         In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations."
This statement requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all
business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and establishes specific
criteria for the recognition of intangible assets separately from goodwill. The
Company has followed the requirements of this statement for business
acquisitions made after June 30, 2001. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

         In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and




Other Intangible Assets." This statement requires that goodwill and intangible
assets deemed to have an indefinite life not be amortized. Instead of
amortizing goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life,
the statement requires a test for impairment to be performed annually, or
immediately if conditions indicate that such an impairment could exist. This
statement is effective January 1, 2002. The Company intends to adopt the
statement effective January 1, 2002. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 142, the
Company will no longer record goodwill amortization of approximately $62
million per year. Using the fair value measurement requirement, rather than the
undiscounted cash flows approach, the Company expects to record an impairment
from the implementation of SFAS No.  142 as a change in accounting principle in
the first quarter of 2002. The initial evaluation of reporting units on a fair
value basis, as required from the implementation of SFAS No. 142, indicates
that an impairment exists at reporting units within the Company's power quality
business unit. Based upon the initial evaluation, the estimated range of
impairment is between approximately $150 million and $200 million,
approximately 7% to 9% of goodwill recorded as of December 31, 2001. However,
once impairment is determined at a reporting unit, SFAS No. 142 requires that
the amount of goodwill impairment be determined based on what the balance of
goodwill would have been if purchase accounting were applied at the date of
impairment. The Company has not completed that analysis, but the Company
expects to complete this analysis prior to reporting the quarter ended March
29, 2002. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value, an
impairment loss must be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Once an
impairment loss is recognized, the adjusted carrying amount of goodwill will be
its new accounting basis. The actual amount of impairment could be
significantly different than the range provided above. The Company is currently
measuring the amount of impairment of goodwill to be recorded from adopting the
standard.

         The following table provides the comparable effects of adoptions of
SFAS No. 142 for the three years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

                                               For the Years Ended December 31:
                                                          (in thousands
                                              except earning per share amounts)

                                                  2001       2000         1999
                                                  ----       ----         ----

Reported Net Income                             $297,665   $324,213    $261,624

Add back:  Goodwill Amortization (net of tax)     54,978     45,995      35,450
                                               ---------  ---------   ---------

Adjusted Net Income                             $352,643   $370,208    $297,074
                                                ========   ========    ========


                                                     Basic Net Income per Share
                                                 2001          2000       1999
                                                 ----          ----       ----

Reported Net Income                                $2.07       $2.28      $1.84

Add Back:  Goodwill Amortization (net of tax)        .39         .32        .25
                                                --------   ---------   --------

Adjusted Net Income per Basic Share                $2.46       $2.60      $2.09
                                                ========   =========   ========




                                                Diluted Net Income per Share
                                                 2001         2000        1999
                                                 ----         ----        ----

Reported Net Income                              $2.01        $2.23       $1.79

Add Back:  Goodwill Amortization (net of tax)      .36          .31         .24
                                                ------       ------     -------

Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share            $2.37        $2.54       $2.03
                                                 =====        =====       =====

        In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations." SFAS No. 143 addresses accounting and reporting for obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated
asset retirement costs. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2002. The Company does not believe that implementation of this
SFAS will have a material impact on its financial statements.

        In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," which supersedes SFAS No. 121.
Though it retains the basic requirements of SFAS No. 121 regarding when and how
to measure an impairment loss, SFAS No. 144 provides additional implementation
guidance. SFAS No. 144 applies to long-lived assets to be held and used or to
be disposed of, including assets under capital leases of lessees; assets
subject to operating leases of lessors; and prepaid assets. SFAS No. 144 also
expands the scope of a discontinued operation to include a component of an
entity, and eliminates the current exemption to consolidation when control over
a subsidiary is likely to be temporary. This statement is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company does not believe that
implementation of this SFAS will have a material impact on its financial
statements.

ITEM 7A. The information required by this item is included under Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.




8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
   (in thousands, except per share data)



The accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral
part of these statements.




DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands)



The accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral
part of these balance sheets.




DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)



The accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral
part of these statements.




DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
(in thousands)



The accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral
part of these statements.




(1)      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

         Accounting Principles - The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. The accounts of certain of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries are included on the basis of a fiscal year ending
November 30. This procedure was adopted to allow sufficient time to include
these companies in the consolidated financial statements. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.

         Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

         Inventory Valuation - Inventories include material, labor and overhead
and are stated principally at the lower of cost or market using the last-in,
first-out method (LIFO).

         Property, Plant and Equipment - Property, plant and equipment are
carried at cost. The provision for depreciation has been computed principally by
the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives (3 to 35 years) of
the depreciable assets.

         Other Assets - Other assets include principally deferred income taxes,
assets held for sale, noncurrent trade receivables and capitalized costs
associated with obtaining financings which are amortized over the term of the
related debt.

         Fair Value of Financial Instruments - For cash and equivalents, the
carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value. For long-term debt,
rates available for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities are used to
estimate the fair value of existing debt.

         Excess of Cost Over Net Assets of Acquired Companies - Through December
31, 2001, this asset was being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years,
except for acquisitions completed after June 30, 2001, which are not amortized
(see Note 16). $64,705,000, $48,586,000, and $37,268,000 of amortization was
charged to expense for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Through December 31, 2001 and when events and circumstances so
indicate, all long-term assets, including the excess of cost over net assets of
acquired companies, were assessed for recoverability based upon cash flow
forecasts (see Note 16).

         Shipping and Handling - Shipping and handling costs are included as a
component of cost of sales. Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are
included in sales.

         Revenue Recognition - Revenue is recognized when title to a product has
transferred and any significant customer obligations have been fulfilled.




         Foreign Currency Translation - Exchange adjustments resulting from
foreign currency transactions are generally recognized in net earnings, whereas
adjustments resulting from the translation of financial statements are reflected
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders'
equity. Net foreign currency transaction gains or losses are not material in any
of the years presented.

         Cash and Equivalents - The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to
be cash equivalents.

         Income Taxes - The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes." The Company provides income taxes for unremitted earnings of foreign
subsidiaries which are not considered permanently reinvested in that operation.

         Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income - This consists of primarily
cumulative foreign translation loss adjustments of $69,736,000, $59,130,000, and
$34,105,000 for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

         New Accounting Pronouncements - See Note 16.

(2)  ACQUISITIONS:

           In connection with its acquisitions, the Company assesses and
formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. This
process begins during the due diligence process and is concluded within twelve
months of the acquisition. The Company accrues estimates for certain costs
related to these acquisitions, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force
Issue No. 95-3, "Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase
Business Combination."

         On January 2, 2001, the Company acquired United Power Corporation. The
consideration was approximately $108 million. The fair value of the assets
acquired was approximately $117 million, and approximately $9 million of
liabilities were assumed and accrued. The transaction is being accounted for as
a purchase. In addition, the Company acquired 11 small companies, primarily
additions to the Process/Environmental Controls Segment, for total consideration
of approximately $331 million. All acquisitions have been accounted for as
purchases. The fair value of the assets acquired of the 11 smaller acquired
companies was approximately $393 million, and approximately $62 million of
liabilities were assumed and accrued. Based on the preliminary allocations of
purchase price, the acquisitions noted above included approximately $17 million
of intangible assets with an average finite life of 10 years, including patents
and trademarks, and approximately $369 million of goodwill and indefinite life
intangible assets. Other increases in goodwill resulted primarily from the
finalization of purchase price allocations related to acquisitions consummated
in 2000. The Company also disposed of two small product lines during the year,
yielding cash proceeds of approximately $32 million. There were no material
gains or losses recognized on the sale of these product lines.




         On July 3, 2000, the motion control businesses of Warner Electric
Company were acquired and merged into the Company. These businesses were
purchased from an entity that was controlled by Steven M. Rales and Mitchell P.
Rales, the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Executive
Committee, respectively. The transaction was unanimously recommended by an
independent committee of the Company's Board of Directors, who received an
opinion from an independent financial advisor as to the fairness of the
transaction. Total consideration was approximately $147 million. The fair value
of the assets acquired was approximately $204 million, and approximately $57
million of liabilities were assumed and accrued. The transaction is being
accounted for as a purchase.

         On June 20, 2000, Kollmorgen Corporation was acquired and merged into
the Company. Total consideration was approximately $363 million, including the
assumption of approximately $96 million of debt. The fair value of the assets
acquired was approximately $461 million, and approximately $194 million of
liabilities, including assumed debt, were assumed and accrued. The transaction
is being accounted for as a purchase.

         On March 27, 2000, American Precision Industries was acquired and
merged into the Company. Total consideration was approximately $246 million,
including assumption of approximately $60 million of debt. The fair value of the
assets acquired was approximately $283 million, and approximately $97 million of
liabilities, including assumed debt, were assumed and accrued. The transaction
is being accounted for as a purchase.

         The above three transactions, in addition to several smaller
transactions in 2000, resulted in approximately $719 million of additional
excess cost over net assets for companies acquired in 2000.

         On July 14, 1999, Hach Company was acquired and merged into the
Company. The Company issued 0.2987 shares of common stock in exchange for each
outstanding share of Hach; 6,594,430 shares were exchanged for all outstanding
Hach shares. The transaction was a tax-free reorganization and was accounted for
as a pooling-of-interests. Accordingly, the 1999 and prior financial statements
were restated to reflect the combined companies. Reflected in other expense is a
one-time charge of $11.8 million ($9.8 million after-tax or $.07 per diluted
share) to reflect the costs of the transaction and the elimination of redundant
activities and operations. The majority of these costs are cash expenses and
were incurred during 1999.

         The unaudited pro forma information for the periods set forth below
gives effect to these transactions as if they had occurred at the beginning of
the period. The pro forma information is presented for informational purposes
only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that
actually would have been achieved had the significant acquisitions been
consummated as of that time (unaudited, 000's omitted):

       Year ended December 31,        2001          2000          1999
       ------------------------     ----------   ---------     ---------

Net sales . . . . .. . . . . . .   $3,898,447   $4,296,385   $ 3,972,511
Net earnings . . . . .. . . ..        299,878      325,365       242,159
Earnings per share (diluted) . .   $     2.02   $     2.24   $      1.66




(3)  RESTRUCTURING CHARGE:

         In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a restructuring
charge of $69.7 million ($43.5 million after tax, or $.29 per share). During the
fourth quarter of 2001, management determined that it would restructure certain
of its product lines, principally its drill chuck, power quality, and industrial
controls businesses due to deteriorating financial performance, and higher cost
excess facility capacity. Severance costs for the termination of approximately
1,100 employees approximates $49 million. Approximately $16 million of the
charge was to write-off assets associated with the closure of 16 facilities in
North America and Europe. The remainder of the charge of $5 million was for
other exit costs including lease termination costs. The majority of the cash
expenditures and cost savings related to the restructuring are expected to be
spent and realized in 2002. In conjunction with the closing of the facilities,
approximately $4 million of inventory was written off as unusable in future
operating locations. The inventory write-off was included in Cost of Sales in
the fourth quarter of 2001 and is not included as part of the restructuring
charge in 2001.

(4)  EARNINGS PER SHARE  (EPS):

         Basic EPS is calculated by dividing earnings by the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted EPS is
calculated after adjusting the numerator and the denominator of the basic EPS
calculation for the effect of all potential dilutive common shares outstanding
during the period. Information related to the calculation of earnings per share
of common stock is summarized as follows:

                                      (in thousands, except per share amounts)

                                        Net Earnings     Shares      Per Share
                                         (Numerator) (Denominator)      Amount
                                      ----------------------------------------

For the Year Ended
December 31, 2001
Basic EPS:                                $ 297,665     143,630        $  2.07
     Adjustment for interest on
         convertible debentures:              7,246          --
     Incremental shares from
         assumed exercise of
         dilutive options:                       --       2,618
     Incremental shares from
         assumed conversion of
         the convertible debenture:              --       5,600
                                          ----------------------

Diluted EPS:                              $ 304,911     151,848        $  2.01
                                          =========     =======        =======


                                        Net Earnings     Shares      Per Share
                                         (Numerator)  (Denominator)     Amount
                                      ----------------------------------------

For the Year Ended
December 31, 2000
Basic EPS:                                $324,213       142,469         $2.28
     Incremental shares from
         assumed exercise of
         dilutive options:                      --         3,030
                                          -----------------------




Diluted EPS:                              $324,213       145,499         $2.23
                                          ========       =======         =====

                                       Net Earnings      Shares      Per Share
                                        (Numerator)   (Denominator)     Amount
                                      ----------------------------------------

For the Year Ended
December 31, 1999
Basic EPS:                                $261,624       141,832         $1.84
     Incremental shares from
         assumed exercise of
         dilutive options:                      --         4,257
                                          -----------------------

Diluted EPS:                              $261,624       146,089         $1.79
                                          ========       =======         =====

(5)  INVENTORY:

         The major classes of inventory are summarized as follows (000's
omitted):

                                 December 31, 2001    December 31, 2000
                                 -----------------    -----------------
Finished goods...............      $   131,316          $    152,509
Work in process..............           95,119                95,402
Raw material.................          181,801               212,699
                                   -----------          ------------
                                   $   408,236          $    460,610
                                   ===========          ============

         If the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method had been used for inventories
valued at LIFO cost, such inventories would have been $12,229,000 and
$11,177,000 higher at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.


(6)  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

         The major classes of property, plant and equipment are summarized as
follows (000's omitted):

                                 December 31, 2001    December 31, 2000
                                 -----------------    -----------------
Land and improvements........      $    31,641          $     29,692
Buildings....................          287,655               248,024
Machinery and equipment......          945,698               930,388
                                   -----------          ------------
                                     1,264,994             1,208,104
Less accumulated depreciation         (731,422)             (632,573)
                                   -----------          ------------
                                   $   533,572          $    575,531
                                   ===========          ============

(7)  FINANCING:

         Financing consists of the following (000's omitted):

                                 December 31, 2001    December 31, 2000
                                 -----------------    -----------------

Notes payable due 2008..........    $  250,000            $  250,000
Notes payable due 2005..........       266,850               282,780




Notes payable due 2003..........        30,000                30,000
Zero-coupon convertible senior
   notes due 2021                      529,096                    --
Uncommitted lines of credit.....        10,000               115,000
Other...........................       105,743               117,410
                                    ----------            ----------
                                     1,191,689               795,190
Less-currently payable..........        72,356                81,633
                                    ----------            ----------
                                    $1,119,333            $  713,557
                                    ==========            ==========

         The Notes due 2008 were issued in October 1998 at an average interest
cost of 6.1%. The carrying amount approximates fair value. In January 2002, the
Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the notes
due 2008 having a notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the
effective net interest rate on $100 million of the Notes will be the six-month
LIBOR rate plus approximately .425%. Rates are reset twice per year. Effective
January 2002, net interest rate on $100 million of the Notes was 2.33% after
giving effect to the interest rate swap agreement. In accordance with SFAS No.
133, the interest rate swap ("swap") agreement is accounted for as a fair value
hedge and accordingly, the value of the swap will be recorded at fair value and
changes in fair value will be reflected in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income.

         The Notes due 2005 (the Eurobond Notes), with a stated amount of EU 300
million were issued in July 2000 and bear interest at 6.25% per annum. The
carrying amount of the Eurobond Notes approximates fair value.

         The Notes due 2003 had an original average life of approximately 10
years and an average interest cost of 7%. The carrying amount approximates fair
value.

        In January 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in
zero-coupon convertible senior notes due 2021 known as Liquid Yield Option Notes
or LYONS. The net proceeds to the Company were approximately $505 million. The
LYONS are convertible into approximately 6.0 million common shares of the
Company, and carry a yield to maturity of 2.375%. The Company may redeem all or
a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time on or after January 22, 2004.
Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for
cash and/or Company stock, at the Company's option, on January 22, 2004 or on
January 22, 2011.

         The borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit are principally
short-term borrowings payable upon demand. The carrying amount approximates fair
value. The weighted-average interest rate for short-term borrowings under the
uncommitted lines of credit was 5.0%, 6.2% and 5.3% for each of the three years
ended December 31, 2001.

         The Company also has a bank credit facility which provides revolving
credit through June 26, 2006, of up to $500 million, replacing a $250 million
credit facility in place through June 2001. The facility provides funds for
general corporate purposes at an interest rate of Eurocurrency rate plus .21% to
 .70%, depending on the Company's current debt rating. There were no borrowings
under the bank facilities during the three years ended December 31, 2001. The
Company is charged a fee of .065% to .175% per annum for the




facility, depending on the Company's current debt rating. Commitment and
facility fees of $301,000, $190,000, and $190,000 were incurred in 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively.

         The Company has complied with all debt covenants, including limitations
on secured debt and debt levels. None of the Company's debt instruments contain
trigger clauses requiring the Company to repurchase or pay off its debt if
rating agencies downgrade the Company's debt rating.

         The minimum principal payments during the next five years are as
follows: 2002 - $72,356,000; 2003 - $59,113,000; 2004 - $820,000; 2005 -
$267,253,000; 2006 - $387,000; and $791,760,000 thereafter.

         The Company made interest payments of $38,789,000, $21,057,000 and
$16,348,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

(8)  ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LIABILITIES:

         Selected accrued expenses and other liabilities include the following
(000's omitted):

                                     December 31, 2001         December 31, 2000
                                     -----------------         -----------------

                                    Current    Noncurrent   Current   Noncurrent
                                    -------   -----------   -------   ----------

Compensation and benefits         $ 157,516   $  71,959   $ 194,205    $ 68,618
Claims, including self-
  insurance and litigation           44,951      79,468      40,553      77,590
Postretirement benefits               5,000      74,600       5,000      77,400
Environmental and
  regulatory compliance              36,202      62,541      31,422      55,861
Taxes, income and other             146,717     148,209     149,004      66,499
Sales and product allowances         51,063          --      54,115          --
Warranty                             30,542      10,180      31,633      10,544
Restructuring costs (See Note 3)     51,365          --          --          --

         Approximately $25.4 million of accrued expenses and other liabilities
were guaranteed by bank letters of credit as of December 31, 2001.

(9)  PENSION AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

         The Company has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans which
cover certain of its domestic hourly employees. Benefit accruals under most of
these plans have ceased, and pension expense for defined benefit plans is not
significant for any of the periods presented. It is the Company's policy to
fund, at a minimum, amounts required by the Internal Revenue Service.

         In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits for some of its retired employees.
Certain employees may become eligible for these benefits as they reach normal
retirement age while working for the Company.
         The following sets forth the funded status of the plans as of the most
recent actuarial valuations using a measurement date of




September 30 (millions):



For measurement purposes, an eleven percent annual rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed in 2002. The rate was
assumed to decrease to six percent by 2007 and remain at that level thereafter.



        The Company acquired Kollmorgen Corporation on June 20, 2000, including
their pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Company acquired American
Precision Industries on March 27, 2000, including their pension plans.

         Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage point change in
assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:




                                    One-Percentage         One-Percentage
                                    Point Increase         Point Decrease
                                    --------------         --------------

Effect on total of service and
  interest cost components.........      $0.7                   $(0.6)
Effect on postretirement benefit
  obligation.......................       8.0                    (6.9)

         Substantially all employees not covered by defined benefit plans are
covered by defined contribution plans, which generally provide funding based on
a percentage of compensation.

         Pension expense for all plans amounted to $38,002,000, $36,555,000, and
$35,624,000 for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

(10)  STOCK TRANSACTIONS:

         On March 1, 2001, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an
increase in the number of common shares to be issued under the Company's
non-qualified stock option plan to 22.5 million from 15.0 million. The Company's
stockholders approved this increase in May 2001. Under the plan, options are
granted at not less than existing market prices, expire ten years from the date
of grant and generally vest ratably over a five-year period.

         Changes in stock options were as follows:

                                             Number of Shares
                                               Under Option
                                                (thousands)
                                                -----------

Outstanding at December 31, 1998
  (average $17.26 per share)                       10,305

Granted (average $49.66 per share)                    942
Exercised (average $9.54 per share)                  (738)

Cancelled                                            (292)
                                                ----------


Outstanding at December 31, 1999
  (average $20.48 per share)                       10,217
                                                ==========

Granted (average $52.56 per share)                  3,268

Exercised (average $12.95 per share)               (1,615)

Cancelled                                          (1,119)
                                                 ---------


Outstanding at December 31, 2000                   10,751
                                                 =========
  (average
   $31.65 per share)

Granted (average $48.21 per share)                  1,546

Exercised (average $14.13 per share)               (1,677)




Cancelled                                            (597)
                                                 ---------

Outstanding at December 31, 2001                   10,023
                                                 =========
   (at $5.03 to $68.31 per share, average
    $38.28 per share)

         As of December 31, 2001, options with a weighted average remaining life
of 5.7 years covering 4,370,587 shares were exercisable at $5.03 to $68.31 per
share (average $33.25 per share) and options covering 7,113,000 shares remain
available to be granted.

         Options outstanding at December 31, 2001 are summarized below:

                            Outstanding                Exercisable
                         -----------------------      -------------
                              Average   Average                  Average
     Exercise                Exercise  Remaining                Exercise
       Price       Shares       Price     Life        Shares       Price
      -------      ------       -----     ----       -------       -----
                 (thousands)                       (thousands)

$5.03 to $7.47       88     $  6.14      1 year         88       $  6.14
$7.97 to $11.75     602       10.18      2 years       602         10.18
$14.13 to $20.81    423       16.57      4 years       421         16.46
$21.25 to $32.22  2,883       24.02      5 years     2,020         23.66
$35.19 to $68.31  6,027       49.89      9 years     1,240         67.67

         Nonqualified options have been issued only at fair market value
exercise prices as of the date of grant during the periods presented herein, and
the Company's policy does not recognize compensation costs for options of this
type. The pro-forma costs of these options granted have been calculated using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model and assuming a 5.05% risk-free interest
rate, a 10-year life for the option, a 35.95% expected volatility and dividends
at the current annual rate. The weighted-average grant date fair market value of
options issued was $48 per share in 2001, $32 per share in 2000, and $28 per
share in 1999. Had this method been used in the determination of income, net
earnings would have decreased by approximately $20.3 million in 2001, $17.9
million in 2000, and $10.7 million in 1999 and diluted earnings per share would
have decreased by $.13 in 2001, $.12 in 2000, and $.07 in 1999. These proforma
amounts may not be representative of the effects on proforma net earnings for
future years.

         In the third and fourth quarters of 2001, the Company repurchased
375,500 shares of the Company's common stock for total consideration of $17.3
million. In the first quarter of 2000, the Company repurchased 2,042,300 shares
of the Company's common stock for total consideration of $82.2 million.

(11)  LEASES AND COMMITMENTS:

         The Company's leases extend for varying periods of time up to 10 years
and, in some cases, contain renewal options. Future minimum rental payments for
all operating leases having initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in
excess of one year are $37,000,000 in 2002, $30,000,000 in 2003, $26,000,000 in
2004, $17,000,000 in 2005,




$11,000,000 in 2006, and $29,000,000 thereafter. Total rent expense charged to
income for all operating leases was $42,000,000, $35,000,000, and $34,000,000,
for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

(12) LITIGATION AND CONTINGENCIES:

         A former subsidiary of the Company is engaged in litigation in multiple
states with respect to product liability. The Company sold the subsidiary in
1987. Under the terms of the sale agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify the
buyer of the subsidiary for product liability related to tools manufactured by
the subsidiary prior to June 4, 1987. The cases involve approximately 3,000
plaintiffs in state and federal courts in multiple states. All other major U.S.
air tool manufacturers are also defendants. The gravamen of these complaints is
that the defendants' air tools, when used in different types of manufacturing
environments over extended periods of time, were defective in design and caused
various physical injuries. The plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive
damages. The Company has accepted an agreement, in principle, to settle these
claims. Completion of this settlement agreement will not result in a material
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.

         A subsidiary, Joslyn Manufacturing Company (JMC), previously operated
wood-treating facilities that chemically preserved utility poles, pilings and
railroad ties. All such treating operations were discontinued or sold prior to
1982. These facilities used wood preservatives that included creosote,
pentachlorophenol and chromium-arsenic-copper. While preservatives were handled
in accordance with then existing law, environmental law now imposes retroactive
liability, in some circumstances, on persons who owned or operated wood-treating
sites. JMC is remediating some of its former sites and will remediate other
sites in the future. The Company has made a provision for environmental
remediation; however, there can be no assurance that estimates of environmental
liabilities will not change.

       In addition to the litigation noted above, the Company is, from time to
time, subject to routine litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits
primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Company's
products, some of which include claims for punitive as well as compensatory
damages. The Company is also involved in proceedings with respect to
environmental matters, including sites where it has been identified as a
potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and
regulations. The Company believes that the results of the above-noted litigation
and other pending legal proceedings will not have a materially adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations or financial condition, notwithstanding any
related insurance recoveries.

       A subsidiary of the Company has sold, with limited recourse, certain
of its accounts and notes receivable. Amounts outstanding under this program
approximated $92 million as of December 31, 2001. The subsidiary accounts for
this sale in accordance with Statement of




Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities - a replacement
of FASB Statement No. 125." A provision for estimated losses as a result of the
limited recourse has been included in accrued expenses. No gain or loss arose
from these transactions.

(13)   INCOME TAXES:

         The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31 consists
of the following (000's omitted):

                                   2001        2000      1999
                                   ----        ----      ----

Federal:
  Current.................      $ 76,666   $ 85,955   $111,809
  Deferred................        60,601     67,150     16,139
State and local...........        12,483     12,645     11,665
Foreign...................        28,849     32,961     28,325
                                 -------    -------   --------
Income tax provision......      $178,599   $198,711   $167,938
                                ========   ========   ========

         Deferred income taxes are reflected in prepaid expenses and other
current assets and in other assets. Deferred tax assets consist of the following
(000's omitted):

                                                  December 31,
                                              ------------------
                                              2001          2000
                                              ----          ----

Bad debt allowance.................        $ 20,784     $ 14,555
Inventories........................           7,929        7,672
Property, plant and equipment......         (48,655)     (47,952)
Postretirement benefits............          39,053       37,276
Insurance, including self-
   insurance.......................          22,860       27,886
LYONs interest.....................          (9,374)          --
Environmental compliance...........          25,239       22,979
Other accruals.....................         (26,166)     (15,594)
Deferred service income............         (61,702)     (35,760)
All other accounts.................         (25,844)     (10,284)
                                           ---------    ---------
Net deferred tax asset (liability).        $(55,876)    $    778
                                           =========    =========

     The effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31 varies from
the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:







         The Company made income tax payments of $52,048,000, $40,102,000 and
$114,617,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The Company recognized a tax
benefit of approximately $12,562,000, $9,165,000, and $10,055,000 in 2001, 2000,
and 1999, respectively, related to the exercise of employee stock options, which
has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital.

(14) SEGMENT DATA:

         Operating profit represents total revenues less operating expenses,
excluding other expense, interest and income taxes. The identifiable assets by
segment are those used in each segment's operations. Intersegment amounts are
eliminated to arrive at consolidated totals.

        Detailed segment data is presented in the following table (000's
omitted):

Operations in Different Industries
- -----------------------------------








(15)  QUARTERLY DATA-UNAUDITED (000'S OMITTED, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA):










(16)   NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS:

         In June 1998, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," was issued. SFAS
No. 133 as subsequently amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards
for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The Company implemented SFAS
No. 133 effective January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133 did not have a material effect
on operations.

         In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations." This
statement requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all
business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and establishes specific
criteria for the recognition of intangible assets separately from goodwill. The
Company has followed the requirements of this statement for business
acquisitions made after June 30, 2001. See Note 2.

         In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets." This statement requires that goodwill and intangible assets deemed to
have an indefinite life not be amortized. Instead of amortizing goodwill and
intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life, the statement requires a
test for impairment to be performed annually, or immediately if conditions
indicate that such an impairment could exist. This statement is effective
January 1, 2002. The Company intends to adopt the statement effective January 1,
2002. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 142, the Company will no longer record
goodwill amortization of approximately $62 million per year. Using the fair
value measurement requirement, rather than the undiscounted cash flows approach,
the Company expects to record an impairment from the implementation of SFAS No.
142 as a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2002. The
initial evaluation of reporting units on a fair value basis, as required from
the implementation of SFAS No. 142, indicates that an impairment exists at
reporting units within the Company's power business unit. Based upon the initial
evaluation, the estimated range of impairment is between approximately $150
million and $200 million (unaudited), approximately 7% to 9% of goodwill
recorded as of December 31, 2001. However, once impairment is determined at a
reporting unit, SFAS No. 142 requires that the amount of goodwill impairment be
determined based on what the balance of goodwill would have been if purchase
accounting were applied at the date of impairment. The Company has not completed
that analysis, but the Company expects to complete this analysis prior to
reporting the quarter ended March 29, 2002. If the carrying amount of




goodwill will be its new accounting basis. The actual amount of impairment
could be significantly different than the range provided above. The Company is
currently measuring the amount of impairment of goodwill to be recorded from
adopting the standard.

       The following table provides the comparable effects of adoption of SFAS
No. 142 for the three years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.



       In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations." SFAS No. 143 addresses accounting and reporting for obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated
asset retirement costs. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2002. The Company does not believe that implementation of this
SFAS will have a material impact on its financial statements.

       In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," which supersedes SFAS No. 121.
Though it retains the basic requirements of SFAS No. 121 regarding when and how
to measure an impairment loss, SFAS No. 144 provides additional implementation
guidance. SFAS No. 144 applies to long-lived assets to be held and used or to
be disposed of, including assets under capital leases of lessees; assets
subject to operating leases of lessors; and prepaid assets. SFAS No. 144 also
expands the scope of a discontinued operation to include a component of an
entity, and eliminates the current exemption to consolidation when control over
a subsidiary is




likely to be temporary. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2001. The Company does not believe that implementation of
this SFAS will have a material impact on its financial statements.

(17)  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

       On March 8, 2002 the Company completed the issuance of 6.9 million shares
of the Company's common stock. Proceeds of the common stock issuance, net of
related expenses were approximately $467 million. The Company intends to use
the proceeds to repay up to $230 million of borrowings incurred by the Company
under uncommitted lines of credit and for general corporate purposes, including
future acquisitions.

       On February 25, 2002, the Company completed the divestiture of API Heat
Transfer, Inc. to an affiliate of Madison Capital Partners for approximately
$66 million (including $56 million in cash and a note receivable in the
principal amount of $10 million), less certain liabilities of API Heat
Transfer, Inc. paid by Danaher at closing.  API Heat Transfer, Inc. was part of
the Company's acquisition of American Precision Industries, Inc. and was
recorded as an asset held for sale as of the time of the acquisition.

       On February 5, 2002, the Company closed the acquisition of Marconi Data
Systems, formerly known as Videojet Technologies, from Marconi plc for
approximately $400 million in cash. Videojet Technologies, with approximately
$300 million in revenues, is a worldwide leader in the market for non-contact
product marking equipment and consumables.  Videojet Technologies is being
included in the Company's Process/Environmental Controls segment.

       On February 4, 2002, the Company closed the acquisition of Viridor
Instrumentation Limited from the Pennon Group plc for approximately $135
million in cash. Viridor, with $75 million in revenues, designs and
manufactures analytical instruments for clean water, wastewater, ultrapure
water and other fluids and materials. Viridor is being included in the
Company's Process/Environmental Controls segment.

       On February 1, 2002, the Company closed the acquisition of Marconi
Commerce Systems, formerly known as Gilbarco, from Marconi plc for
approximately $318 million in cash in addition to $7 million of assumed net
debt. Gilbarco, with approximately $500 million in revenues, is a global leader
in retail automation and environmental products and services. Gilbarco is being
included in the Company's Process/Environmental Controls segment.




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of
Directors of Danaher Corporation:

       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Danaher
Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001
and 2000, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2001. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

       We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

       In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Danaher Corporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

                                                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Baltimore, Maryland
January 23, 2002
(except with respect to the
matter discussed in Note 17,
as to which the date is
March 8, 2002)




ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        NONE

PART III

ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.

        The information required under Items 10 through 13 is included in the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2002 annual meeting, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  a)   Financial Statements and Schedules
       The financial statements are set forth under item 8 of this report on
       Form 10-K. An index of Exhibits and Schedules is on page 44 of this
       report. Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted from
       this Annual Report because they are not required, are not applicable or
       the required information is included in the financial statements or the
       notes thereto.

  b)   Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of 2001.

    NONE




                              DANAHER CORPORATION
            INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND
                        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                                 Page Number in:
                                                 ---------------

                                                    Form 10K
                                                    --------
Schedules:
- ----------

Report of Independent Public
Accountants on Schedule                                48

II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                 49




Exhibits:
- ---------

(3) Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws



(10) Material Contracts:








(21) Subsidiaries of Registrant                                      Exhibit 21

(23) Consent of Independent Public Accountants                       Exhibit 23

(99) Letter to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission               Exhibit 99
     concerning Arthur Andersen LLP




                                  SIGNATURES

       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                             DANAHER CORPORATION

                             By:    /s/ H. LAWRENCE CULP, JR.
                                  ----------------------------
                                    H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.
                                    President and Chief
                                    Executive Officer

Date: March 28, 2002

/s/  H. LAWRENCE CULP, JR.      President and Chief Executive Officer
- --------------------------
     H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.

/s/  STEVEN M. RALES            Chairman of the Board
- -----------------------
     Steven M. Rales

/s/  MITCHELL P. RALES          Chairman of the Executive Committee
- -----------------------
     Mitchell P. Rales

/s/  WALTER G. LOHR, JR.        Director
- ------------------------
     Walter G. Lohr, Jr.

/s/  DONALD J. EHRLICH          Director
- ----------------------
     Donald J. Ehrlich

/s/  MORTIMER M. CAPLIN         Director
- -----------------------
     Mortimer M. Caplin

/s/  ALAN G. SPOON              Director
- ------------------
     Alan G. Spoon

/s/  A. EMMET STEPHENSON, JR.   Director
- -----------------------------
     A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr.

/s/  PATRICK W. ALLENDER        Executive Vice President-Chief Financial
- ------------------------
     Patrick W. Allender         Officer and Secretary

/s/  CHRISTOPHER C. MCMAHON     Vice President and Controller
- ---------------------------
     Christopher C. McMahon




                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

                     ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To Danaher Corporation:

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, the consolidated financial statements of Danaher Corporation and
Subsidiaries included in this registration statement and have issued our report
thereon dated January 23, 2002 (except with respect to the matter discussed in
Note 17, as to which the date is March 8, 2002). Our audit was made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole. The schedules listed in the index are the responsibility of the
Company's management and are presented for purposes of complying with the
securities and exchange commission's rules and are not a part of the
consolidated financial statements. These schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the consolidated financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole.

                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Baltimore, Maryland
January 23, 2002




                     DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                               (000's omitted)

                                    Additions

                                                      Write
                     Balance    Charged               Offs,
Classification          at        to      Charged     Write     Balance
                    Beginning   Costs       to        Downs     at End
                        of        &       other         &         of
                     Period    Expenses   Accounts  Deductions  Period
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Year Ended December 31, 2001

Allowances deducted
from asset account:

Allowance for
doubtful accounts:   $37,000   $18,542   $ 3,571(a)  $15,113    $44,000
                     =======   =======   =======     =======    =======

Year Ended December 31, 2000

Allowances deducted
from asset accounts:

Allowance for
doubtful accounts:   $28,000   $11,723   $ 4,302(a)  $ 7,025    $37,000
                     =======   =======   =======     =======    =======

Year Ended December 31, 1999

Allowances deducted
from asset accounts:

Allowance for
doubtful accounts    $24,000   $10,756   $   185(a)  $ 6,941    $28,000
                     =======   =======   =======     =======    =======

Notes:(a) - Amounts related to businesses acquired, net of amounts related to
            businesses disposed.



