
10-K405
FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[ X ]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                       OR
[   ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the transition period from ____to___Commission File Number:1-8089
                                                                    ------

                              DANAHER CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  202-828-0850

          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      NONE

                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

     Yes  X                              No
         ---                                ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]

As of March 17, 2000, the number of shares of common stock outstanding was
141.3 million and were held by approximately 3,500 holders.  The aggregate
market value of common shares held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on such
date was approximately $4.1 billion, based upon the closing price of the
Company's common shares as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape
on such date.



                        EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 14



                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part II and Part IV incorporate certain information by reference from the
registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1999.
With the exception of the pages of the Annual Report to Shareholders
specifically incorporated herein by reference, the Annual Report to Shareholders
is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K.

Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the registrant's
proxy statement for its 2000 annual meeting of stockholders.  With the exception
of the pages of the 2000 Proxy Statement specifically incorporated herein by
reference, the 2000 Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this
Form 10-K.

Certain information included or incorporated by reference in this document may
be deemed to be "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements, other
than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or
developments that the Company intends, expects, projects, believes or
anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward looking statements.
Such statements are characterized by terminology such as "believe,"
"anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "expects," "estimates,"
"projects," "positioned," "strategy," and similar expressions. These statements
are based on assumptions and assessments made by the Company management in light
of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions,
expected future developments and other factors it believes to be appropriate.
These forward looking statements are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties, including but not limited to continuation of the Company's
longstanding relationship with major customers, the Company's ability to
integrate acquired businesses into its operations and realize planned synergies,
the extent to which acquired businesses are able to meet the Company's
expectations and operate profitably, changes in regulations (particularly
environmental regulations) which could affect demand for products in the
Process/Environmental Controls segment and unanticipated developments that could
occur with respect to contingencies such as environmental matters and
litigation.  In addition, the Company is subject to risks and uncertainties that
affect the manufacturing sector generally including, but not limited to,
economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors affecting the
Company's operations, markets, products, services and prices.  Any such forward
looking statements are not guarantees of future performances and actual results,
developments and business decisions may differ from those



envisaged by such forward looking statements. The Company disclaims any duty to
update any forward looking statements, all of which are expressly qualified by
the foregoing.

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
- -----------------

     The Company conducts its operations through two business segments:
Process/Environmental Controls and Tools and Components.

Process/Environmental Controls
- ------------------------------

     The Process/Environmental Controls segment is comprised of Hach Company,
Fluke Corporation ("Fluke"), Veeder-Root Company ("Veeder-Root"), Danaher
Controls, Partlow/West, Anderson Instruments, West Instruments, QualiTROL
Corporation, A.L. Hyde Company, Hengstler, McCrometer, the controls product line
business units of Joslyn Corporation and Pacific Scientific Company, Namco
Controls, Dolan-Jenner, Atlas Copco Controls, M&M Precision Systems,
Communications Technology Corporation, Gems Sensors and the Dr. Bruno Lange
Group.  These companies produce and sell compact, professional electronic test
tools, underground storage tank leak detection systems and motion, position,
speed, temperature, level and position instruments and sensing devices, power
switches and controls, communication line products, power protection products,
liquid flow and quality measuring devices, quality assurance products and
systems, safety devices and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling
devices. These products are distributed by the Company's sales personnel and
independent representatives to original equipment manufacturers, distributors
and other end users.

     The Company's strategy in the Process/Environmental Controls segment is to
concentrate on the rapid expansion of its key strategic product lines, including
environmental, electronic test and measurement, motion and others.  One key
product in the environmental controls product line is the Veeder-Root storage
tank leak detection system.  The Company believes that Veeder-Root is the
premier manufacturer of state-of-the-art tank measuring and leak detection
systems for underground fuel storage tanks.  Veeder-Root continues to expand its
environmental controls product and service offering to encompass applications
related to markets other than petroleum storage and to address nonregulatory
business requirements.

     The Company has a leadership position in the water quality testing and
control market, into which is sold its Hach, Dr. Lange, Pacific Scientific, and
Sigma branded products.  These products include analytical instruments used in
water quality



monitoring, and chemicals and other consumables used in the process. The Company
markets these products worldwide, both direct to end users and through
distributors.

     Fluke is engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of compact,
professional electronic test tools.  Fluke's principal products are portable
instruments that measure voltage, current, power quality, frequency,
temperature, pressure and other key functional parameters of electronic
equipment.  Fluke distributes its products in over 100 countries, serving two
major markets: industrial tools and networks.

     In its instruments product line, the Company's strategy is to continue
enhancing its global controls and instrument position by both new product
development and complementary acquisitions. Danaher's instrument companies have
significant synergies in both product offerings and channels of distribution.
The Company's plan is to leverage these synergies in product design, engineering
and manufacturing, and product marketing.

     M&M Precision Systems provides both quality assurance products and systems
which enhance both quality and manufacturing effectiveness as well as motion
products which are generally components of other devices.

     Pacific Scientific has two major product lines, motion and safety
equipment.  Nearly half of Pacific Scientific's sales consists of electric
motors, drives and controls.  The Company also manufactures and sells electronic
drives as part of its Atlas Copco Controls division.  These electric motors and
controls are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers who incorporate
them into a wide variety of products.  Pacific Scientific motors are used in
factory automation, medical, printing, plastic extrusion and molding, paper
converting, vending, textile, aerospace, fitness and many other types of
equipment.  Safety equipment includes mainly fire detection and suppression
equipment, crew restraints, flight control and pyrotechnic devices.  Safety
equipment is sold mainly in the aviation and aerospace industry.  The Company
also provides worldwide sales, service and repair of its products for airlines
and other users of safety equipment.

     Other business lines within this segment include extruded thermoplastic
mill shapes and custom molded plastic products.

     The raw materials utilized by companies in this segment  are stock items,
principally metals and plastic, electrical and electronic components.  These
materials are readily available from a number of sources in sufficient
quantities.



Tools and Components
- --------------------

     The Tools and Components segment is comprised of the Danaher Hand Tool
Group (including Special Markets, Professional Tool Division and Asian Tool
Division), Matco Tools ("Matco"), Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company ("Jacobs"),
Delta Consolidated Industries ("Delta"), Jacobs Vehicle Systems Company,
Hennessy Industries and the hardware and electrical apparatus lines of Joslyn
Manufacturing Company (JMC).  This segment is one of the largest worldwide
producers and distributors of general purpose mechanics' hand tools and
automotive specialty tools.  Other products manufactured by these companies
include tool boxes and storage devices, diesel engine retarders, wheel service
equipment, drill chucks, custom designed headed tools and components, hardware
and components for the power generation and transmission industries, high
quality precision socket screws, fasteners, and high quality miniature precision
parts.

     The Company's business strategy in this segment is focused on increasing
sales to existing customers, broadening channels of distribution, developing new
products, geographic expansion and achieving production efficiencies and
enhanced quality and customer service.

     Danaher Tool Group (DTG) is one of the largest worldwide producers of
general purpose mechanics' hand tools (primarily ratchets, sockets and wrenches)
and specialized automotive service tools for the professional and "do-it-
yourself" markets. DTG has been the principal manufacturer of Sears, Roebuck and
Co.'s Craftsman/(R)/  line of mechanics' hand tools for over 60 years.
Approximately 80% of the over 200 million pieces sold to Sears annually are sold
in tool sets that include from three to over 1,000 pieces.

     DTG's Special Markets Group sells to Sears under a five year evergreen
agreement, that requires Sears to purchase a significant portion of its annual
requirements for its private-label Craftsman  mechanics' hand tool line from
DTG, subject to certain conditions.

     For over 30 years, DTG has also been a primary supplier of specialized
automotive service tools to NAPA, which has approximately 6,100 outlets.  In
addition, DTG has been the designated supplier of general purpose mechanics'
hand tools to NAPA since 1983.  DTG specialized automotive service tools are
also sold under the K-D Tools/(R)/ brand, its industrial tools and products are
also sold under the Armstrong/(R)/ and Allen brand names, and fastener products
under the Holo-Krome/(R)/ name are sold to independent distributors and other
customers in the "do-it-yourself," professional automotive, commercial and
industrial markets.



     Professional mechanics' tools are distributed by Matco which has
approximately 1,300 independent mobile distributors who sell primarily to
individual professional mechanics.  Matco is one of the leading suppliers in
this market.

     Jacobs/(R)/ is the market leader in the drill chuck business with its
highly respected and well recognized brand name.


     Delta is a leading manufacturer of pickup truck toolboxes and industrial
storage boxes and its products are sold under the DELTA/(R)/ and JOBOX/(R)/
brand names.

     Wheel service equipment is manufactured under the Coats/(R)/, Bada/(R)/ and
Ammco/(R)/ brand names.  Products include tire changers, wheel balancers, wheel
weights and brake service equipment. Wheel service equipment is sold primarily
to wholesale distributors and national accounts.  These markets are served by
the Company's sales personnel.

     Diesel engine retarders are manufactured at Jacobs Vehicle Systems Company.
The "Jake Brake/(R)/" technology was developed by Jacobs Vehicle and represents
the leading brand of engine retarders.  The product is sold by Jacobs' sales
personnel to original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket distributors.

     JMC manufactures a wide variety of products used in the construction and
maintenance of electric power, telephone and cable television systems.  Its
products range from specialized fasteners to sophisticated castings and
forgings.  JMC also manufactures surge protection devices for the electric power
utility industry.

     The major raw materials used by this segment, including high quality steel,
are available from a variety of sources in sufficient quantities.

Patents, Licenses, etc.
- -----------------------

     The Company has patents of its own and has acquired licenses under patents
of others.  The Company does not consider that its business, as a whole, is
dependent on any single patent, group of patents, trademark or franchise.  The
Company does, however, offer many patented products and is periodically engaged
in litigation concerning patents and licenses.



Seasonal Nature of Business
- ---------------------------

     As a whole, the Company's businesses are not subject to material seasonal
fluctuations.

Backlog
- -------

     The Company's products are manufactured primarily in advance of order and
either shipped or assembled from stock.  Backlogs are not significant as sales
are often dependent on orders requiring immediate shipment from inventory.




Employee Relations
- ------------------

     At December 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 19,000 persons.
Of these, approximately 2,300 were hourly-rated unionized employees.  The
Company considers its labor relations to be good.

Research and Development
- ------------------------

     The Company's research and development expenditures were $119 million for
1999, $121 million for 1998 and $96 million for 1997.

Environmental and Safety Regulations
- ------------------------------------

     Certain of the Company's operations are subject to federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations which impose limitations on the discharge of
pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for treatment, storage
and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes.  The Company believes that it is in
substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations.

     JMC previously operated wood treating facilities that chemically preserved
utility poles, pilings and railroad ties. All such treating operations were
discontinued or sold prior to 1982.  These facilities used wood preservatives
that included creosote, pentachlorophenol and chromium-arsenic-copper.  While
preservatives were handled in accordance with then existing law, environmental
law now imposes retroactive liability, in some circumstances, on persons who
owned or operated wood-treating sites.  JMC is remediating some of its former
sites and will remediate other sites in the future. The Company has made a
provision for environmental remediation; however, there can be no assurance that
estimates of environmental liabilities will not change.



     In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company may incur costs
related to alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste
disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  For
example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which
environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the owners of those
sites and certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by
state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority.  The
Company believes that its liability, if any, for past or current waste handling
practices will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operation,
financial condition and cash flow.

     The Company must also comply with various federal, state and local safety
regulations in connection with its operations. The Company's compliance with
these regulations has had no material adverse effect on its financial condition.

Major Customers
- ---------------

     The Company has no customers which accounted for more than 10% of
consolidated sales in 1999.  The Company's largest single customer is Sears,
Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"), and although the relationship with Sears is long-
standing, the Company believes the loss or material reduction of this business
could have a material adverse effect on its operations.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

     The Company occupies over 6 million square feet of manufacturing,
distribution, service and office space at various domestic and foreign
locations.  The principal properties are listed below.  The Company believes
that its plants have adequate productive capacity and are suitably used for the
manufacture of its products and that its warehouses, distribution centers and
sales offices are suitably located and utilized for the marketing of its
products and services.











       In addition to the facilities listed, the Company owns or leases various
facilities including offices or properties in Washington, District of Columbia;
Simsbury, Connecticut; as well as facilities in Uppermill, Livingston,
Gloucester and Richmond, Great Britain; Melbourne and Sydney, Australia; Nagoya,
Osaka and Tokyo, Japan; Toronto, Canada; Paris, Bron, Toulouse, Lyon, Bordeaux,
Tours and Selestat, France; and Stuttgart, Germany.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

       A former subsidiary of the Company is engaged in litigation in several
states with respect to product liability. The Company sold the subsidiary in
1987.  Under the terms of the sale agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify
the buyer of the subsidiary for product liability related to tools manufactured
by the subsidiary prior to June 4, 1987.  The cases involve approximately 3,000
plaintiffs, in state and federal courts.  All other major U.S. air tool
manufacturers are also defendants.  The gravamen of these complaints is that the
defendants' air tools, when used in different types of manufacturing
environments over extended periods of time, were defective in design and caused
various physical injuries.  The plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive
damages.  The Company has accepted an agreement in principle to settle these
claims.  Completion of this settlement agreement will not result in a material
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.

       In addition to the litigation noted above, the Company and its
subsidiaries are from time to time subject to ordinary routine litigation
incidental to their business.  The Company believes that the results of the
above noted litigation and other pending legal proceedings would not have a
materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDER
- -----------------------------------------------------------

       No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1999.


PART II


ITEMS 5 THROUGH 8.
- ------------------

       The information required under Items 5 through 8 is included in the
Registrant's Annual Report to its Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1999, and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- --------------------

       NONE



PART III


ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.
- -------------------

       The information required under Items 10 through 13 is included in the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2000 annual meeting, and is incorporated
herein by reference.


PART IV


     ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
8-K
- ---

       a)  Document List

           1.  Financial Statements
                  Response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted per the
                  Index to Financial Statement Schedules on page 13 of this
                  report.



           2.  Supplementary Data and Financial Statement Schedules
                  Response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted per the
                  Index to Financial Statement Schedules on page 13 of this
                  report.

           3.  An Index of Exhibits is on page 14 of this report.

       b)  Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of 1999.


          NONE



                              DANAHER CORPORATION
             INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



       Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted from this
Annual Report because they are not required, are not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.



Exhibits:
- ---------





                                   SIGNATURES


       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                  DANAHER CORPORATION



                                  By:  /s/ GEORGE M. SHERMAN
                                       -------------------------
                                       George M. Sherman
                                       President and Chief
                                       Executive Officer

Date: March 17, 2000





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

                      ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


To Danaher Corporation:

We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
consolidated financial statements included in the Danaher Corporation and
Subsidiaries' Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in this
Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated January 27, 2000. Our audit
was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
whole.  The schedules listed in the index are the responsibility of the
Company's management and are presented for the purpose of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not a part of the
consolidated financial statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the consolidated financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole.



                                        /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Baltimore, Maryland
January 27, 2000



                      DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                (000's omitted)





Notes:(a) - Amounts related to businesses acquired, net of amounts related
           to businesses disposed.


