
10-K405
THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

               /X/Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                                       or

             / /Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended                                 Commission file number
January 29, 2000                                                  1-4908

                             THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                                04-2207613
(State or other jurisdiction of                                 (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

           770 Cochituate Road
        Framingham, Massachusetts                                   01701
(Address of principal executive offices)                          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (508)390-1000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                           Name of each exchange
     Title of each class                                     on which registered
- -----------------------------                            -----------------------
Common Stock, par value $1.00                            New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant on March 31, 2000 was $6,597,191,950.

     There were 297,454,573 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, $1 par
value, outstanding as of March 31, 2000.





                                     Page 2


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
January 29, 2000 (certain parts as indicated herein) (Parts I and II).

     Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on June 6, 2000 (Part III).





                                     Page 3


ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     The TJX Companies, Inc. (TJX) is the largest off-price retailer of apparel
and home fashions in the United States and worldwide. We operate 632 T.J. Maxx
stores, 505 Marshalls stores and 100 Winners Apparel Ltd. stores, a Canadian
off-price family apparel and home fashions chain. We also operate HomeGoods, a
U.S. off-price home fashions chain with 51 stores, and T.K. Maxx, an off-price
family apparel and home fashions chain in the United Kingdom, the Republic of
Ireland and the Netherlands, which has 54 stores. In addition, A.J. Wright, a
new United States chain of off-price family apparel and home fashions stores
begun in 1998 and targeted to moderate income customers, operates 15 stores.
During the fiscal year ended January 29, 2000, we derived 32.0% of our sales
from the Northeast, 17.3% from the Midwest, 28.0% from the South, 1.1% from the
Central States, 12.9% from the West, 5.3% from Canada and 3.4% from Europe
(primarily the United Kingdom).

     TJX has positioned itself as a synergistic group of off-price businesses
and has expanded its off-price concept to new geographic areas, new product
lines and new demographic markets. Key synergistic strengths include our
expertise in off-price buying and inventory management techniques, substantial
buying power and off-price technological systems. Our mission is to deliver an
exciting and fresh assortment of merchandise at excellent values to our
customers every day. We define value as the combination of quality, fashion and
price. With close to 250 buyers worldwide and over 7,800 vendors, we believe we
are well positioned to accomplish this goal.

     All of TJX's chains employ opportunistic buying strategies to purchase
large quantities of merchandise at significant discounts from initial wholesale
prices. These strategies include special situation purchases and close-outs of
current season fashions. We also rely heavily on sophisticated inventory
controls that permit a virtually continuous flow of merchandise into our stores.
Highly automated storage and distribution systems track, allocate and deliver an
average of 12,000 items per week to each T.J. Maxx and Marshalls store. In
addition, computerized warehouse storage, handling and shipping systems permit a
continuous evaluation and replenishment of store inventory. Pricing, markdown
decisions and store inventory replenishment requirements are determined
centrally, using satellite-transmitted information provided by point-of-sale
computer terminals. This process is designed to sell substantially all
merchandise within targeted selling periods.

     Unless otherwise indicated, all store information is as of January 29,
2000. All references to store square footage are to gross square feet. Fiscal
2000 means the fiscal year ending January 29, 2000. Fiscal 2001 means the fiscal
year ending January 27, 2001. In common with the business of apparel retailers
generally, TJX's business is subject to seasonal influences, with higher levels
of sales and income generally realized in the second half of the year.





                                     Page 4


     Set forth below are the locations of stores operated by the Company as of
January 29, 2000:



     Winners Apparel Ltd. operates 100 stores in Canada: 14 in Alberta, 4 in
Manitoba, 51 in Ontario, 14 in Quebec, 2 in Nova Scotia, 2 in Saskatchewan, 9 in
British Columbia, 2 in New Brunswick, 1 in Newfoundland and 1 in Prince Edward
Island.

     T.K. Maxx operates 49 stores in the United Kingdom, 2 stores in the
Republic of Ireland, and 3 in the Netherlands. The HomeGoods store locations
include the HomeGoods portion of a T.J. Maxx 'N More and a Marshalls Mega-Store.





                                     Page 5


                             T.J. MAXX AND MARSHALLS

     T.J. Maxx was founded in 1976 and is today the largest off-price retailer
in the United States. We acquired Marshalls in 1995, which is the second largest
off-price retailer in the United States. TJX has successfully retained the
separate identities of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores through merchandising,
product assortment, marketing and store appearance. This has allowed us to give
our customers reasons to shop at both chains.

     T.J. Maxx sells brand name family apparel, accessories, giftware,
domestics, women's shoes and fine jewelry at prices generally 20%-60% below
department and specialty store regular prices. T.J. Maxx's target customers are
typically women who have families with middle to upper-middle incomes and who
generally fit the profile of a department store shopper. Marshalls' merchandise
and target customers are similar to those of T.J. Maxx. However, Marshalls also
offers its customers a full-line shoe department and a larger men's department
than T.J. Maxx.

     TJX has successfully integrated many administrative and operational
functions of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls. These chains operate with a common buying
and merchandising organization and have consolidated administrative functions,
including finance, real estate, human resources and systems. The combined
organization, known as The Marmaxx Group, offers us increased leverage to
purchase merchandise at favorable prices and allows us to operate with a low
cost structure. This is key to T.J. Maxx's and Marshalls' ability to sell
quality, brand-name merchandise at substantial discounts.

     T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores are generally located in suburban community
shopping centers. T.J. Maxx stores average approximately 29,000 square feet.
Marshalls stores average approximately 31,000 square feet. Marmaxx currently
expects to add approximately 60 stores in fiscal 2001.

                              WINNERS APPAREL LTD.

     TJX acquired Winners as a five store chain in 1990 and has grown this
business into the leading off-price retailer in Canada. Winners stores average
approximately 27,000 square feet and emphasize off-price designer and brand name
women's apparel and shoes, lingerie, accessories, domestics, giftware, menswear
and children's clothing. Winners expects to add approximately 12 stores in
fiscal 2001. Ultimately, we see Canada supporting approximately 160 Winners
stores. Winners also intends to enter the home fashions market and currently
plans to open its first "home" stores in fiscal 2002.

                                    HOMEGOODS

     TJX opened HomeGoods in 1992, which expanded its presence in the home
fashions market. HomeGoods offers a broad array of giftware, accent furniture,
lamps, rugs, accessories and seasonal merchandise for the home. In the last two
years, HomeGoods has increased the proportion of its home decor items. HomeGoods
operates in two formats: stand-alone stores and a superstore format in which we
combine HomeGoods and a T.J. Maxx or Marshalls store. The combination stores are
called T.J. Maxx 'N More or Marshalls Mega-Stores. Stand-alone HomeGoods stores
average approximately 32,000 square feet. In superstores, which average
approximately 53,000 square feet, we dedicate approximately 22,000 square feet
to HomeGoods. The 51 stores open at year-end include 24 stand-alone stores and
27 superstores. In fiscal 2001, we anticipate adding a total of approximately 30
HomeGoods stores and superstores. We believe that the U.S. market could support
about 500 free standing HomeGoods stores and 150 superstores. Thus, we believe
this home-oriented, off-price concept offers us a great growth vehicle.





                                     Page 6


                                    T.K. MAXX

     TJX introduced the off-price concept to the United Kingdom in 1994 with
T.K. Maxx stores. T.K. Maxx utilizes the same off-price strategies employed by
T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and Winners. The average size of a T.K. Maxx store is
approximately 25,000 square feet. T.K. Maxx opened 15 stores this year to end
fiscal 2000 with 54 stores including 49 stores in the U.K., 2 in Ireland and 3
in the Netherlands. We currently expect to grow T.K. Maxx by approximately 22
stores in fiscal 2001. We see an ultimate store base of 250 in the U.K. and
Ireland. Long term, we believe that the European continent offers us further
growth potential and thus T.K. Maxx could be a 500 plus store chain.

                                   A.J. WRIGHT

     A.J. Wright offers TJX the ability to bring the off-price concept to a new
demographic customer, the moderate income shopper. This business was launched in
1998 in New England and has expanded into the Tidewater, Virginia market as well
as Detroit and Baltimore. A.J. Wright stores average approximately 27,000 square
feet in size and, like our other businesses, are located in community shopping
centers. We currently expect to open approximately 10 A.J. Wright stores in
fiscal 2001. We believe this developing business offers TJX long-term growth
opportunities throughout the U.S.

                                    EMPLOYEES

     At January 29, 2000, TJX had approximately 67,000 employees, many of whom
work less than 40 hours per week. In addition, temporary employees are hired
during the peak back-to-school and holiday seasons. The Company has collective
bargaining agreements with the Union of Needletrades Industrial and Textile
Employees ("UNITE"), covering approximately 5,300 employees in its distribution
facilities in Worcester, Mansfield, and Woburn, Massachusetts; Evansville,
Indiana; Las Vegas, Nevada; Charlotte, North Carolina; Decatur, Georgia; and
Bridgewater, Virginia. Negotiations are currently being conducted with UNITE for
a new agreement covering Decatur bargaining unit workers. TJX considers its
labor/management relations and overall employee relations to be good.

                                   COMPETITION

     The retail apparel business is highly competitive. TJX generally competes
for customers with a variety of conventional and discount retail stores,
including national, regional and local independent department and specialty
stores, as well as with catalog operations, factory outlet stores and other
off-price stores. Competitive factors important to TJX's customers include
fashion, value, merchandise selection, brand name recognition and, to a lesser
degree, store location. In addition, because TJX purchases much of its inventory
opportunistically, TJX competes for merchandise with other national and regional
off-price apparel and other discount outlets. Also, many of TJX's competitors
handle identical or similar lines of merchandise and have comparable locations.
TJX believes that the Marshalls acquisition has enhanced its competitiveness.

                                     CREDIT

     TJX's stores operate primarily on a cash-and-carry basis. Each chain
accepts credit sales through programs offered by banks and others.





                                     Page 7


                             BUYING AND DISTRIBUTION

     The T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains are serviced by a single centralized
buying organization, while each of the other chains has its own centralized
buying organization. All of TJX's chains are serviced through their own
distribution network. Each T.J. Maxx store is serviced by one of the chain's
four distribution centers in Worcester, Massachusetts; Evansville, Indiana; Las
Vegas, Nevada (shared with Marshalls); and Charlotte, North Carolina. Each
Marshalls store is serviced by one of the chain's four distribution centers in
Woburn, Massachusetts; Decatur, Georgia; the shared Las Vegas, Nevada facility,
and Bridgewater, Virginia. Shipments are generally made at least twice a week by
contract carrier to each T.J. Maxx and Marshalls store. Winners Apparel Ltd.
stores are serviced from a distribution center in Brampton, Ontario, and
HomeGoods stores are serviced from a distribution center in Mansfield,
Massachusetts, and by the T.J. Maxx Evansville facility. A.J. Wright stores are
serviced from a distribution facility in Framingham, Massachusetts, and T.K.
Maxx stores are serviced from distribution centers in Milton Keynes and
Wakefield, England. A.J. Wright is currently constructing a 300,000 square foot
facility in Fall River, Massachusetts that is scheduled to be operational in
mid-year 2000.

                        SAFE HARBOR STATEMENTS UNDER THE
                PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

     Certain statements contained in this report are forward-looking and involve
a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially are the following: general economic conditions and
consumer demand and consumer preferences and weather patterns in the U.S.,
Canada and Europe; competitive factors, including continuing pressure from
pricing and promotional activities of competitors; impact of excess retail
capacity and the availability of desirable store locations on suitable terms;
the availability, selection and purchasing of attractive merchandise on
favorable terms; import risks, including potential disruptions and duties,
tariffs and quotas on imported merchandise including economic and political
problems in countries from which merchandise is imported; currency and exchange
rate factors in TJX's foreign operations; risks in the development of new
businesses and application of TJX's off-price strategies in foreign countries;
acquisition and divestment activities; risks; and other factors that may be
described in TJX's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. TJX does
not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even
if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results
expressed or implied therein will not be realized.





                                     Page 8


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     TJX's chains lease virtually all of their store locations. Leases are
generally for 10 years with options to extend for one or more 5 year periods.
TJX has the right to terminate certain leases before the expiration date under
certain circumstances and for a specified payment.

     The approximate average size of a T.J. Maxx store is 29,000 square feet,
Marshalls stores average approximately 31,000 square feet, Winners stores are
approximately 27,000 square feet on average, T.K. Maxx stores average
approximately 25,000 square feet and A.J. Wright stores average approximately
27,000 square feet. HomeGoods' stand-alone stores currently average
approximately 32,000 square feet, and a HomeGoods portion of a superstore
combination format with a T.J. Maxx or Marshalls averages approximately 22,000
square feet. TJX owns four T.J. Maxx distribution facilities - a 526,000 square
foot facility in Worcester, Massachusetts; a 983,000 square foot facility in
Evansville, Indiana; a 713,000 square foot facility in Las Vegas, Nevada (shared
with Marshalls); and a 600,000 square foot facility in Charlotte, North
Carolina. The Company owns a 791,000 square foot Marshalls distribution facility
in Decatur, Georgia. In addition, Marshalls leases two distribution facilities -
an 824,000 square foot facility in Woburn, Massachusetts and a 713,000 square
foot facility in Bridgewater, Virginia. Winners leases a 506,000 square foot
distribution center in Brampton, Ontario and 60,000 square feet of office space
in Mississauga, Ontario. HomeGoods leases a 204,000 square foot distribution
center in Mansfield, Massachusetts. T.K. Maxx in the United Kingdom leases a
150,000 square foot office and distribution facility in Milton Keynes, England,
a 140,000 square foot office and distribution facility in Wakefield, England,
and a 41,000 square foot office space in Watford, England. A.J. Wright leases
107,000 square feet of distribution space in Framingham, Massachusetts, and is
currently constructing a 300,000 square foot facility in Fall River,
Massachusetts that is scheduled to be operational in mid-year 2000. The
Company's, T.J. Maxx's, Marshalls', HomeGoods' and A.J. Wright's executive and
administrative offices are located in a 517,000 square foot office facility,
which the Company leases in Framingham, Massachusetts along with an additional
288,000 square feet of office space in the Framingham area. The Company is
currently expanding its 517,000 square foot facility with a 283,000 square foot
addition that will ultimately replace portions of the additional 288,000 square
feet leased in the Framingham area.

     The table below indicates the approximate gross square footage of stores
and distribution centers, by division, in operation as of January 29, 2000.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        There is no litigation pending against TJX or any of its subsidiaries
        which TJX believes is material.





                                     Page 9


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         There was no matter submitted to a vote of the Company's security
         holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000.

ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The following persons are the executive officers of the Company as of
         the date hereof:







                                    Page 10




     All officers hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board in June
2000 and until their successors are elected, or appointed, and qualified.





                                    Page 11

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON
         STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS

         The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
         reference from page 44 of the Annual Report, under the caption "Price
         Range of Common Stock," and from inside the back cover of the Annual
         Report, under the caption "Shareholder Information."

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
         reference from page 17 of the Annual Report, under the caption
         "Selected Financial Data."

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
         FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
         reference from pages 39 through 44 of the Annual Report, under the
         caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
         and Financial Condition."

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

         TJX is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on its investment
         in its Canadian (Winners) and European (T.K. Maxx) operations. As more
         fully described in Note D to the consolidated financial statements, we
         hedge a significant portion of our net investment and certain
         merchandise commitments in these operations with derivative financial
         instruments. TJX utilizes currency forward and swap contracts, designed
         to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures, most of
         which are recorded directly in shareholders' equity. The contracts are
         executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of
         major industrial countries. TJX does not enter into derivatives for
         speculative trading purposes. We have performed a sensitivity analysis
         assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates
         applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described
         above. As of January 29, 2000 the analysis indicated that such market
         movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated
         financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The information required by this Item and not filed with this report
         as Financial Statement Schedules is incorporated herein by reference
         from pages 18 through 37 of the Annual Report, under the captions;
         "Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets,"
         "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Consolidated Statements of
         Shareholders' Equity," "Selected Information by Major Business
         Segment" and "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."





                                    Page 12

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The Company will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
         definitive Proxy Statement no later than 120 days after the close of
         its fiscal year ended January 29, 2000 (the "Proxy Statement"). The
         information required by this Item and not given in Item 4A, Executive
         Officers of the Registrant, is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
         Statement. However, information under the captions "Executive
         Compensation Committee Report" and "Performance Graph" in the Proxy
         Statement is not so incorporated.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
         BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
         RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
         the Proxy Statement.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
         AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a)  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

              The Financial Statements filed as part of this report are listed
              and indexed at Page F-1.

         (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

              The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of
              December 9, 1999, relating to a form of Underwriting Agreement in
              connection with the Company's public sale of $200 million of 7.45%
              notes.



                                    Page 13


ITEM 14. (c)  EXHIBITS
(Cont.)

              Listed below are all Exhibits filed as part of this report.
              Certain Exhibits are incorporated by reference to documents
              previously filed by the Registrant with the Securities and
              Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 12b-32 under the Securities
              Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.







                                    Page 14








                                    Page 15







                                    Page 16



* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.





                                    Page 17


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                           THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.


Dated:  April 28, 2000
                                           /s/ DONALD G. CAMPBELL
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Donald G. Campbell
                                           Executive Vice President - Finance





                                    Page 18


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.







                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549



                             THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.



                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT



                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                           For the Fiscal Years Ended
                       January 29, 2000, January 30, 1999
                              and January 31, 1998





                    THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

          For Fiscal Years Ended January 29, 2000, January 30, 1999 and
                                January 31, 1998



*    Refers to page numbers in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for
     the fiscal year ended January 29, 2000, certain portions of which pages are
     incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this report as indicated.


                                       F-1



                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

     We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement on Forms S-3 (Nos. 333-5501 and 33-60059) and on Forms S-8 (Nos.
333-63293, 333-23613, 33-49747, 33-12220 and 333-35073) of the TJX Companies,
Inc. of our report dated February 29, 2000 relating to the financial statements,
which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Boston, Massachusetts
April 27, 2000                                PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


                                       F-2





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX



* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.





