
10-K405
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT FOR TJX COMPANIES



                                     PAGE 1


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
                /X/Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                                       or
            / /Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the fiscal year ended                                Commission file number
January 27, 1996                                                 1-4908 
                            The TJX Companies, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                            04-2207613 
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)

    770 Cochituate Road
 Framingham, Massachusetts                                      01701
(Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (508)390-1000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                          Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                                 on which registered 
        -------------------                                 ------------------- 
Common Stock, par value $1.00                          New York Stock Exchange 
Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred
  Stock, par value $1.00                               New York Stock Exchange
9-1/2% Sinking Fund Debentures due
  May 1, 2016                                          New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      NONE

        Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES X. NO.

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

        The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant on March 15, 1996 was $1,872,333,736.

        There were 72,517,328 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, $1 par
value, outstanding as of March 15, 1996.




                                     PAGE 2


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

        Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
January 27, 1996 (certain parts as indicated herein) (Parts I and II).

        Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held on June 4, 1996 (Part III).




                                     PAGE 3

ITEM 1. Business
        --------  

        The TJX Companies, Inc., (together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries,
hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), is the largest off-price apparel
retailer in North America. The Company operates 587 T.J. Maxx stores, the
recently acquired Marshalls chain of 496 stores, and Winners Apparel Ltd., a
Canadian off-price family apparel chain with 52 stores. TJX is also developing
HomeGoods, a U.S. off-price home fashion chain with 22 stores, and T.K. Maxx,
an off-price family apparel concept in the United Kingdom, which has 9 stores.
The Company also operates the Chadwick's of Boston off-price women's fashion
catalog.

        The Company completed the acquisition of Marshalls, an off-price family
apparel chain, from Melville Corporation on November 17, 1995 having paid $375
million in cash before closing adjustments, plus $175 million in TJX convertible
preferred stock. The results of Marshalls are included in the Company's
consolidated results from the date of acquisition.

        The Company strives to provide value to its customers by delivering
brand names, fashion, quality and price. During the fiscal year ended January
27, 1996 ("fiscal 1996"), the Company's stores derived 31.4% of its sales from
the Northeast, 21.4% from the Midwest, 28.2% from the South, 1.5% from the
Central States, 13.0% from the West and 4.5% from Canada.

        As a result of the Marshalls acquisition, the Company added 496
Marshalls stores to its existing base of 587 T.J. Maxx off-price family apparel
stores as of January 27, 1996. Management believes that it will realize improved
operating efficiencies for the combined entity through the integration of many
administrative and operational functions as well as through increased purchasing
leverage. In addition, through the acquisition of Marshalls, the Company will be
able to decrease the amount of excess retail square footage in the competitive
off-price retail sector by the closure of underperforming stores. The Company
expects to close approximately 30 T.J. Maxx stores during fiscal 1997 and 170
Marshalls stores over the next two years. The Company plans to retain the
independent identities of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, including certain
elements of merchandising, product assortment and store appearance.

        The majority of the Company's sales volume is done through the Company's
T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores. T.J. Maxx operates 587 stores in 48 states, with
an average store size of 28,000 gross square feet, while Marshalls operates 496
stores in 38 states and Puerto Rico, with an average store size of 32,000 gross
square feet. T.J. Maxx and Marshalls sell a broad range of brand name family
apparel, accessories, shoes, domestics, giftware and jewelry at prices generally
20% to 60% below department and specialty store regular prices. Winners Apparel
Ltd., which was acquired by the Company in fiscal 1991, is a Canadian off-price
family apparel retailer, which operates 52 stores in Canada. HomeGoods, an
off-price business the Company began testing in fiscal 1993, sells domestics,
giftware and other home fashions and operates a total of 22 stores. T.K. Maxx,
the Company's newest venture, operates 9 off-price apparel stores in the United
Kingdom. Unless otherwise indicated, all figures herein relating to numbers of
stores are as of January 27, 1996. Chadwick's of Boston sells, through a
mail-order catalog, women's career and casual fashion apparel priced
significantly below department store regular prices.

        In common with the business of apparel retailers generally, the
Company's business is subject to seasonal influences, with higher levels of
sales and income generally realized in the second half of the year.




                                     PAGE 4



        In September 1995, the Company sold its Hit or Miss chain of off-price
women's specialty apparel stores. The Company will continue to evaluate its
existing operations and that of other retailers and review acquisition and
divestment opportunities that would strengthen its position in the off-price
apparel industry.




                                     PAGE 5



Winners Apparel Ltd. operates 52 stores in Canada: 9 in Alberta, 3 in
Manitoba, 29 in Ontario, 8 in Quebec, 2 in Nova Scotia and 1 in Saskatchewan.
T.K. Maxx operates 9 stores in the United Kingdom.


                                     PAGE 6


                                   T.J. MAXX
                                   ---------

        T.J. Maxx, the largest off-price family apparel chain in the United
States, was founded by the Company in 1976 and operates 587 stores in 48
states.

        T.J. Maxx sells brand name family apparel, accessories, giftware,
domestics, women's shoes and fine jewelry at prices generally 20% to 60% below
department and specialty store regular prices. T.J. Maxx's target customers are
women between the ages of 25 to 50, who typically have families with middle and
upper-middle incomes and who generally fit the profile of a department store
shopper.

        The ability to purchase merchandise at favorable prices and operate with
a low cost structure is essential to T.J. Maxx's off-price mission. The chain
uses opportunistic buying strategies to purchase large quantities of merchandise
at significant discounts from initial wholesale prices. Those strategies include
special situation purchases, closeouts of current season fashions and
out-of-season purchases of basic seasonal items for warehousing until the
appropriate selling season. These buying strategies rely heavily on inventory
controls that permit a virtually continuous "open-to-buy" position. In addition,
highly automated storage and distribution systems track, allocate and deliver an
average of 10,000 items per week to each store. T.J. Maxx's computerized
warehouse storage, handling and shipping systems permit a continuous evaluation
and replenishment of store inventory requirements and the breakdown of
manufacturers' bulk shipments into computer-determined individual store
allotments by style, size and quantity. Pricing and markdown decisions and store
inventory replenishment requirements are determined centrally, using
satellite-transmitted information provided by point-of-sale computer terminals;
this ensures that substantially all merchandise is sold within targeted selling
periods. Each T.J. Maxx store is currently serviced by one of the chain's four
distribution centers in Worcester, Massachusetts; Evansville, Indiana; Las
Vegas, Nevada; and Charlotte, North Carolina.

        T.J. Maxx stores are generally located in suburban community shopping
centers and average approximately 28,000 gross square feet in size. In recent
years, T.J. Maxx has enlarged a number of stores to a larger format,
approximately 30,000-40,000 square feet in size, and plans to continue its
program of enlarging other successful stores. This larger format allows T.J.
Maxx to expand all of its departments, with particular emphasis on its
successful giftware and housewares departments and other non-apparel categories.
During fiscal 1996, 41 stores were opened, including 22 of the new larger
prototype, and 5 were closed. In addition, 17 existing stores were expanded to
the larger format, bringing the total of T.J. Maxx stores in the larger format
to 217. In fiscal 1997, approximately 25 new stores are planned, of which
approximately 10 are expected to be larger stores, along with the planned
expansion of about 19 existing locations.

                                   MARSHALLS
                                   ---------

        Marshalls, the second largest off-price family apparel retailer in the
United States, operates 496 stores in 38 states and Puerto Rico. Marshalls
target customers fit a profile similar to those of T.J. Maxx. Marshalls
merchandise is also similar to that carried by T.J. Maxx, except that Marshalls
offers its customers a full-line shoe department, a larger men's department and
costume, rather than fine, jewelry. Marshalls stores average approximately
32,000 gross square feet. During fiscal 1996, 25 Marshalls stores were opened
and 13 were closed and in fiscal 1997, approximately 12 new stores are planned.
Each Marshalls store is currently





                                     PAGE 7



serviced by one of four main distribution centers located in Woburn,
Massachusetts; Decatur, Georgia; Bridgewater, Virginia; and Chatsworth,
California.

        The operations and strategies of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls have been very
similar historically. In recent years, however, Marshalls had deviated from some
of its key strategies, such as everyday low prices, in favor of other marketing
ideas, including frequent promotional pricing. By restoring Marshalls historical
strategies and effecting other improvements, the Company believes that it can
increase Marshalls level of profitability and performance.

                              WINNERS APPAREL LTD.
                              --------------------
          
        The Company acquired the Winners chain in fiscal 1991. The Winners
acquisition has provided the Company with the opportunity to introduce the
concept of off-price apparel retailing to the Canadian market. Since the
acquisition, Winners has increased its number of stores from 5 to 52.

        Winners' apparel merchandising concept is substantially similar to that
of T.J. Maxx. Winners' stores average 24,000 square feet, and emphasize
off-price designer and brand name misses sportswear, dresses, lingerie,
accessories and giftware, as well as menswear and clothing for children,
including infants and toddlers. In fiscal 1996, Winners opened 15 stores in new
and existing Canadian markets. Winners expects to open 12-15 stores in fiscal
1997.

                                   HOMEGOODS
                                   ---------

        The Company is continuing to develop its HomeGoods stores, which are
designed to expand the Company's off-price presence in the home fashions market.
The HomeGoods stores offer a broad and deep range of home fashion products,
including domestics, cookware, bath accessories, and giftware in a no-frills,
multi-department format.

        HomeGoods' stores currently average approximately 38,000 square feet.
HomeGoods has been moving to a smaller 35,000 square foot prototype for new
openings and downsizing existing locations. HomeGoods opened 9 stores and
closed 2 stores in fiscal 1996 and now operates a total of 22 stores. HomeGoods
and T.J. Maxx are experimenting with a new format that combines T.J. Maxx and
HomeGoods in one store and expect to open approximately four such stores in
fiscal 1997.

                                   T.K. MAXX
                                   ---------

        During fiscal 1995, the Company began testing the off-price family
apparel concept in Europe by opening its first 5 T.K. Maxx stores in the United
Kingdom. T.K. Maxx utilizes the same off-price strategy employed by T.J. Maxx
and Winners. At the end of fiscal 1996, the Company had a total of 9 stores and
has plans to open approximately 9 in fiscal 1997.

                              CHADWICK'S OF BOSTON
                              --------------------

        Chadwick's, founded by the Company in 1983, offers off-price women's
career and casual fashion apparel through a catalog operation. The Chadwick's
catalog features first quality, current fashion and classic merchandise,
including career, sportswear, casual wear, dresses, suits and accessories, with
a mix of brand name and private label merchandise, priced significantly below
conventional retailers and other catalog operations. Chadwick's target customers
are 20 to 50 year old women interested in





                                     PAGE 8



moderately to upper-moderately priced merchandise.  Certain of Chadwick's
catalogs also carry menswear.

        Chadwick's buying and merchandising policies result in a changing
selection of merchandise, which increases the freshness, fashion content and
excitement of each catalog. Chadwick's also benefits from the ability to
liquidate its inventory overstocks through the Company's other divisions.

                                   EMPLOYEES
                                   ---------

        At January 27, 1996, the Company had approximately 58,000 employees,
many of whom work less than 40 hours per week. In addition, temporary employees
are hired during the peak back-to-school and holiday seasons. The Company has
several collective bargaining agreements with the International Ladies Garment
Workers Union ("ILGWU"), covering approximately 3,700 employees in its
distribution facilities in West Bridgewater and Worcester, Massachusetts;
Evansville, Indiana; Las Vegas, Nevada and Charlotte, North Carolina. New
three-year agreements, effective January 1, 1995, were ratified by the union
workers in the West Bridgewater, Worcester and Las Vegas facilities. The Company
is currently negotiating a new agreement for the Evansville facility to replace
the existing agreement which expires May 31, 1996. The current agreement for the
Charlotte facility expires December 31, 1996, and it is expected that
negotiations for a new agreement will commence in the fall. The Company
considers its labor/management relations and overall employee relations to be
good.

                                  COMPETITION
                                  -----------

        The retail apparel business is highly competitive. The Company generally
competes for customers with a variety of conventional and discount retail
stores, including national, regional and local independent department and
specialty stores, as well as with catalog operations, factory outlet stores and
other off-price stores. In recent years, the Company has encountered increased
competition from department stores which have become more focused on promotions
to increase sales. Competitive factors important to the Company's customers
include fashion, value, merchandise selection, brand name recognition and, to a
lesser degree, store location. In addition, because the Company purchases much
of its inventory opportunistically, the Company competes for merchandise with
other national and regional off-price apparel and other discount outlets. Also,
many of the Company's competitors handle identical or similar lines of
merchandise and have comparable locations, and some have greater financial
resources than the Company. The Company expects that the Marshalls acquisition
will enhance its competitiveness.

                                     CREDIT
                                     ------

        The Company's stores operate primarily on a cash-and-carry basis. Each
chain accepts credit sales through programs offered by banks and others.

                            BUYING AND DISTRIBUTION
                            -----------------------

        The T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains are serviced by a single centralized
buying organization while each of the other chains has its own centralized
buying organization. All of the Company's chains are serviced through their own
distribution network. Each T.J. Maxx store is serviced by one of the chain's
four distribution centers in Worcester,





                                     PAGE 9



Massachusetts, Evansville, Indiana, Las Vegas, Nevada and Charlotte, North
Carolina. Shipments are made twice a week by contract carrier to each store.
Each Marshalls store is serviced by one of the chain's four main distribution
centers in Woburn, Massachusetts; Decatur, Georgia; Chatsworth, California; and
Bridgewater, Virginia. Winners Apparel Ltd. stores are serviced from a
distribution center in Mississaugau, Ontario, HomeGoods stores are serviced from
a distribution center in Mansfield, Massachusetts, and T.K. Maxx stores are
serviced from a distribution center in Milton Keynes, England. Chadwick's of
Boston's customers are serviced from its fulfillment center in West Bridgewater,
Massachusetts.

ITEM 2. Properties
        ----------

        All of the Company's chains lease virtually all of their store
locations. Leases are generally for 10 years with options to extend for one or
more 5 year periods. The Company has the right to terminate certain leases
before the expiration date under certain circumstances and for a specified
payment.

        The approximate average size of a T.J. Maxx store is 28,000 square feet,
Marshalls stores average approximately 32,000 square feet, Winners stores are
approximately 24,000 square feet on average and HomeGoods stores currently
average approximately 38,000 square feet. The Company owns four T.J. Maxx
distribution facilities - a 526,000 square foot facility in Worcester,
Massachusetts; a 983,000 square foot facility in Evansville, Indiana; a 400,000
square foot facility in Las Vegas, Nevada; and a 600,000 square foot facility in
Charlotte, North Carolina. The Company owns one of the Marshalls distribution
facilities, a 856,000 square foot facility in Decatur, Georgia. In addition,
Marshalls leases its other three main distribution facilities - a 837,000 square
foot facility in Woburn, Massachusetts; a 183,000 square foot facility in
Chatsworth, California; and a 700,000 square foot facility in Bridgewater,
Virginia. The Company also leases 26,000 square feet of temporary space in
California as well as a small regional facility, 47,000 square feet in Hawaii.
Chadwick's owns a 579,000 square foot fulfillment center and office facility in
West Bridgewater, Massachusetts. Chadwick's is also leasing a nearby 127,000
square foot warehouse and office facility. Winners leases 257,000 square feet of
warehouse and office space in Mississaugau, Ontario. HomeGoods leases a 205,000
square foot distribution center in Mansfield, Massachusetts. T.K. Maxx in the
United Kingdom has leased a 108,000 square foot office and distribution facility
in Milton Keynes, England and a 16,500 square foot office space in Watford,
England. The Company's, T.J. Maxx's and HomeGoods' executive and administrative
offices are located in a 517,000 square foot office facility, which the Company
leases in Framingham, Massachusetts. The Company is currently leasing
approximately 350,000 square feet of office space for Marshalls, most of which
is located in Andover, Massachusetts. The Company plans to close much of this
space during fiscal 1997 and move the Marshalls associates to Framingham,
Massachusetts. In anticipation of this move, the Company has plans to lease
approximately 100,000 additional square feet of office space in the Framingham
area.



                                     PAGE 10



ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings
        -----------------

        The Company is a defendant in a class action lawsuit, IN RE TJX
COMPANIES, INC., Consolidated Civil Action No. 10514, in the Court of Chancery
of the State of Delaware (the "Court"). The former The TJX Companies, Inc. ("old
TJX"), formerly an 83%-owned subsidiary of the Company, and the directors of old
TJX are also named as defendants in this lawsuit. The lawsuit alleges that
certain actions of the defendants in respect of the merger in 1989 of old TJX
into The TJX Operating Companies, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary subsequently
merged into the Company, constituted self-dealing, deception, unfair dealing,
overreaching and a breach of fiduciary duties owed by the defendants to the then
public stockholders of old TJX. In particular, the amended complaint alleges
that the terms of the merger were unfair and offered inadequate consideration to
the then public stockholders of old TJX. The suit seeks to recover unspecified
monetary damages. The defendants have filed answers denying any wrongdoing, and
the case is in discovery phase. The parties have reached a settlement in
principle which is subject to the approval of the Court. The Company believes
that the substantive allegations of the case are without merit and that the case
will not have a material effect on the Company's financial position.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
        ---------------------------------------------------

        There was no matter submitted to a vote of the Company's security
holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996.




                                     PAGE 11




        The foregoing were elected to their current Company offices by the Board
of Directors in June 1995, except for Donald G. Campbell who was elected to his
current office in April 1996. All officers hold office until the next annual
meeting of the Board in June 1996 and until their successors are elected and
qualified.




                                     PAGE 12

                                    PART II
                                    -------

ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant's Common
        Stock and Related Security Holder Matters
        -----------------------------------------

        The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference from page 38 of the Annual Report, under the caption "Price Range of
Common Stock," and from inside the back cover of the Annual Report, under the
caption "Shareholder Information."

ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data
        -----------------------

        The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference from page 33 of the Annual Report, under the caption "Selected
Financial Data."

ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
        Financial Condition and Results of Operations
        ---------------------------------------------

        The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference from pages 35 through 37 of the Annual Report, under the caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition."

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
        --------------------------------------------

        The information required by this Item and not filed with this report as
Financial Statement Schedules is incorporated herein by reference from pages 16
through 32 of the Annual Report, under the captions; "Consolidated Statements of
Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,"
"Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity," "Selected Information by
Major Business Segment" and "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

ITEM 9. Disagreements on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure
        --------------------

        Not applicable.

                                    PART III
                                    --------

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
         --------------------------------------------------
 
        The Company will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
definitive Proxy Statement no later than 120 days after the close of its fiscal
year ended January 27, 1996 (the "Proxy Statement"). The information required by
this Item and not given in Item 4A, Executive Officers of the Registrant, is
incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement. However, information under the
captions "Executive Compensation Committee Report" and "Performance Graph" in
the Proxy Statement is not so incorporated.

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation
         ----------------------
 
        The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain
         Beneficial Owners and Management
         --------------------------------



                                     PAGE 13


        The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and
          Related Transactionsru
          ----------------------


        The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

                                    PART IV
                                    -------

ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
          and Reports on Form 8-K
          -----------------------

(a) Financial Statement Schedules
    -----------------------------

        The Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules filed as part
of this report are listed and indexed at Page F-1.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K
    -------------------

        The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of October 14,
1995 regarding the Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 entered
into by the Company and Melville Corporation (Melville) regarding the purchase
of Marshalls by the Company from Melville.

        The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of November 17,
1995 (and a related Form 8-KA) regarding the completion of the acquisition of
Marshalls by the Company from Melville and a Credit Agreement entered into by
the Company. Form 8-KA included the required Financial Statements of the
Business Acquired and the required Pro Forma Financial Information.

(c) Exhibits
    --------

        Listed below are all Exhibits filed as part of this report. Certain
Exhibits are incorporated by reference to documents previously filed by the
Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 12b-32
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit
No.       Description of Exhibit
- ---       ----------------------

3(i).1    Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed June 5, 1985 is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(a) to the Form 10-K 
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.

3(i).2    Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of 
          Incorporation filed June 3, 1986 is incorporated herein by reference 
          to Exhibit (3i)(b) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
          January 28, 1995.

3(i).3    Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of 
          Incorporation filed June 2, 1987 is incorporated herein by reference 
          to Exhibit (3i)(c) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
          January 28, 1995.

3(i).4    Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
          Incorporation filed June 20, 1989 is incorporated herein by



                                     PAGE 14


          reference to Exhibit (3i)(d) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal 
          year ended January 28, 1995.

3(i).5    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of New Series A
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(e) to the Form 10-K filed for the 
          fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.

3(i).6    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of $3.125 Series C
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(f) to the Form 10-K filed for the 
          fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.

3(i).7    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series D
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is incorporated herein by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

3(i).8    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series E
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is incorporated herein by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

3(ii).1   The by-laws of the Company, as amended, are incorporated herein by
          reference to Exhibit (3ii)(a) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal 
          year ended January 28, 1995.

4.1       A composite copy of the Share Purchase Agreements dated as of April 
          15, 1992 regarding Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is 
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Form 10-K filed for 
          the fiscal year ended January 25, 1992.

4.2       Exchange Agreement dated as of August 6, 1992 between the Company and 
          the holders of New Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is 
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to the Form 10-Q filed for 
          the quarter ended July 25, 1992.

4.3       Credit Agreement dated as of November 17, 1995 among The First 
          National Bank of Chicago, Bank of America Illinois, The Bank of New 
          York, and Pearl Street L.P., as co-arrangers, the other financial 
          institution parties thereto, and the Company is incorporated by 
          reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

          Each other instrument relates to securities the total amount of which
     does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries
     on a consolidated basis. The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities
     and Exchange Commission copies of each such instrument not otherwise filed
     herewith or incorporated herein by reference.

10.1      The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of April 26,
          1988 with Stanley Feldberg is incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10(a) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January
          30, 1988. The First Amendment to the 1988 Amended and Restated
          Employment Agreement of Stanley Feldberg dated June 8, 1993 is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Form 10-K
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *




                                     PAGE 15



10.2      The Employment Agreement dated as of January 30, 1994 with Bernard 
          Cammarata is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (10)(d) to 
          the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 28, 1995. *

10.3      The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1,
          1995 with Richard Lesser is incorporated herein by reference to 
          Exhibit (10)(e) to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 
          28, 1995. *

10.4      The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1,
          1995 with Donald G. Campbell is incorporated herein by reference to 
          Exhibit (10)(f) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
          January 28, 1995. *

10.5      The Management Incentive Plan, as amended, is incorporated herein by
          reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year 
          ended January 29, 1994. *

10.6      The 1982 Long Range Management Incentive Plan, as amended, is
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Form 10-K 
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *

10.7      The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, is incorporated herein by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year 
          ended January 29, 1994. *

10.8      The TJX Companies, Inc. Long Range Performance Incentive Plan, as
          amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the 
          Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *

10.9      The General Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Form 10-K filed for the 
          fiscal year ended January 27, 1990. *

10.10     The Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended, is 
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Form 10-K 
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 25, 1992. *

10.11     The 1993 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed for the 
          quarter ended May 1, 1993. *

10.12     The Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended, is incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed for the 
          quarter ended May 1, 1993. *

10.13     The form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of 
          its officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference to 
          Exhibit 10(r) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
          January 27, 1990. *

10.14     The Trust Agreement dated as of April 8, 1988 between the Company and
          State Street Bank and Trust Company is incorporated herein by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year 
          ended January 30, 1988.*

10.15     The Trust Agreement dated as of April 8, 1988 between the Company and 
          Shawmut Bank of Boston, N.A. is incorporated herein by 






                                     PAGE 16

          reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal
          year ended January 30, 1988. *

10.16     Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 between the 
          Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference 
          to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 14, 1995.

10.17     Amendment Number One dated as of November 17, 1995 to the Stock 
          Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 between the Company 
          and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to the 
          Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

10.18     Transitional Services Agreement dated as of November 17, 1995 between 
          the Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by 
          reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

10.19     Amendment Number Two dated as of February 1, 1996 to Stock Purchase
          Agreement and Transitional Services Agreement between the Company and 
          Melville Corporation is filed herewith.

10.20     Standstill and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 
          1995 between the Company and Melville Corporation is filed herewith.

11        Statement re computation of per share earnings.
          -----------------------------------------------

          This statement is filed herewith.

13        Annual Report to security holders.
          ----------------------------------

          Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year 
          ended January 27, 1996 are filed herewith.

21        Subsidiaries.
          -------------

          A list of the Registrant's subsidiaries is filed herewith.

23        Consents of experts and counsel.
          --------------------------------
          The Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. is contained on Page F-2 of 
          the Financial Statements filed herewith.

24        Power of Attorney.
          ------------------

          The Power of Attorney given by the Directors and certain Executive
          Officers of the Company is filed herewith.

*  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.





                                     PAGE 17





                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------


        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.




                                             THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.



Dated:  April 26, 1996
                                             /s/ Donald G. Campbell 
                                             ----------------------------------
                                             Donald G. Campbell
                                             Executive Vice President - Finance






                                     PAGE 18



        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


/s/ BERNARD CAMMARATA                   /s/ DONALD G. CAMPBELL
- --------------------------------        --------------------------------  
Bernard Cammarata, President            Donald G. Campbell, Executive
and Principal Executive Officer         Vice President - Finance,
and Director                            Principal Financial and
                                        Accounting Officer


PHYLLIS B. DAVIS*                       ROBERT F. SHAPIRO*
- --------------------------------        --------------------------------
Phyllis B. Davis, Director              Robert F. Shapiro, Director



STANLEY H. FELDBERG*                    WILLOW B. SHIRE*
- --------------------------------        --------------------------------
Stanley H. Feldberg, Director           Willow B. Shire, Director



RICHARD LESSER*                         BURTON S. STERN*
- --------------------------------        --------------------------------
Richard Lesser, Director                Burton S. Stern, Director



ARTHUR F. LOEWY*                        FLETCHER H. WILEY*
- --------------------------------        --------------------------------
Arthur F. Loewy, Director               Fletcher H. Wiley, Director



JOHN M. NELSON*                         ABRAHAM ZALEZNIK*
- --------------------------------        --------------------------------
John M. Nelson, Director                Abraham Zaleznik, Director




Dated: April 26, 1996
                                        * By /s/ DONALD G. CAMPBELL*
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Donald G. Campbell
                                        as attorney-in-fact











                                     PAGE 19







                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549









                            THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.











                                   FORM 10-K

                                 ANNUAL REPORT










                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                      AND
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES





                           For the Fiscal Years Ended
                       January 27, 1996, January 28, 1995
                              and January 29, 1994





                                     





                    THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES







                                      F-1









                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements of
The TJX Companies, Inc. on Form S-3 (File No. 33-50259 and 33-60059) and on 
Forms S-8 (File Nos. 33-12220 and 33-49747) of our report dated March 12, 1996, 
on our audits of the consolidated financial statements of The TJX Companies, 
Inc. as of January 27, 1996 and January 28, 1995 and for the years ended 
January 27, 1996, January 28, 1995 and January 29, 1994 which report is 
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




Boston, Massachusetts
April 22, 1996                               Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
































                                      F-2






                            THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.

                                      F-3






                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
No.             Description of Exhibit
- ---             ----------------------

3(i).1    Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed June 5, 1985 is   
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(a) to the Form 10-K 
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.                    
           
3(i).2    Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of           
          Incorporation filed June 3, 1986 is incorporated herein by reference 
          to Exhibit (3i)(b) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended  
          January 28, 1995.                                                    

3(i).3    Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of          
          Incorporation filed June 2, 1987 is incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit (3i)(c) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
          January 28, 1995.                                                   

3(i).4    Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of           
          Incorporation filed June 20, 1989 is incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit (3i)(d) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended  
          January 28, 1995.                                                    

3(i).5    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of New Series A   
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(e) to the Form 10-K filed for the 
          fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.                                   

3(i).6    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of $3.125 Series C
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(f) to the Form 10-K filed for the 
          fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.                                   
 
3(i).7    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series D     
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is incorporated herein by    
          reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.  

3(i).8    Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series E   
          Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is incorporated herein by  
          reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

3(ii).1   The by-laws of the Company, as amended, are incorporated herein by   
          reference to Exhibit (3ii)(a)                                       
          

          
          to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.

4.1       A composite copy of the Share Purchase Agreements dated as of April   
          15, 1992 regarding Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is 
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Form 10-K filed for  
          the fiscal year ended January 25, 1992.                               

4.2       Exchange Agreement dated as of August 6, 1992 between the Company and 
          the holders of New Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is 
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.1 to the Form 10-Q filed for  
          the quarter ended July 25, 1992.                                      
 
4.3       Credit Agreement dated as of November 17, 1995 among The First       
          National Bank of Chicago, Bank of America Illinois, The Bank of New  
          York, and Pearl Street L.P., as co-arrangers, the other financial    
          institution parties thereto, and the Company is incorporated by      
          reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995. 
          
          

          Each other instrument relates to securities the total amount of which
     does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries
     on a consolidated basis. The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities
     and Exchange Commission copies of each such instrument not otherwise filed
     herewith or incorporated herein by reference.

10.1      The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of April 26,   
          1988 with Stanley Feldberg is incorporated herein by reference to     
          Exhibit 10(a) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January
          30, 1988. The First Amendment to the 1988 Amended and Restated        
          Employment Agreement of Stanley Feldberg dated June 8, 1993 is        
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Form 10-K    
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *                   
          
10.2      The Employment Agreement dated as of January 30, 1994 with Bernard  
          Cammarata is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (10)(d) to 
          the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 28, 1995. *   
          
10.3      The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1, 
          1995 with Richard Lesser is incorporated herein by reference to       
          Exhibit (10)(e) to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28,
          1995. *                                                               




10.4      The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1, 
          1995 with Donald G. Campbell is incorporated herein by reference to  
          Exhibit (10)(f) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended     
          January 28, 1995. *                                                  

10.5      The Management Incentive Plan, as amended, is incorporated herein by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year 
          ended January 29, 1994. *                                             

10.6      The 1982 Long Range Management Incentive Plan, as amended, is       
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Form 10-K   
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *                  

10.7      The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, is incorporated herein by  
          reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year 
          ended January 29, 1994. *                                             

10.8      The TJX Companies, Inc. Long Range Performance Incentive Plan, as     
          amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the  
          Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *         

10.9      The General Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, is incorporated   
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Form 10-K filed for the  
          fiscal year ended January 27, 1990. *                                

10.10     The Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended, is           
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Form 10-K   
          filed for the fiscal year ended January 25, 1992. *                  
 
10.11     The 1993 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated 
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed for the    
          quarter ended May 1, 1993. *                                          

10.12     The Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended, is incorporated herein 
          by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed for the quarter   
          ended May 1, 1993. *                                                  

10.13     The form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of 
          its officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference to     
          Exhibit 10(r) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January
          27, 1990. *                                                           

10.14     The Trust Agreement dated as of April 8, 1988 between the Company and 
          State Street Bank and Trust                                           
          

         
          Company is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the
          Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 30, 1988. *

10.15     The Trust Agreement dated as of April 8, 1988 between the Company and 
          Shawmut Bank of Boston, N.A. is incorporated herein by reference to   
          Exhibit 10(z) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
          January 30, 1988. *                                                  

10.16     Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 between the     
          Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference  
          to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 14, 1995.             

10.17     Amendment Number One dated as of November 17, 1995 to the Stock      
          Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 between the Company  
          and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to the  
          Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.                  
 
10.18     Transitional Services Agreement dated as of November 17, 1995 between
          the Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by       
          reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995. 
          
10.19     Amendment Number Two dated as of February 1, 1996 to Stock Purchase   
          Agreement and Transitional Services Agreement between the Company and 
          Melville Corporation is filed herewith.                               
 
10.20     Standstill and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 17,
          1995 between the Company and Melville Corporation is filed herewith. 
 
11        Statement re computation of per share earnings.
          -----------------------------------------------
          
          This statement is filed herewith.                                    

13        Annual Report to security holders.
          ----------------------------------
        
          Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
          ended January 27, 1996 are filed herewith.

21        Subsidiaries.
          -------------

          A list of the Registrant's subsidiaries is filed herewith.

23        Consents of experts and counsel.
          --------------------------------




          The Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. is contained on Page F-2 of
          the Financial Statements filed herewith.

24        Power of Attorney.
          ------------------
        
          The Power of Attorney given by the Directors and certain Executive
          Officers of the Company is filed herewith.

*  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.











