
10-K405
TJX COMPANIES, INC. ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
               /X/Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                                       or
             / /Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the fiscal year ended                                 Commission file number
January 25, 1997                                                  1-4908
                             The TJX Companies, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                                               04-2207613
(State or other jurisdiction of                                 (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

          770 Cochituate Road
       Framingham, Massachusetts                                    01701
(Address of principal executive offices)                          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (508)390-1000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                           Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                                    on which registered
Common Stock, par value $1.00                            New York Stock Exchange
Series E Cumulative Convertible
  Preferred Stock, par value $1.00                       New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      NONE

         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES X. NO.

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the Registrant on March 31, 1997 was $3,403,391,026.

         There were 79,683,329 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, $1 par
value, outstanding as of March 31, 1997.

                                     PAGE 2


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
January 25, 1997 (certain parts as indicated herein) (Parts I and II).

         Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held on June 3, 1997 (Part III).

                                     PAGE 3


ITEM 1.    Business

         The TJX Companies, Inc., (together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries,
hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), is the largest off-price apparel
retailer in North America. The Company operates 578 T.J. Maxx stores, 454
Marshalls stores, and Winners Apparel Ltd., a Canadian off-price family apparel
chain with 65 stores. TJX also operates HomeGoods, a U.S. off-price home fashion
chain with 21 stores, and T.K. Maxx, an off-price family apparel concept in the
United Kingdom, which has 18 stores.

         The Company acquired Marshalls, an off-price family apparel chain, from
Melville Corporation on November 17, 1995 having paid $424.3 million in cash,
plus $175 million in TJX convertible preferred stock. The total purchase price
of Marshalls, including acquisition costs, was $606 million. The results of
Marshalls are included in the Company's consolidated results from the date of
acquisition.

         The Company strives to provide value to its customers by delivering
brand names, fashion, quality and price. During the fiscal year ended January
25, 1997 ("fiscal 1997"), the Company's stores derived 34.0% of its sales from
the Northeast, 18.3% from the Midwest, 28.7% from the South, 1.1% from the
Central States, 14.1% from the West and 3.8% from Canada.

         As a result of the Marshalls acquisition, the Company has started to
realize improved operating efficiencies for the combined T.J. Maxx/Marshalls
entity through the integration of many administrative and operational functions
as well as through increased purchasing leverage allowing the Company to provide
increased values to its customers. In addition, the Company has been able to
decrease the amount of excess retail square footage by the closure of 30 T.J.
Maxx stores and 63 Marshalls stores from the date of acquisition through the end
of fiscal 1997. The Company expects to close another 50 Marshalls stores during
fiscal 1998. The Company has retained the independent identities of the T.J.
Maxx and Marshalls stores, including certain elements of merchandising, product
assortment and store appearance.

         The majority of the Company's sales volume is done through the
Company's T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores. T.J. Maxx operates 578 stores in 47
states, with an average store size of 29,000 gross square feet, while Marshalls
operates 454 stores in 37 states and Puerto Rico, with an average store size of
32,000 gross square feet. T.J. Maxx and Marshalls sell a broad range of brand
name family apparel, accessories, shoes, domestics, giftware and jewelry at
prices generally 20% to 60% below department and specialty store regular prices.
Winners Apparel Ltd. is an off-price family apparel retailer, which operates 65
stores in Canada. HomeGoods, an off-price business the Company began testing in
fiscal 1993, sells domestics, giftware and other home fashions and operates a
total of 21 stores. T.K. Maxx, the Company's newest venture, operates 18
off-price family apparel stores in the United Kingdom. Unless otherwise
indicated, all figures herein relating to numbers of stores are as of January
25, 1997.

         In common with the business of apparel retailers generally, the
Company's business is subject to seasonal influences, with higher levels of
sales and income generally realized in the second half of the year.

                                     PAGE 4


         In December 1996, the Company sold its Chadwick's of Boston catalog
division and in September 1995, the Company sold its Hit or Miss chain of
off-price women's specialty apparel stores. The Company will continue to
evaluate its existing operations and that of other retailers and review
opportunities that would strengthen its position in the apparel retail industry.

                                     PAGE 5



         Set forth in the following table are the locations of stores operated
by the Company's United States operations as of January 25, 1997:



Winners Apparel Ltd. operates 65 stores in Canada: 9 in Alberta, 3 in Manitoba,
35 in Ontario, 11 in Quebec, 2 in Nova Scotia, 1 in Saskatchewan, 2 in British
Columbia and 2 in New Brunswick.
T.K. Maxx operates 18 stores in the United Kingdom.

                                     PAGE 6


                             T.J. MAXX AND MARSHALLS

T.J. Maxx Stores

         T.J. Maxx, the largest off-price family apparel chain in the United
States, was founded by the Company in 1976 and operates 578 stores in 47 states.

         T.J. Maxx sells brand name family apparel, accessories, giftware,
domestics, women's shoes and fine jewelry at prices generally 20% to 60% below
department and specialty store regular prices. T.J. Maxx's target customers are
women between the ages of 25 to 50, who typically have families with middle and
upper-middle incomes and who generally fit the profile of a department store
shopper.

         T.J. Maxx stores are generally located in suburban community shopping
centers and average approximately 29,000 gross square feet in size. In recent
years, T.J. Maxx has enlarged a number of stores to a larger format,
approximately 30,000-40,000 square feet in size, and plans to continue its
program of enlarging other successful stores. This larger format allows T.J.
Maxx to expand all of its departments, with particular emphasis on its giftware
and housewares departments and other non-apparel categories. During fiscal 1997,
21 stores were opened, including 13 of the new larger prototype, and 30 were
closed, including 4 of the larger prototype. In addition, 21 existing stores
were expanded to the larger format, bringing the total of T.J. Maxx stores in
the larger format to 247. In fiscal 1998, approximately 25 new stores are
planned, of which approximately 10 are expected to be larger stores, along with
the planned expansion of about 20 existing locations.

Marshalls Stores

         Marshalls, the second largest off-price family apparel retailer in the
United States, operates 454 stores in 37 states and Puerto Rico. Marshalls
target customers fit a profile similar to those of T.J. Maxx. Marshalls
merchandise is also similar to that carried by T.J. Maxx, except that Marshalls
offers its customers a full-line shoe department, a larger men's department and
costume, rather than fine, jewelry. Marshalls stores average approximately
32,000 gross square feet. During fiscal 1997, 11 Marshalls stores were opened
and 53 were closed and in fiscal 1998, approximately 15 new stores are planned
along with approximately 50 closings.

         The operations and strategies of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls have been very
similar historically. Prior to the acquisition of Marshalls by TJX, Marshalls
had deviated from some of its key strategies, such as everyday low prices, in
favor of other marketing ideas, including frequent promotional pricing. The
Company believes that restoring Marshalls historical strategies and effecting
other improvements, were significant factors in increasing Marshalls level of
profitability and performance in fiscal 1997.

Buying and Distribution

         During fiscal 1997, the Company combined a number of administrative
functions of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls operations with one of the most
significant being the buying and merchandising function. The ability to

                                     PAGE 7


purchase merchandise at favorable prices and operate with a low cost structure
is essential to T.J. Maxx's and Marshalls off-price mission which emphasizes
providing quality brand-name merchandise at great values to its customers. These
chains use opportunistic buying strategies to purchase large quantities of
merchandise at significant discounts from initial wholesale prices. Those
strategies include special situation purchases, closeouts of current season
fashions and out-of-season purchases of basic seasonal items for warehousing
until the appropriate selling season. These buying strategies rely heavily on
inventory controls that permit a virtually continuous "open-to-buy" position. In
addition, highly automated storage and distribution systems track, allocate and
deliver an average of 10,000 items per week to each store. T.J. Maxx's
computerized warehouse storage, handling and shipping systems permit a
continuous evaluation and replenishment of store inventory requirements and the
breakdown of manufacturers' bulk shipments into computer-determined individual
store allotments by style, size and quantity. Pricing and markdown decisions and
store inventory replenishment requirements are determined centrally, using
satellite-transmitted information provided by point-of-sale computer terminals;
this ensures that substantially all merchandise is sold within targeted selling
periods. During fiscal 1997, the Company developed a plan for the realignment of
the Marshalls and T.J. Maxx distribution facilities which is expected to be
implemented over the next several years. Each T.J. Maxx store is currently
serviced by one of the chain's four distribution centers in Worcester,
Massachusetts; Evansville, Indiana; Las Vegas, Nevada; and Charlotte, North
Carolina. Each Marshalls store is currently serviced by one of four main
distribution centers located in Woburn, Massachusetts; Decatur, Georgia;
Bridgewater, Virginia; and Chatsworth, California. Other administrative
functions that have been consolidated include finance, real estate, human
resources and systems.

                              WINNERS APPAREL LTD.

         The Company acquired the Winners chain in 1990. The Winners acquisition
has provided the Company with the opportunity to introduce the concept of
off-price apparel retailing to the Canadian market. Since the acquisition,
Winners has increased its number of stores from 5 to 65.

         Winners' apparel merchandising concept is substantially similar to that
of T.J. Maxx. Winners' stores average 25,000 square feet, and emphasize
off-price designer and brand name misses sportswear, dresses, women's shoes,
lingerie, accessories and giftware, as well as menswear and clothing for
children, including infants and toddlers. In fiscal 1997, Winners opened 13
stores in new and existing Canadian markets and expects to open a similar amount
of stores in fiscal 1998.

                                    HOMEGOODS

         HomeGoods is a chain of off-price home fashion stores started by the
Company in 1992 and designed to expand the Company's off-price presence in the
home fashions market. The Company is continuing efforts to develop this business
and during fiscal 1997 tested a new advertising campaign and a new signage
package. The HomeGoods stores offer a broad and deep range of home fashion
products, including giftware, domestics, rugs, bath accessories, lamps and
seasonal merchandise in a no-frills, multi-department format.

                                     PAGE 8


         HomeGoods' stores currently average approximately 37,000 square feet.
HomeGoods has been moving to a smaller 35,000 square foot prototype for new
openings and downsizing existing locations. HomeGoods opened 1 store and closed
2 stores in fiscal 1997 and now operates a total of 21 stores. HomeGoods and
T.J. Maxx have experimented with a new format that combines T.J. Maxx and
HomeGoods in one store and currently operates 3 such locations.

                                    T.K. MAXX

         During fiscal 1995, the Company began testing the off-price family
apparel concept in Europe by opening its first 5 T.K. Maxx stores in the United
Kingdom. T.K. Maxx utilizes the same off-price strategy employed by T.J. Maxx,
Marshalls and Winners. At the end of fiscal 1997, the Company had a total of 18
stores and has plans to open approximately 15 stores in fiscal 1998. Most of
these openings will be in the United Kingdom with several openings anticipated
in other European countries.

                                    EMPLOYEES

         At January 25, 1997, the Company had approximately 56,000 employees,
many of whom work less than 40 hours per week. In addition, temporary employees
are hired during the peak back-to-school and holiday seasons. The Company has
collective bargaining agreements with the Union of Needletrades and Textile
Employees ("UNITE"), formerly the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union,
covering approximately 3,200 employees in its distribution facilities in
Worcester and Mansfield, Massachusetts; Evansville, Indiana; Las Vegas, Nevada;
Charlotte, North Carolina; and Decatur, Georgia. A new three year agreement,
effective January 1, 1997, was ratified by the union workers in Charlotte.
Negotiations are currently being conducted with UNITE for an agreement covering
Decatur, Georgia union workers, and negotiations for union workers at the
Worcester, Mansfield and Las Vegas facilities will be scheduled prior to the
December 31, 1997, expiration of current contracts. The Company considers its
labor/management relations and overall employee relations to be good.

                                   COMPETITION

         The retail apparel business is highly competitive. The Company
generally competes for customers with a variety of conventional and discount
retail stores, including national, regional and local independent department and
specialty stores, as well as with catalog operations, factory outlet stores and
other off-price stores. In recent years, the Company has encountered increased
competition from department stores which have become more focused on promotions
to increase sales. Competitive factors important to the Company's customers
include fashion, value, merchandise selection, brand name recognition and, to a
lesser degree, store location. In addition, because the Company purchases much
of its inventory opportunistically, the Company competes for merchandise with
other national and regional off-price apparel and other discount outlets. Also,
many of the Company's competitors handle identical or similar lines of
merchandise and have comparable locations, and some have greater financial
resources than the Company. The Company believes that the Marshalls acquisition
has enhanced its competitiveness.

                                     PAGE 9


                                     CREDIT

         The Company's stores operate primarily on a cash-and-carry basis. Each
chain accepts credit sales through programs offered by banks and others.

                             BUYING AND DISTRIBUTION

         The T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains are serviced by a single centralized
buying organization while each of the other chains has its own centralized
buying organization. All of the Company's chains are serviced through their own
distribution network. Each T.J. Maxx store is serviced by one of the chain's
four distribution centers in Worcester, Massachusetts, Evansville, Indiana, Las
Vegas, Nevada and Charlotte, North Carolina. Shipments are made twice a week by
contract carrier to each store. Each Marshalls store is serviced by one of the
chain's four main distribution centers in Woburn, Massachusetts; Decatur,
Georgia; Chatsworth, California; and Bridgewater, Virginia. Winners Apparel Ltd.
stores are serviced from a distribution center in Brampton, Ontario, HomeGoods
stores are serviced from a distribution center in Mansfield, Massachusetts, and
T.K. Maxx stores are serviced from a distribution center in Milton Keynes,
England.

ITEM 2.    Properties

         All of the Company's chains lease virtually all of their store
locations. Leases are generally for 10 years with options to extend for one or
more 5 year periods. The Company has the right to terminate certain leases
before the expiration date under certain circumstances and for a specified
payment.

         The approximate average size of a T.J. Maxx store is 29,000 square
feet, Marshalls stores average approximately 32,000 square feet, Winners stores
are approximately 25,000 square feet on average, HomeGoods stores currently
average approximately 37,000 square feet and T.K. Maxx stores average
approximately 27,000 square feet. The Company owns four T.J. Maxx distribution
facilities - a 526,000 square foot facility in Worcester, Massachusetts; a
983,000 square foot facility in Evansville, Indiana; a 400,000 square foot
facility in Las Vegas, Nevada; and a 600,000 square foot facility in Charlotte,
North Carolina. The Company owns one of the Marshalls distribution facilities, a
856,000 square foot facility in Decatur, Georgia. In addition, Marshalls leases
its other three main distribution facilities - a 837,000 square foot facility in
Woburn, Massachusetts; a 183,000 square foot facility in Chatsworth, California;
and a 700,000 square foot facility in Bridgewater, Virginia. Winners leases a
391,000 square foot distribution center in Brampton, Ontario and 56,000 square
feet of office space in Mississaugau, Ontario. HomeGoods leases a 205,000 square
foot distribution center in Mansfield, Massachusetts. T.K. Maxx in the United
Kingdom has leased a 108,000 square foot office and distribution facility in
Milton Keynes, England and a 16,500 square foot office space in Watford,
England. The Company's, T.J. Maxx's, Marshalls' and HomeGoods' executive and
administrative offices are located in a 517,000 square foot office facility,
which the Company leases in Framingham, Massachusetts along with an additional
100,000 square feet of office space in the Framingham area.

                                    PAGE 10


         The table below indicates the approximate gross square footage of
stores and distribution centers, by division, in operation as of January 25,
1997.



ITEM 3.    Legal Proceedings

         There is no litigation pending against the Company or any of its
subsidiaries which the Company believes is material.

ITEM 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         There was no matter submitted to a vote of the Company's security
holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997.

                                    PAGE 11

ITEM 4A.   Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The following persons are the executive officers of the Company as of
the date hereof:



         The foregoing were elected to their current Company offices by the
Board of Directors in June 1996. All officers hold office until the next annual
meeting of the Board in June 1997 and until their successors are elected and
qualified.

                                    PAGE 12

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Security
           Holder Matters

         The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference from page 34 of the Annual Report, under the caption "Price Range of
Common Stock," and from inside the back cover of the Annual Report, under the
caption "Shareholder Information."

ITEM 6.    Selected Financial Data

         The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference from page 34 of the Annual Report, under the caption "Selected
Financial Data."

ITEM 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
           Results of Operations

         The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference from pages 35 through 37 of the Annual Report, under the caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition."

ITEM 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The information required by this Item and not filed with this report as
Financial Statement Schedules is incorporated herein by reference from
pages 16 through 32 of the Annual Report, under the captions; "Consolidated
Statements of Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows," "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity," "Selected
Information by Major Business Segment" and "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements."

ITEM 9.    Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

         Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The Company will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
definitive Proxy Statement no later than 120 days after the close of its fiscal
year ended January 25, 1997 (the "Proxy Statement"). The information required by
this Item and not given in Item 4A, Executive Officers of the Registrant, is
incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement. However, information under the
captions "Executive Compensation Committee Report" and "Performance Graph" in
the Proxy Statement is not so incorporated.

ITEM 11.   Executive Compensation

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

                                    PAGE 13


ITEM 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)      Financial Statement Schedules

         The Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules filed as
part of this report are listed and indexed at Page F-1.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

         The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of October 18,
1996 regarding the Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of October 18, 1996 entered
into by the Company and Brylane, L.P. (Brylane) regarding the sale of the
Chadwick's division by the Company to Brylane. This Form 8-K also included the
Company's statement of cautionary factors relating to forward-looking
information.

         The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of December 7,
1996 relating to the consummation of the sale of Chadwick's by the Company to
Brylane.

(c)      Exhibits

         Listed below are all Exhibits filed as part of this report. Certain
Exhibits are incorporated by reference to documents previously filed by the
Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 12b-32
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit
No.        Description of Exhibit
- -------    ----------------------

3(i).1     Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed June 5, 1985 is
           incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (3i)(a) to the Form 10-K
           filed for the fiscal year ended January 28, 1995.

3(i).2     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
           Incorporation filed June 3, 1986 is incorporated herein by reference
           to Exhibit (3i)(b) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 28, 1995.

3(i).3     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
           Incorporation filed June 2, 1987 is incorporated herein by reference
           to Exhibit (3i)(c) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 28, 1995.

                                    PAGE 14


3(i).4     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
           Incorporation filed June 20, 1989 is incorporated herein by reference
           to Exhibit (3i)(d) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 28, 1995.

3(i).5     Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series E
           Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock is incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

3(ii).1    The by-laws of the Company, as amended, are incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit (3ii)(a) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal
           year ended January 28, 1995.

4.1        Credit Agreement dated as of November 17, 1995 among The First
           National Bank of Chicago, Bank of America Illinois, The Bank of New
           York, and Pearl Street L.P., as co-arrangers, the other financial
           institution parties thereto, and the Company is incorporated by
           reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

           Each other instrument relates to securities the total amount of which
     does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries
     on a consolidated basis. The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities
     and Exchange Commission copies of each such instrument not otherwise filed
     herewith or incorporated herein by reference.

10.2       The Employment Agreement dated as of January 26, 1997 with Bernard
           Cammarata is filed herewith. *

10.3       The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1,
           1995 with Richard Lesser is incorporated herein by reference to
           Exhibit (10)(e) to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
           28, 1995. The Amendment dated as of April 7, 1997 to the Amended and
           Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1, 1995 with
           Richard Lesser is filed herewith. *

10.4       The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1,
           1995 with Donald G. Campbell is incorporated herein by reference to
           Exhibit (10)(f) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 28, 1995. The Amendment dated as of April 7, 1997 to the
           Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of February 1,
           1995 with Donald G. Campbell is filed herewith. *

10.5       The Management Incentive Plan, as amended, is incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year
           ended January 29, 1994. *

10.6       The 1982 Long Range Management Incentive Plan, as amended, is
           incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Form 10-K
           filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *

10.7       The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan as amended through April 9, 1997 is
           filed herewith. *

                                    PAGE 15


10.8       The TJX Companies, Inc. Long Range Performance Incentive Plan, as
           amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the
           Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994. *

10.9       The General Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, is incorporated
           herein by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Form 10-K filed for the
           fiscal year ended January 27, 1990. *

10.10      The Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended, is
           incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Form 10-K
           filed for the fiscal year ended January 25, 1992. *

10.11      The 1993 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated
           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed for the
           quarter ended May 1, 1993. *

10.12      The Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended, is incorporated herein
           by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed for the quarter
           ended May 1, 1993. *

10.13      The form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of
           its officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference to
           Exhibit 10(r) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 27, 1990. *

10.14      The Trust Agreement dated as of April 8, 1988 between the Company and
           State Street Bank and Trust Company is incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year
           ended January 30, 1988. *

10.15      The Trust Agreement dated as of April 8, 1988 between the Company and
           Shawmut Bank of Boston, N.A. is incorporated herein by reference to
           Exhibit 10(z) to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 30, 1988. *

10.16      Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 between the
           Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference
           to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 14, 1995.

10.17      Amendment Number One dated as of November 17, 1995 to the Stock
           Purchase Agreement dated as of October 14, 1995 between the Company
           and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to the
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

10.18      Transitional Services Agreement dated as of November 17, 1995 between
           the Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by
           reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995.

10.19      Amendment Number Two dated as of February 1, 1996 to Stock Purchase
           Agreement and Transitional Services Agreement between the Company and
           Melville Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to the Form
           10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 27, 1996.

                                    PAGE 16


10.20      Standstill and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 17,
           1995 between the Company and Melville Corporation is incorporated
           herein by reference to the Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended
           January 27, 1996.

10.21      Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of October 18, 1996 between the
           Company and Brylane, L.P. is incorporated herein by reference to the
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 18, 1996.

10.22      The Distribution Agreement dated as of May 1, 1989 between the
           Company and Waban Inc. is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
           3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 21, 1989.
           The First Amendment to Distribution Agreement dated as of April 18,
           1997 between the Company and Waban Inc. is filed herewith.

10.23      The Indemnification Agreement dated as of April 18, 1997 by and
           between the Company and BJ's Wholesale Club, Inc. is filed herewith.

11         Statement re computation of per share earnings.

           This statement is filed herewith.

13         Annual Report to security holders.

           Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
           ended January 25, 1997 are filed herewith.

21         Subsidiaries.

           A list of the Registrant's subsidiaries is filed herewith.

23         Consents of experts and counsel.

           The Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. is contained on Page F-3 of
           the Financial Statements filed herewith.

24         Power of Attorney.

           The Power of Attorney given by the Directors and certain Executive
           Officers of the Company is filed herewith.

*  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                    PAGE 17


                                   SIGNATURES


         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.




                                        THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.



Dated: April 25, 1997
                                        /s/ Donald G. Campbell
                                        ----------------------------------
                                        Donald G. Campbell
                                        Executive Vice President - Finance


                                    PAGE 18


         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.





/s/ BERNARD CAMMARATA                       /s/ DONALD G. CAMPBELL
- ----------------------------------          ----------------------------------
Bernard Cammarata, President                Donald G. Campbell, Executive
and Principal Executive Officer             Vice President - Finance,
and Director                                Principal Financial and
                                            Accounting Officer




PHYLLIS B. DAVIS*                           JOHN F. O'BRIEN*
- ----------------------------------          ----------------------------------
Phyllis B. Davis, Director                  John F. O'Brien, Director




DENNIS F. HIGHTOWER*                        ROBERT F. SHAPIRO*
- ----------------------------------          ----------------------------------
Dennis F. Hightower                         Robert F. Shapiro, Director




RICHARD LESSER*                             WILLOW B. SHIRE*
- ----------------------------------          ----------------------------------
Richard Lesser, Director                    Willow B. Shire, Director




ARTHUR F. LOEWY*                            FLETCHER H. WILEY*
- ----------------------------------          ----------------------------------
Arthur F. Loewy, Director                   Fletcher H. Wiley, Director



JOHN M. NELSON*
- ----------------------------------          
John M. Nelson, Director


                                            * By /s/ DONALD G. CAMPBELL
                                            ----------------------------------
                                            Donald G. Campbell
Dated: April 25, 1997                       as attorney-in-fact

                                    PAGE 19


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549



                             THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.



                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT



                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                       AND
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



                           For the Fiscal Years Ended
                       January 25, 1997, January 27, 1996
                              and January 28, 1995

                    THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

          For Fiscal Years Ended January 25, 1997, January 27, 1996 and
                                January 28, 1995



Report of Independent Accountants                                         F-2

Consent of Independent Accountants                                        F-3

Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)                             38*

Consolidated Financial Statements:

         Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal
         years ended January 25, 1997, January 27, 1996 and
         January 28, 1995                                                 16*

         Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 25, 1997
         and January 27, 1996                                             17*

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal
         years ended January 25, 1997, January 27, 1996 and
         January 28, 1995                                                 18*

         Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for
         the fiscal years ended January 25, 1997, January 27,
         1996 and January 28, 1995                                        19*

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                       21-32*

Schedules

         (II) Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                           F-4


*        Refers to page numbers in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders
         for the fiscal year ended January 25, 1997, certain portions of which
         pages are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this report
         as indicated.

                                      F-1




                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



         Our report on the consolidated financial statements of The TJX
Companies, Inc. has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from page
33 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders of The TJX Companies, Inc. In
connection with our audits of such financial statements, we have also audited
the related financial statement schedules listed in the index on page F-1 of
this Form 10-K.

         In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.




Boston, Massachusetts
February 25, 1997                           Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.


                                       F-2

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



         We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements of The TJX Companies, Inc. on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-5501 and
33-60059) and on Forms S-8 (File Nos.33-23613, 33-49747 and 33-12220) of our
report dated February 25, 1997 on our audits of the consolidated financial
statements of The TJX Companies, Inc. as of January 25, 1997 and January 27,
1996 and for the years ended January 25, 1997, January 27, 1996 and January 28,
1995 which report is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.


Boston, Massachusetts
April 22, 1997                              Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.





                                     F-3







                             THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



(A) Additions are primarily for the estimated costs associated with the sale of
    Chadwick's in the fiscal year ended January 25, 1997. Additions for the
    fiscal year ended January 27, 1996 are primarily for estimated costs
    associated with the sale of the Hit or Miss Division including costs to
    close 69 stores and to settle or otherwise dispose of related leases.

(B) Additions for fiscal 1997 are for certain restructuring costs of HomeGoods.
    Additions for fiscal 1996, include $35 million for estimated cost of closing
    approximately 30 T.J. Maxx stores in connection with the acquisition of
    Marshalls and $3.8 million for certain restructuring costs of HomeGoods
    operation.

(C) Represents the initial reserve established in the allocation of the purchase
    price of Marshalls relating primarily to the anticipated closing of
    approximately 170 Marshalls stores. The reserve also includes a reserve for
    markdowns on inventory acquired, legal and professional fees and the cost
    associated with the closing of other non-store facilities.

(D) Deductions relate primarily to ongoing lease obligations, net of sublease
    income, as well as settlement costs on certain leases.

(E) Deductions for fiscal 1997 include reserve adjustments of $8 million for
    reduced costs associated with the T.J. Maxx store closings and a reduction
    of $85.9 million to the Marshalls store closing reserve due to fewer planned
    closings and the reduced cost of those closings. Expenditures and charges
    against the reserve totalled $64.9 million which included $21.3 million for
    lease disposal and settlement costs with the balance primarily for inventory
    markdowns, severance and the net book value of property writeoffs.
    Deductions for fiscal 1996 are primarily for inventory markdowns and for
    HomeGoods restructuring costs including one store closing and downsizing
    expenditures.

                                       F-4




