Item 1A.Risk Factors



This section
discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and
financial condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties
applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the
following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet
identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we
could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the value of our
securities could decline.



We group these
risk factors into three categories:



•Risks arising from our business;



•Risks arising from our capital structure; and



•Risks arising from our status as a REIT.



Risks Arising from Our Business



Our investments in and
acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful
or fail to meet our expectations



We are exposed to
the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could
encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our
ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an
operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to
ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our
results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our
anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to
various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing,
on anticipated terms, or at all.  We also may be unable to quickly and
efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios
of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition.












Our
investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of
exclusive control over these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure
to meet its obligations and disputes between us and our partners





We are exposed to operational
risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could
adversely affect our revenue and operations



We are exposed to
various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating
properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to
generate revenues. These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic
conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the
availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability
insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to
entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a
result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors
may adversely affect our revenue and operations.



Decreases in our operators’
revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’
ability to make payments to us



Our operators’
revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are
primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and
rent or debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may
continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget
shortfalls. Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the
extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses
result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the
credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be
relied upon. To the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need
to record an impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose
of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such
impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.



The continued
weakened economy may also have an adverse effect on our operators and tenants,
including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy and/or private pay
rates. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators
are materially adversely impacted by economic conditions, our revenue and
operations may be adversely affected.



Increased competition may
affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations tous



The operators of
our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of
properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. We
cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to
achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet
all of their obligations to us. Our operators are expected to encounter
increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract
residents or expand their businesses.



The insolvency or bankruptcy
of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition



We are exposed to
the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and
interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or
insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency
proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide
us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate










payment
of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to
terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and
unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the
bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed
for bankruptcy or reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to
insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect
unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest
in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.



We may be required
to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve
the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a
property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we
have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another
tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to
and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a
leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which
may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue
and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.



We may not be able to timely
reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us



From time to time,
we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities,
(2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or
similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues
and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these
proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a
broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive
investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on
terms acceptable to us.



Failure to properly manage
our rapid growth could distract our management or increaseour
expenses



We have
experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time
and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. This growth has
resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. Future
property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and
require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to
manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in
particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows,
which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to
stockholders. Our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which
may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur
additional debt.



We depend on Genesis
HealthCare, LLC (“Genesis”) for a significant portion of our revenues and any
inability or unwillingness by Genesis to satisfy its obligations under its
agreements with us could adversely affect us



The properties we
lease to Genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because
our leases with Genesis are triple-net leases, we also depend on Genesis to pay
all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in
connection with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that Genesis will
have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to make
rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under our leases,
and any inability or unwillingness by Genesis to do so could have an adverse
effect on us. Genesis has also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless
from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with its business, and we cannot assure you that Genesis will have
sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable
it to satisfy its indemnification obligations.



The properties managed by Sunrise
Senior Living, LLC account for a significant portion of our revenues and
operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial
condition could adversely affect us



Sunrise Senior
Living, LLC manages our entire Sunrise property portfolio, which as of December
31, 2013, consisted of 125 seniors housing properties.  These properties
account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on Sunrise
Senior Living, LLC to manage these properties efficiently and effectively.  Any
adverse developments in Sunrise Senior Living, LLC’s business or financial
condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and
effectively, which could adversely affect us.



Ownership of property outside
the United States may subject us to different or greater risks than those
associated with our domestic operations



We have operations
in Canada and the United Kingdom. International development, ownership, and
operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with
respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are
not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to
changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or
the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and
maintain our status as a REIT;challenges with respect to
the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political,
regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and
locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of
complying










with a wide variety of foreign laws and
regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance,
operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings;foreign ownership
restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending
practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide
financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability;
and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the United States
that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks
associated with international expansion and operations, our results of
operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.



We do not know if our tenants
will renew their existing leases, and if they do not,we may be
unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all



We cannot predict
whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms,
which expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we would be
required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. There
can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement
tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as
the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all.



Our operators’ may not have the necessary
insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses



In recent years,
skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial
increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. As a
result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some
markets. General and professional liability insurance coverage may be
restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators’
futureoperations, cash
flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the
property operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.



Our ownership of properties
through ground leases exposes us to the loss of suchproperties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases



We have acquired
an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in
the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional
properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As
the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing
the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the
ground lease by us.



The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid,
could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’
ability to meet their obligations to us





The Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as modified by the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”),
provides those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible
state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with
an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective January 1, 2014,
when certain conditions are met. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme
Court upheld the individual mandate of the Health Reform Laws but partially
invalidated the expansion of Medicaid. The ruling on Medicaid expansion allows
states to elect not to participate in the expansion—and to forego funding for
the Medicaid expansion—without losing their existing Medicaid funding. Given
that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is
unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of
late January 2014, roughly half of the states have made statements or otherwise
indicated that they do not intend to expand Medicaid coverage at this time. The
participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the










dual effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through
new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our
tenants. While the federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those
additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be expected to pay for part of
those additional costs beginning in 2017. In light of this, at least one state
that has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its Medicaid coverage
has included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that the
expanded benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government’s funding
for the program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to re-visit
the issue once it begins to share financial responsibility for the expansion.
With increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do not
include such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional
Medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a
result. A significant reduction in other health care related spending by states
to pay for increased Medicaid costs could affect our tenants’ revenue streams.
See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States —
Reimbursement” above and “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Health Care Industry — Health
Reform Laws” below.



More generally,
and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment
for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit
and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based,
far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy,
our business or that of our operators and tenants.



Our operators’ or tenants’
failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely
affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our
operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us



Our operators and
tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and
industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these
laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial
of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability
to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 —
Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Other Related Laws”
above.



Many of our
properties may require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need (“CON”)
to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a
required license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating
in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could
materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent
payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including
the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and
the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or
other similar approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above.



Illiquidity of real estate
investments could significantly impede our ability torespond to
adverse changes in the performance of our properties



Real estate
investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange
any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions
will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value
for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our
inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments
couldadversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to
the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in
particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the
real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our
ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.



Unfavorable resolution of
pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition



From time to time,
we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and
other claims. We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising
out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which
such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome,
litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly
divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future
litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government
proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or
interruption of our normal business operations.



Development, redevelopment
and construction risks could affect our profitability












At any given time, we may be in the process of
constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and
license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. The
operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter
into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor
contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary
CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion
of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues
on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or
certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements
or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain
a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary
provider agreements or contracts.



In connection with
our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities,
we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our
abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our
development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and
lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
service expense or construction costs.



Additionally, the
time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these
properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns.
Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the
cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to
borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and
acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could
adversely affect our overall financial performance.



In deciding
whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions
regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we
estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates
and capital costs. If our financial projections with respect to a new property
are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the
property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our
estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may
prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our
profitability goals. Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not
fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to
pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property.



We may
experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which
could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we
have invested in a property





We may incur costs to
remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an
adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition



Under various
federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to
respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and
may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that
result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We
may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in
connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a
person based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or
borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property.
Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we
own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are
designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe
qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities
arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our
properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However,
environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of
our obligors.












Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information



Our business is at
risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to
gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic
security breaches. Such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to
gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more
sophisticated security threats. While we employ a number of measures to
prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts
will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and compromise the confidential information of our
employees, operators and tenants.



Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions



Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.



Our success depends on key
personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed



We are dependent
on key personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our
executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an
adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could have
a material adverse impact on our business.



Risks Arising from Our Capital
Structure



We may become more leveraged



Permanent
financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of
public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption
of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to
become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion
of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to
a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional
financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or
more of the rating agencies.



We are subject to covenants
in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and
acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt
agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition



Our debt
agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among
other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios
and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur
indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of
these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the
applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted
against such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Limitations on our ability to
access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments



We cannot assure
you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.  Our
access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or
no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market
conditions; the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and
potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the
shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the
financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet
their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us;
changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or
delay in payment by the United States of its obligations. If our access to
capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively
impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness,
fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders.



Also, the federal
government’s failure to increase the amount of debt that it is statutorily
permitted to incur as needed to meet its future financial commitments or a
downgrade in the debt rating on U.S. government securities could lead to a
weakened U.S.










dollar, rising interest rates and
constrained access to capital, which could materially adversely affect the U.S.
and global economies, increase our costs of borrowing and have a material
adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or
financial condition.



Downgrades in our credit
ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of
capital



We plan to manage
the Company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current
profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our
current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or
all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.



Fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position



As we expand our
operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect
our results of operations and financial position. We expect to generate an
increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as
the Canadian dollar and the British pound. Although we may enter into foreign
exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency
mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations
will not have a material adverse effect on us.



Our entry into swap
agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates
or foreign currency exchange rates



We enter into swap
agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate
and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. These swap agreements involve
risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective
in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency
exchange rates. When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a
risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap
is intended to hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be
adversely affected.



Risks Arising from Our Status as
a REIT



We might fail to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT



We intend to
operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If
we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that
will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations
and for distribution to our stockholders because:



•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;

•we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could
not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the
year during which we were disqualified.



Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number
of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and
if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other
income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could
distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be
required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required
to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or avoid an
excise tax. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations” above for a discussion of the provisions of the Code that apply
to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT.



In addition, if
we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue
to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated
earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the
dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for
taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains
(currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions.



As a result of
all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our
ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value
of our common stock.












Qualification as a REIT involves the application of
highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited
judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect
our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify
as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain
qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations” above.



The 90% annual distribution
requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in
otherwise beneficial transactions





The lease of qualified health
care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements



We lease certain
qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited
liability companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which
lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care
operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary
lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they
are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property
with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible
independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are
not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a
REIT — Income Tests”above.



If certain sale-leaseback
transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as “true
leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences















