
10-K405
FORM 10-K DATED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark one)
( X )  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
       ACT OF 1934
       For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997
                                       OR
(   )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

       Commission File Number 1-7463

                         JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

               DELAWARE                             95-4081636
       (State of incorporation)       (I.R.S. employer identification number)

1111 SOUTH ARROYO PARKWAY, PASADENA, CALIFORNIA      91105
    (Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (626) 578-3500
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                          NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
               TITLE OF EACH CLASS         ON WHICH REGISTERED
               -------------------         -------------------
           Common Stock, $1 par value     New York Stock Exchange

INDICATE BY CHECK-MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS
REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.  ( x ) YES     (   )  NO

INDICATE BY CHECK-MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF THE REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION
STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT
TO THIS FORM 10-K.  ( x )

                              ___________________

The aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting stock held by non-
affiliates was approximately $547,214,000 as of December 19, 1997, based upon
the last reported sales price on the New York Stock Exchange.  For this purpose,
the Registrant considers Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs to be its only affiliate.

As of December 19, 1997, the Registrant had outstanding 25,664,660 shares of its
common stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement issued in connection
with its 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part II and Part III).

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL
- -------
     Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the "Company") is one of the largest
professional service firms in the United States providing engineering, design
and consulting services; construction and construction management services; and
process plant maintenance services to a broad range of industrial, commercial
and governmental clients.  The Company provides its services through offices and
subsidiaries located throughout the United States, Europe and India.

     The Company focuses its services on selected industry groups and markets
including chemicals; petroleum; semiconductor; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals
and biotechnology; federal programs; and buildings and infrastructure (this last
group includes transportation and health care projects, commercial and
governmental buildings, and other industrial projects).

     Over the past several years, the Company has grown its business through
both internal initiatives and strategic acquisitions.  Such acquisitions have
allowed the Company to (i) expand or enhance the range of services it provides
its clients; (ii) expand its client base; and (iii) provide access to new
geographical areas.  The following is a description of some of the more
significant acquisitions made by the Company over the past five years.  It is
not intended to list in detail all acquisitions made, but rather it is meant to
assist in the understanding of the general development of the Company's business
over the past five years (the year of acquisition is shown parenthetically):

     Humphreys & Glasgow ("H&G")      This was one of the Company's earlier
                                      acquisitions outside the United States.
                                      H&G provides broad-based process
                                      engineering and design skills, and a large
                                      client base in the chemicals,
                                      pharmaceuticals and petroleum industries,
                                      among others. (Fiscal 1993)

     The Wolder Group                 This acquisition broadened the Company's
                                      geographic presence for its clients in the
                                      petroleum industry. It also helped to
                                      diversify the Company's west coast
                                      operations. (Fiscal 1993)

     The Sigel Group                  This acquisition expanded the Company's
                                      technical and project management
                                      capabilities in the biotechnology /
                                      pharmaceuticals industries. (Fiscal 1993)

     CRS Sirrine & CRSS Constructors  These acquisitions greatly expanded the
                                      Company's professional staff. They
                                      provided broad-based skills in the pulp
                                      and paper market (which was a new market
                                      for the Company), and enhanced the
                                      Company's capabilities for its clients in
                                      both the semiconductor and buildings &
                                      infrastructure markets. These acquisitions
                                      also strengthened the Company's
                                      capabilities in the area of construction
                                      management services, expanded the
                                      Company's client base, and provided
                                      increased resources in the southeast
                                      region of the United States. (Fiscal 1994)

                                    Page 1

 
      HGC India                       From 1993, when the Company acquired H&G,
                                      to 1997 HGC India was an unconsolidated
                                      affiliate of the Company. This acquisition
                                      gave the Company access to the Southern
                                      Asia market, expanded the Company's client
                                      base, added professional staff, and
                                      enhanced its existing engineering
                                      capabilities.
                                      (Fiscal 1997)

     The Serete Group                 This acquisition provided the Company with
                                      an established presence on continental
                                      Europe. It added professional staff, and
                                      enhanced the Company's existing
                                      engineering capabilities. It also expanded
                                      the Company's client base in several key
                                      market groups.
                                      (Fiscal 1997)

     In addition to the particular advantages described above, these
acquisitions, along with all other acquisitions made by the Company over the
past five years, allowed the Company to grow its relationships with its major
clients.  By expanding into new geographical areas, and by adding to its
existing technical and project management capabilities, the Company strives to
position itself as a preferred, single-source provider of professional
engineering and construction services to its major clients.

     The Company is a Delaware corporation and was originally incorporated in
1957 as a successor to a business organized by Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs in 1947.
The Company's common stock has been publicly held since 1970 and is currently
listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

SERVICES PROVIDED
- -----------------
     The Company offers three broad categories of professional services:
engineering (which includes design, consulting and other related services);
construction and construction management; and plant maintenance.  The Company
will often establish a relationship with a client where it is awarded a contract
for the initial phases of an engineering and/or construction project.  These
services may include feasibility studies, consulting or design work.  Because of
the range of technical expertise the Company possesses, it is often retained for
additional work as the project develops.  The scope of services provided by the
Company, therefore, ranges from consulting to complete single-responsibility
contracts.

     The following table sets forth the total revenues of the Company from each
of its three basic service categories for each of the five years ended September
30, 1997 (in thousands of dollars):



Engineering
- -----------

       The Company employs all of the engineering and related disciplines needed
to engineer and design modern process plants (including projects for clients in
the chemicals, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, petroleum, food, and minerals
and fertilizers industries), semiconductor facilities, pulp and paper plants,
and other facilities (such as high technology manufacturing operations and other
specialized plants).

     With respect to the environmental area of the Company's business (see
"Industry Groups and Markets - Federal Programs", below), the Company employs
all of the requisite engineering, scientific, public health and related skills
to consult, investigate, study, manage and provide remedial engineering for

                                    Page 2

 
major environmental programs.  The Company's capabilities in process engineering
and construction combined with its environmental expertise allow it to offer its
clients a wide range of services as a single-source provider.  Accordingly, the
Company has been awarded contracts requiring a combination of traditional
process engineering and environmental services.

     The Company also employs all of the professional and technical expertise
necessary to provide a broad range of consulting services including:  performing
pricing studies, market analyses and financial projections necessary in
determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation
modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex
processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing,
designing and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing
process protocols in respect of Federal Drug Administration mandated
qualification/validation requirements; and performing geological and
metallurgical studies.

     Also included in the category of "Engineering" are all of the related
support services necessary for the proper and effective delivery of the
Company's engineering and related services.  Among these are cost engineering,
planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, project accounting, quality and
safety.

     Construction
     ------------

       The Company provides traditional field construction as well as
construction management services to private and public sector clients in
virtually all of the industries to which it provides engineering services.  The
Company can also provide its clients with Advanced Construction Technology
("ACT")(R).  ACT is an advanced form of off-site engineering, design,
fabrication and assembly, and field erection.  ACT provides clients with an
alternative approach to traditional methods of engineering and construction
which can significantly reduce new plant costs.  In the environmental area,
recent contract awards from clients in the public sector require the Company to
provide environmental remedial construction services.

     The Company's field construction activities are focused primarily on those
construction projects for which the Company has performed the engineering and
design work.  By focusing its construction efforts on such projects, the Company
avoids the risk of constructing complex plants based on designs prepared by
others.  The financial risk to the Company of constructing complex plants based
on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed-
price contracts.

     The Company actively markets all of its services to clients on projects
where the scope of services required is within the Company's fields of
expertise.  The Company believes that by integrating and bundling its services
(i.e., providing design, engineering and construction services on the same
project) it can price its services more competitively and can enhance the
overall contract profitability.  The Company also believes that clients benefit
from such an approach because they can look to the Company as a single-source
provider of design/build services.  However, the Company will continue to pursue
construction-only projects where it can negotiate pricing and other contract
terms acceptable to the Company.

     In the area of construction management, the Company can provide a wide
range of services to its clients.  The Company may act as the program director,
whereby it oversees, on behalf of the owner of the project, the complete
planning, design and construction phases of the project.  Or, its services may
be limited to providing construction consulting, estimating, scheduling or value
engineering services.

     Maintenance
     -----------

       Maintenance generally refers to all of the tasks required to keep a plant
in day-to-day operation, including the repair and replacement of pumps, piping,
heat exchangers and other equipment.  It also includes "turnaround" work which
involves major refurbishment which can only be performed when the plant is shut
down.  Since shutdowns are expensive to the owners of the plant, turnaround work
will often require maximizing the number of skilled craft personnel that can
work efficiently on a project on a 24 hours per day, seven days per week basis.
The Company employs sophisticated computer scheduling 

                                    Page 3

 
and programming to complete turnaround projects quickly and it maintains contact
with a large pool of skilled craftsmen it can hire as needed on maintenance and
turnaround projects.

     Although the profit margins that can be realized from maintenance services
are generally lower than those associated with the other services the Company
provides, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower
than those associated with the Company's other services.  Furthermore, since
maintenance contracts are normally cost-reimbursable in nature, they present
less risk to the Company.  Additionally, although engineering and construction
projects may be of a short-term nature, maintenance services often result in
long-term relationships with clients.  For example, the Company has been
providing maintenance services at several major process plants for over 30
years.  This aspect of maintenance services greatly reduces the selling costs in
respect of such services.

INDUSTRY GROUPS AND MARKETS
- ---------------------------
     The Company has chosen to focus its efforts on the following industry
groups and markets: chemicals; petroleum; semiconductor; buildings and
infrastructure; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; and U.S.
federal programs.  The Company believes these industry groups and markets have
sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of the Company's resources
which help to mitigate the negative effects of a downturn in a single industry.

     The following table sets forth the total revenues of the Company from each
of these industry groups and markets for each of the five years ended September
30, 1997 (in thousands of dollars):



     In the area of federal programs, the Company historically has provided
primarily environmental restoration, engineering and consulting services.
However, several of the more recent contracts awarded to the Company are for
engineering, construction and project management services for the remediation of
sites contaminated with hazardous wastes.  Maintenance services are provided
primarily to the chemicals and petroleum industries.

     Chemicals
     ---------

       The Company has always considered the chemicals industry a cornerstone of
its business.  Revenues from this industry group have consistently accounted for
a significant share of each year's total revenues.  Historically, whenever the
Company has sought to expand its business, the impact of such expansion on the
Company's chemicals business has always been an important consideration.  The
Company's first office outside the United States was opened in support of a
bulk-chemical project for a large, U.S. company seeking to expand its operations
internationally.

     Currently, the Company furnishes its full line of services to its clients
operating in the chemicals industries.  The Company has provided technical,
financial, marketing and management consulting services to many of the largest
chemical manufacturers in the world.  The Company can perform feasibility
studies, as well as preliminary and detailed design and engineering services,
construction, and construction management services to its clients in this
industry.  Typical projects range from high-pressure polymer processes for the
production of bulk chemicals, to low-pressure, multi-product processes for the

                                    Page 4

 
production of fine and specialty chemicals.  The Company has also completed
projects dealing with the modernization and upgrading of polyethelene and liquid
polymer production facilities.  The Company has extensive knowledge of, and
experience with, advance polymer technologies, as well as many specialty
chemicals.

     Semiconductor
     -------------
     The Company provides engineering, procurement, construction, and
construction management services to its clients in the semiconductor industry.
Typical projects in this industry include multi-million dollar state-of-the-art
wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce microprocessors
for computers and other consumer electronic devices.  Generally, projects in the
semiconductor industry are more complex than other facilities projects and have
greater emphasis on cleanroom, and similar high-end technologies.

     Petroleum
     ---------
       The Company provides its full line of services to its clients in the
petroleum industry. Typical projects in the petroleum area include retrofits,
revamps or expansions of existing plants, upgrading individual process units
within refineries, new construction and maintenance services. The Company also
provides a broad range of consulting services to its clients, including
feasibility and multi-client studies. Although the Company's revenues
historically have related primarily to projects associated with petroleum
refining, more recent contract awards are for services to pipeline companies and
companies in businesses upstream of refiners.

     Since 1993, many of the Company's contract awards in the petroleum area
have been for plants producing oxygenates and other high-octane fuel blending
components for gasoline (such components are required by the Clean Air Act of
1990 in reformulated gasolines in order to reduce the emissions of unburned
hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide from automobiles), as well as plants that
hydrotreat various fuel fractions to reduce the sulfur content of blended
products.  The Company has completed several major projects to design, engineer,
procure and construct methyl tertiary butyl ether ("MTBE") units and tertiary
amyl butyl ether ("TAME") units for a number of major refiners at facilities
located throughout the United States.  The Company has also utilized its off-
site construction capabilities in the construction and installation of these
units.  The use of off-site construction can help decongest the construction
site and allow for parallel construction to proceed simultaneously with the
modular activity.

     A significant aspect of the Company's service to this industry is in the
area of contract maintenance.  The Company has contracts with several major oil
refiners for on-site maintenance and turnaround activities.  Many of these
contracts are evergreen in nature and tend to be extended over many years.

     Another important aspect of this industry group has been the development of
performance-based partnering relationships with clients.  Over the past several
years, the Company has entered into evergreen engineering services contracts
with several clients.  Such agreements have been both site-specific and national
in scope.  Often, these alliances provide the Company with opportunities to
expand its services to include fully-integrated engineering, procurement,
construction and construction management services.

     Federal Programs
     ----------------
       A significant portion of the Company's Federal Programs revenues are
derived from environmental projects.  The Company believes it is one of the
leading providers in the United States of environmental restoration, engineering
and consulting services, including hazardous waste management and site cleanup
and closure.  Many of the projects for the U.S. government span several years.
For larger programs, the scope of services is such that the Company sometimes
teams with other companies in order to execute the project.  The Company is
currently providing environmental restoration, engineering, construction and
site operations and maintenance services for a number of U.S. federal 


                                    Page 5

 
government agencies including the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE"), the
Department of Defense ("DOD") and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
("USEPA").

     Demand for the Company's services in this area is strongly affected by the
level of enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, and the spending
patterns of public and private clients.  Currently, there are numerous proposals
being offered for consideration to overhaul the U.S. federal regulatory process,
the ultimate outcome of which cannot yet be determined.  Nevertheless, the
Company believes that the DOE and DOD will continue to devote increasingly more
of their resources to site remediation and cleanup.

     Typical projects for U.S. government agencies include the preparation of
feasibility studies and performance of remedial investigations, engineering,
design and remediation services on several national programs.  Many of the
Company's contracts relate to the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA" or "Superfund") and the related
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 ("SARA"), as reauthorized
in 1990.  More recently, the Company has been awarded multi-year contracts from
the U.S. Air Force to provide full-service remedial action services for the U.S.
Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence ("AFCEE") at several bases located
in the U.S., as well as a "nationwide" award to provide services under the U.S.
Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC") program.  And in 1995, the Company was
awarded the Alaska TERC (Total Environmental Restoration Contract).  The Alaska
TERC is a multi-year program to provide engineering and site cleanup services
throughout that state.  The Company also provides project management services
over site cleanup activities at various government installations, as well as
detailed scientific and support services, groundwater restoration management and
action plans, and services relating to the decommissioning of nuclear weapons
production and other defense facilities.

     Buildings and Infrastructure
     ----------------------------
       Buildings and infrastructure refers to those contracts requiring the
Company to provide comprehensive architectural, engineering, design,
construction and/or construction management services for projects such as high
technology manufacturing operations, specialized plants for clients in the food
industry, and research and development facilities that require technically
complex structures.  It also includes programming, design, program management
and construction management services for public, institutional and corporate
clients.  Typical projects include civic centers, correctional facilities,
health care facilities and transportation systems, as well as multi-purpose
buildings for industrial, commercial and government clients.

     Pulp and Paper
     --------------
       The Company provides a broad range of engineering and construction
services to its clients in the pulp and paper industry.  Additionally, the
Company provides strategic planning and conceptual studies for many of its
clients, as well as environmental services relating to compliance with USEPA
emission standards.  Typical projects in the pulp and paper area range from
small mill projects to complex, multi-million dollar paper machine rebuilds,
mill expansions and construction of new facilities.  Such projects encompass all
areas of a mill, including woodyards, pulping and bleaching, papermaking,
chemical recovery, material handling and power and steam generation.  In the
area of papermaking, the Company's expertise includes tissue and towel, coated
and uncoated fine papers, newsprint and linerboard.  The Company's expertise
also includes the converting and packaging of paper products for consumer use.
The Company has been instrumental in the design and installation of state-of-
the-art facilities for recycle fiber, deinking and pulp bleaching.  Chemical
recovery and power generation are an integral part of the papermaking process.
The Company has broad experience in these areas and has applied its expertise in
the engineering and construction of such facilities for the pulp and paper
industry.

     As with clients in the petroleum industry, the Company has established
formal partnering arrangements with certain clients in the pulp and paper
industry.  Such arrangements provide for the delivery of on-site engineering
services, and often expand to include procurement, construction and construction
management services.


                                    Page 6

 
     Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology
     ---------------------------------
       The Company furnishes its full line of services to its clients operating
in the pharmaceuticals and biotechnology industries.  The scope of services the
Company can provide its clients in these markets include feasibility studies,
preliminary and detailed design and engineering services, construction, and
construction management services.  The Company can also provide conceptual
design services with emphasis on production strategy, current good manufacturing
practices ("cGMP") compliance, regulatory compliance and
qualification/validation services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology research,
development and production facilities.  Accordingly, the Company is fully
capable of executing multi-million dollar, single-responsibility projects in the
areas of pharmaceuticals and biotechnology.

     Typical projects for clients in this industry include laboratories and
research and development facilities, vivariums, pilot plants, chemical
production facilities, full-scale biotechnology production facilities, and fill-
and-finish facilities.  These projects will often employ state-of-the-art know-
how in regulatory, barrier technology, and micro-environmental systems, as well
as automation, manufacturing and distribution management.

BACKLOG
- -------
     For information regarding the Company's backlog, reference should be made
to Item 7. -Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, incorporated by reference in this report.

CUSTOMERS
- ---------
     For the years ended September 30, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997, revenues
from agencies of the U.S. federal government accounted for 14.1%, 15.4%, 11.4%,
8.7% and 12.0%, respectively, of total revenues.  Due to the amount of pass-
through costs (see "Contracts" below) that may be incurred on construction and
maintenance projects, it is not unusual for a client in the private sector to
account for more than 10% of revenues in any given year.  One client in the
private sector accounted for 11.6% and 13.1% of total revenues in 1994 and 1995,
respectively.  A separate client accounted for 15.3% of total revenues in 1997.
No single client in the private sector accounted for 10% or more of total
revenues in 1993 or 1996.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS
- ------------------
     For the years ended September 30, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997, revenues
from the Company's international operations were approximately 10.8%, 5.6%,
5.4%, 10.3% and 23.5%, respectively, of total revenues.  For fiscal years 1993
through 1996, substantially all such revenues related to the Company's offices
in the U.K. and Ireland.  In 1997, as discussed above, the Company completed the
acquisitions of the Serete Group and HGC India.  The Serete Group has operations
throughout Europe, and executes projects for commercial clients in the
chemicals, pharmaceuticals and semiconductor industries, as well as buildings
and infrastructure projects for both commercial and governmental clients.  HGC
India has operations in India and executes projects for commercial clients in
the chemical, pharmaceuticals and petroleum markets.

CONTRACTS
- ---------
     While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the
contracts undertaken by the Company, they can generally be grouped into three
broad categories:  Cost-reimbursable; guaranteed maximum price and fixed-price.
The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by
these types of contracts during each of the five years ended September 30, 1997:



                                    Page 7

 
     In accordance with industry practice, most of the Company's contracts are
subject to termination at the discretion of the client.  Contracts typically
provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through
the date of such termination.

     When the Company is directly responsible for engineering, design,
procurement and construction of a project or the maintenance of a process plant,
the Company reflects the cost of materials, equipment and subcontracts in both
revenues and costs.  On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such
items directly, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs.
The following table presents the approximate amount of such pass-through costs
included in revenues for the years ended September 30, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996
and 1997 (in millions):

                     1993         1994        1995        1996       1997
                  ----------   ----------  ----------  ---------- ---------- 
                    $610.7       $629.0     $1,001.3    $1,019.5    $919.6

     Cost-reimbursable contracts
     ---------------------------
       Cost-reimbursable contracts provide for reimbursement of costs incurred
by the Company plus a predetermined fee, or a fee based on a percentage of the
costs incurred.  The Company prefers this type of contract since it believes
that the primary basis for its selection should be its technical expertise and
professional qualifications rather than price considerations.

     Guaranteed maximum price contracts
     ----------------------------------
       Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as
cost-reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot
exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client.  If the total actual
cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then the Company will
bear all or a portion of the excess.  In those cases where the total actual cost
and fee are less than the guaranteed price, the Company will often share the
savings on a predetermined basis with the client.

     Fixed-price contracts
     ---------------------
       Fixed-price contracts include both "negotiated fixed-price" contracts and
"lump sum bid" contracts. Under a negotiated fixed-price contract, the Company
is first selected as the contractor, and then the contract price is negotiated.
Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility
arrangements where the Company has the opportunity to perform engineering and
design work before negotiating the total price of the project. Under lump sum
bid contracts, the Company must bid against other contractors based upon
specifications furnished by the client. This type of pricing presents certain
inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications,
problems with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur
over the contract period, that are reduced by the negotiation process. Thus,
although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump
sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to the Company. However,
because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both
negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit
potential than the other types of contracts.

Competition
- -----------
     The Company is engaged in a highly competitive business.  Some of its
competitors are larger than the Company, or are subsidiaries of larger
companies, and may possess greater resources than the Company.  Furthermore,
because the engineering aspect of the business does not usually require large
amounts of capital, there is relative ease of market entry for a new potential
entrant possessing acceptable professional qualifications.  Accordingly, the
Company competes with both national and international firms in sizes ranging
from very large to a wide variety of small, regional and specialty firms.

     The extent of the Company's competition varies according to the industries
and markets it serves, as well as the regions in which the Company is located.
The Company's largest competitors for engineering, construction and maintenance
services for process plants include such well-known companies as Bechtel Group,
Inc., Fluor Corporation, Foster-Wheeler Corp., Raytheon Engineers, M.W. 


                                    Page 8

 
Kellogg, Parsons Co., Brown & Root, Inc., and John Brown. In the semiconductor
industry, the Company's principal competitor is Industrial Design Corporation.
In the area of pulp and paper, the Company's principal competitors include BE&K,
Brown & Root, and Rust International. In the area of environmental engineering
and hazardous waste cleanup, the Company's principal competitors include many of
the companies listed above, as well as other specialized companies such as IT
Corporation, ICF Kaiser and Roy F. Weston, Inc.

Employees
- ---------
     At September 30, 1997, the Company had approximately 9,570 full-time
employees.  Additionally, as of September 30, 1997, there were approximately
6,300 persons employed by the Company in the field on a project basis.  The
number of such field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the
maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     Pursuant to the requirements of Item 401(b) and 401(e) of Regulation S-K,
the following information is being furnished with respect to the Company's
executive officers:



     All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective
capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of
Messrs. Dean, Martin and Higgins, have served in executive capacities with the
Company or have been part of its management for more than five years.  Prior to
joining the Company in 1994, Messrs. Dean and Martin were part of the management
of CRSS Inc., or one of its subsidiaries for at least five years.  Before he
joined the Company in 1994, Mr. Higgins was President and Chief Executive
Officer of HazWaste Industries Inc. from 1989 to 1994.


                                    Page 9

 
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     The Company owns and leases offices for its professional, technical and
administrative staff totaling approximately 2.0 million square feet.  The
following is a list of the Company's principal locations:

    Country                  State             City                  
    -------                  -----             ----                  
     U.S.A.                  California        Pasadena              
                                               Long Beach            
                                               Sacramento            
                             Arizona           Phoenix               
                             Colorado          Denver                
                             Florida           Lakeland              
                             Louisiana         Baton Rouge           
                             New Mexico        Albuquerque           
                             North Carolina    Raleigh               
                             Ohio              Cincinnati            
                             Oregon            Portland              
                             Pennsylvania      Philadelphia          
                             South Carolina    Greenville            
                                               Orangeburg            
                             Texas             Houston               
                             Tennessee         Oak Ridge             
                             Virginia          Arlington             
                             Wisconsin         Green Bay             
     United Kingdom          -                 London                
                             -                 Glasgow               
                             -                 Manchester            
     Republic of Ireland     -                 Cork                  
                             -                 Dublin                
     France                  -                 Paris                 
                             -                 Lyon                  
     Italy                   -                 Milan                 
     Spain                   -                 Madrid                
     India                   -                 Mumbai                
                             -                 New Delhi             
                             -                 Calcutta              
     Chile                   -                 Santiago               

     In addition to these properties, the Company leases smaller, project
offices located throughout the United States and, to a certain extent, France.
The Company maintains sales offices at many of its principal locations. The
Company has equipment yards located in Houston, Texas and Baton Rouge,
Louisiana. The majority of the Company's offices are leased. The Company also
rents a portion of its construction equipment on a short-term basis.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to certain
contractual guarantees and litigation.  Generally, such guarantees relate to
construction schedules and plant performance.  Most of the litigation involves
the Company as a defendant in workers' compensation, personal injury and other
similar lawsuits.  In addition, as a contractor for many agencies of the United
States Government, the Company is subject to many levels of audits,
investigations and claims by, or on behalf of, the government with respect to
its contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations and procurement
practices.  Management believes, after consultation with counsel, that such
guarantees, litigation, and United States Government contract-related audits,
investigations and claims should not have any material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

                                    Page 10

 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS


     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from page A-26 of Exhibit 13 to this report.


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from page A-2 of Exhibit 13 to this report.


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from pages A-3 through A-7 of Exhibit 13 to this report.


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from pages A-8 through A-27 of Exhibit 13 to this report.


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL AND
          DISCLOSURE MATTERS

     Not applicable.

                                    Page 11

 
                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information required by Paragraph (a) and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of
Item 401 and by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

     See the information under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company"
in Part I of this report for information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401
of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.


                                    Page 12

 
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The Company's consolidated financial statements at September 30, 1997
         and 1996 and for each of the three years in the period ended September
         30, 1997, together with the report of the independent auditors on those
         consolidated financial statements are hereby incorporated by reference
         from Exhibit 13 to this report.

     (b)  Not applicable.

     (c)  Exhibits and Index to Exhibits:

          2.1  Purchase Agreement dated July 29, 1994 between Jacobs Engineering
               Group Inc. and CRSS Inc. including a schedule of annexes and
               exhibits. Filed as Exhibit 1. to the Registrant's Current Report
               on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

          3.1  Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended. Filed
               as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
               for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference. 

          3.2  Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended. Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.1  See Sections 5 through 18 of Exhibit 3.1.           
                                                                   
          4.2  See Article II, Section 3.03 of Article III, Article VI and
               Section 8.04 of Article VIII of Exhibit 3.2.

          4.3  Rights Agreement dated as of December 20, 1990 by and between
               Registrant and First Interstate Bank, Ltd. as Rights Agent. Filed
               as Exhibit 4.4 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference.
      
          10.1 The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1981 Executive Incentive Plan
               (As Amended and Restated). Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

          10.2 The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Incentive Bonus Plan for
               Officers and Key Managers. Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

          10.3 Agreement dated as of November 30, 1993 between the Registrant
               and Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs. Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

                                    Page 13

 
 (S) 10.4  Agreement dated as of December 4, 1997 between the Registrant and
           Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs.

     10.5  The Executive Security Program of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Filed
           as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
           the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.6  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Subsidiaries 1991 Executive
           Deferral Plan, effective June 1, 1991. Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
           Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March
           31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.7  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Subsidiaries 1993 Executive
           Deferral Plan, effective December 1, 1993. Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
           the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
           March 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.8  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
           Filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on 
           Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated 
           herein by reference.

     10.9  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant
           and its officers and directors. Filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the
           Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June
           30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.10 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 401(k) Plus Savings Plan and Trust.
           Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
           10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

 (S) 11.   Statement of computation of net income per outstanding share of
           common stock is hereby incorporated by reference from Appendix A to
           the Company's Notice of 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy
           Statement, copies of which are being delivered to (but not filed
           with, except to the extent incorporated herein) the Commission as an
           exhibit to this report.

 (S) 13.   Appendix A to the Company's Notice of 1998 Annual Meeting of
           Stockholders and Proxy Statement (which contains the annual financial
           statements and financial information of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
           for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997).

 (S) 21.   List of Subsidiaries of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.

 (S) 23.   Consent of Independent Auditors.

 (S) 27.1  Financial Data Schedules.

___________________________________________

(S)   Being filed herewith.

                                    Page 14

 
                                  UNDERTAKINGS

     For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing
Form S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the
undersigned Registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be
incorporated by reference into the Registrant's Registration Statements on Form
S-8 Nos. 33-45914 (filed February 21, 1992) and 333-01317 (filed February 29,
1996):

     Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act
of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the
Registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the Registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable.  In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
Registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling
person of the Registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the Registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
be governed by final adjudication of such issue.


                                    Page 15

 
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                      JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.

Dated:   December 22, 1997            By: NOEL G. WATSON
                                          --------------------------
                                          Noel G. Watson
                                          President, Chief Executive Officer and
                                          Director (Principal Executive Officer)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:



                                    Page 16

