
10-K405
FORM 10-K




================================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark one)
(X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999

                                       OR

( )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


     Commission File Number 1-7463
                         Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                                 95-4081636
     (State of incorporation)          (I.R.S. employer identification number)

            1111 South Arroyo Parkway, Pasadena, California     91105
             (Address of principal executive offices)         (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (626) 578-3500
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of Each Exchange
               Title of Each Class                on Which Registered
               -------------------                -------------------
            Common Stock, $1 par value           New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check-mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  (X) YES     ( ) NO

Indicate by check-mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.  (X)

                              ___________________

The aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting stock held by non-
affiliates was approximately $686,965,700 as of December 16, 1999, based upon
the last reported sales price on the New York Stock Exchange.  For this purpose,
the Registrant considers Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs to be its only affiliate.

As of December 16, 1999, the Registrant had outstanding 26,146,156 shares of its
common stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement issued in connection
with its 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part II and Part III).

================================================================================


                                    PART I

Item 1.   BUSINESS

General
- -------
     Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the "Company") is one of the largest
professional services firms in the United States providing a broad range of
project services; process, scientific and systems consulting services;
operations and maintenance services; and construction services to a broad range
of industrial, commercial and governmental clients.  The Company provides its
services through offices and subsidiaries located in the United States, Europe,
India, Mexico, Chile and Australia.

     The Company focuses its services on selected industry groups and markets
including chemicals and polymers; buildings (which includes projects in the
fields of health care and education, as well as commercial, civic and
governmental buildings); federal programs; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology;
petroleum; infrastructure; technology and manufacturing; and pulp and paper,
among others.

     Over the past several years, the Company has grown its business through
both internal initiatives and strategic mergers and acquisitions. These merger
and acquisition transactions have allowed the Company to (i) expand or enhance
the range of services it provides its clients; (ii) expand its client base; and
(iii) provide access to new geographical areas. Some of the more significant
transactions that have occurred over the past five years include: the Sverdrup
merger; the acquisition of the Serete Group; and the acquisition of CRS Sirrine
and CRSS Constructors.

     In January 1999, the Company completed its merger with the Sverdrup
Corporation ("Sverdrup").  As a result of this transaction, Sverdrup became a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.  Sverdrup provides engineering,
architecture, construction and scientific services for the development, design,
construction and operation of buildings, infrastructure projects and advanced
technical systems for public and private sector clients in the United States and
internationally.  Sverdrup employs more than 5,600 people in offices located
throughout the United States, and in selected countries abroad.  The Sverdrup
transaction expanded the Company's business opportunities in several key
markets, added professional staff, as well as presence in new geographies.  It
also added civil and defense capabilities to the Company's range of professional
services.  The merger has been accounted for as a purchase, and the results of
operations of Sverdrup have been included in the Company's consolidated results
of operations since January 1999.

     In Fiscal 1997, the Company acquired The Serete Group (headquartered in
Paris, France). This acquisition provided the Company with an established
presence in France, Spain and Italy. It added professional staff, and enhanced
the Company's existing engineering capabilities. It also expanded the Company's
client base in several key market groups. Also in Fiscal 1997, the Company
increased its ownership interest (such that the Company became the majority
owner) in Humphreys & Glasgow Consultants Limited (headquartered in Mumbai,
India). This acquisition gave the Company access to the Southern Asia market,
expanded the Company's client base and added professional staff.

     In Fiscal 1994, the Company acquired CRS Sirrine and CRSS Constructors
(whose principal offices are located primarily within the United States).  These
acquisitions greatly expanded the Company's professional staff.  They provided
broad-based skills in the pulp and paper market (which was a new market for the
Company at that time), and enhanced the Company's capabilities for its clients
in both the buildings and high technology manufacturing markets.  These
acquisitions also strengthened the Company's capabilities in the area of
construction management services, expanded the Company's client base, and
provided increased resources in the southeast region of the United States.

                                     Page 1


     In addition to the particular advantages described above, these
acquisitions have allowed the Company to grow its relationships with its major
clients.  By expanding into new geographical areas, and by adding to its
existing technical and project management capabilities, the Company strives to
position itself as a preferred, single-source provider of professional services
to its major clients.

     The Company is a Delaware corporation and was originally incorporated in
1957 as a successor to a business organized by Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs in 1947. The
Company's common stock has been publicly held since 1970 and is currently listed
on the New York Stock Exchange.


Services Provided
- -----------------

     The Company offers four broad categories of professional services:
project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural and other
related services); process, scientific and systems consulting services;
operations and maintenance ("O&M") services; and construction services.  The
Company will often establish a relationship with a client when it is awarded a
contract for the initial phases of an engineering and/or construction project.
These services may include feasibility studies, consulting or design work.
Because of the range of technical expertise the Company possesses, it is often
retained for additional work as the project develops.  The scope of services
provided by the Company, therefore, ranges from consulting to complete single-
responsibility contracts.

     The following table sets forth the total revenues of the Company from
each of its four basic service categories for each of the five years ended
September 30, 1999 (in thousands of dollars):



     Project Services
     ----------------
     The Company employs all of the engineering and related disciplines needed
to engineer and design modern process plants (including projects for clients in
the chemicals and polymers, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, petroleum, food
and consumer products, and the basic resources industries); industrial and
commercial buildings (including facilities in the health care, education and
criminal justice markets, as well as commercial buildings for clients in the
private sector); infrastructure projects (including highways, roads, bridges and
other transportation facilities); technology and manufacturing facilities (for
clients in the semiconductor, electronics, automotive, aerospace and defense
industries); pulp and paper plants; and other facilities. The Company also
employs many of the requisite scientific, technical and program management
capabilities necessary to provide program integration, testing and evaluation
services for clients in the defense and aerospace industries and in support of
environmental programs primarily for agencies of the U.S. federal government.

     Also included in the category of "Project Services" are construction
management services, as well as all of the related support services necessary
for the proper and effective delivery of the Company's engineering and other
home-office services (among these are cost engineering, planning, scheduling,
procurement, estimating, project accounting, and quality and safety).  In the
area of construction management, the Company can provide a wide range of
services as an agent for its clients.  The Company may act as the program
director, whereby it oversees, on behalf of the owner of the project, the
complete planning, design and construction phases of the project, or, its
services may be limited to providing construction consulting.

                                     Page 2


     Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting
     ------------------------------------------
     The Company employs all of the professional and technical expertise
necessary to provide a broad range of consulting services including: performing
pricing studies, market analyses and financial projections necessary in
determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation
modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex
processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing,
designing and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing
process protocols in respect of Federal Drug Administration mandated
qualification/validation requirements; and performing geological and
metallurgical studies.

     Also included in "Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting" are the
professional and program management services required to assist clients
(typically, the U.S. federal government and its agencies) in a wide range of
defense and aerospace related programs.  Such services typically are more
technical and scientific in nature than are other project services provided by
the Company, and may involve such tasks as supporting the development and
testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations;
computer systems maintenance and support; evaluations and testing of mission-
critical control systems; and other, highly technical programs and tasks.

     Operations & Maintenance ("O&M")
     --------------------------------
     O&M activities generally refer to all of the tasks required to operate and
maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients.  In such situations,
the Company provides key management and support services over all of the
facility's operations, including subcontractors and other on-site personnel.
Within the environmental area, O&M activities often include engineering and
technical support services, as well as program management services necessary to
remediate contaminated sites.  Within the aerospace and defense areas, O&M
activities often include providing all of the management and technical support
services to operate and maintain engine test facilities, weapons integration and
high-tech simulation and verification centers.  Such O&M contracts frequently
require the Company to provide facilities management and maintenance services,
utilities operations and maintenance services, property management and
disposition and construction support services.

     Also included in this category are plant maintenance services.  Plant
maintenance services generally include all of the tasks required to keep a plant
(typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation, including the
repair and replacement of pumps, piping, heat exchangers and other equipment.
It also includes "turnaround" work, which involves major refurbishment which can
only be performed when the plant is shut down.  Since shutdowns are expensive to
the owners of the plant, turnaround work will often require maximizing the
number of skilled craft personnel that can work efficiently on a project on a 24
hours per day, seven days per week basis.  The Company employs sophisticated
computer scheduling and programming to complete turnaround projects quickly and
it maintains contact with a large pool of skilled craftsmen it can hire as
needed on maintenance and turnaround projects.

     Although the profit margins that can be realized from O&M services are
generally lower than those associated with the other services the Company
provides, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower
than those associated with the Company's other services.  Furthermore, since O&M
contracts are normally cost-reimbursable in nature, they present less financial
risk to the Company.  Additionally, although engineering and construction
projects may be of a short-term nature, O&M services often result in long-term
relationships with clients.  For example, the Company has been providing
maintenance services at several major process plants for over 30 years.  This
aspect of maintenance services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of
such services.

                                     Page 3


     Construction
     ------------
     The Company provides traditional field construction services to private and
public sector clients in virtually all of the industries to which it provides
project services.  The Company can also provide its clients with Advanced
Construction Technology ("ACT")/(R)/.  ACT is an advanced form of off-site
engineering and design (the revenues for which are included in project
services), fabrication, assembly and field erection.  ACT provides clients with
an alternative approach to traditional methods of engineering and construction,
which can compress and shorten the construction schedule, as well as help to
reduce costs.  In the environmental area, recent contract awards from clients in
the public sector require the Company to provide environmental remedial
construction services.

     Historically, the Company's field construction activities have been focused
primarily on those construction projects for which the Company performed the
related engineering and design work.  By focusing its construction efforts on
such projects, the Company seeks to avoid the risk of constructing complex
plants based on designs prepared by others.  The financial risk to the Company
of constructing complex plants based on designs prepared by third parties may be
particularly significant on fixed-price contracts.

     The Company actively markets all of its services to clients on projects
where the scope of services required is within the Company's fields of
expertise. The Company believes that by integrating and bundling its services
(i.e., providing design, engineering and construction services on the same
project) it can price its services more competitively and can enhance the
overall contract profitability. The Company also believes that clients benefit
from such an approach because they can look to the Company as a single-source
provider of design/build services. However, the Company will continue to pursue
construction-only projects where it can negotiate pricing and other contract
terms acceptable to the Company.

Industry Groups and Markets
- ---------------------------
     The Company focuses its efforts on the following industry groups and
markets: chemicals and polymers; buildings; U.S. federal programs;
pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; petroleum; infrastructure; technology and
manufacturing; and pulp and paper. The Company believes these industry groups
and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of the
Company's resources which help to mitigate the negative effects of a downturn in
a single industry.

     The following table sets forth the total revenues of the Company from each
of these industry groups and markets for each of the five years ended September
30, 1999 (in thousands of dollars):



                                     Page 4


     Chemicals and Polymers
     ----------------------
     The Company has always considered the chemicals industry a cornerstone of
its business. Revenues from this industry group have consistently accounted for
a significant share of each year's total revenues. Historically, whenever the
Company has sought to expand its business, the impact of such expansion on the
Company's chemicals business has always been an important consideration. The
Company's first office outside the United States was opened in support of a
bulk-chemical project for a large, U.S. company seeking to expand its operations
internationally.

     Currently, the Company furnishes its full line of services to its clients
operating in the chemicals industries.  The Company has provided technical,
financial, marketing and business consulting services for many of the largest
chemical manufacturers in the world.  The Company has performed feasibility
studies, as well as preliminary and detailed design and engineering services,
construction, and construction management services for its chemicals industry
clients.  Typical projects range from various basic, intermediate and polymer
chemicals, to low-pressure, multi-product processes for the production of fine
and specialty chemicals.  The Company has also completed projects dealing with
the modernization and upgrading of polyethylene and liquid polymer production
facilities.  The Company has extensive knowledge of, and experience with,
advanced polymerization reactions and state-of-the-art, post-reactor processing
techniques, as well as many other specialty chemicals.

     A significant aspect of the Company's service to this industry is in the
area of contract maintenance. The Company has contracts with several major
chemical producers to provide on-site maintenance and turnaround activities.
Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature and tend to be extended over
many years.

     Another important aspect of our chemicals business has been the development
of performance-based partnering relationships (alliances) with clients. In an
alliance, the Company contracts with the client to perform a broad range of
services, as the client requires. Projects can range from providing on-site
engineering services, to completion of an entire capital improvement program.
Occasionally, a small initial evaluation performed for a client expands to
include fully-integrated engineering, procurement, construction and construction
management services.

     Buildings
     ---------
     Buildings generally refers to the Company's engineering and construction
activities relating to commercial buildings and other specialized structures.

     The Company provides and/or manages comprehensive architectural,
engineering, design, construction, construction management and/or total program
management services for a variety of unique and technically complex buildings
and complexes. Typical projects include major federal building programs, both K-
12 (kindergarten through high school) and higher education facilities, justice,
and health and research facilities, as well as corporate buildings, and other
municipal, civic and institutional facilities. The Company provides its services
on projects that emphasize both new construction as well as those involving
renovation and refurbishment of existing facilities. The Company has also been
successful in applying its skill base to clients requiring complete program
management (referred to as "resourcing"). For such contracts, the Company, often
through joint ventures with third parties, assume full responsibility for the
ongoing operations and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes
on behalf of the client.

                                     Page 5


     Federal Programs
     ----------------
     The Company's Federal Programs can generally be categorized as relating to
either environmental programs, or defense and aerospace programs.

          Environmental
          -------------
     The Company believes it is one of the leading providers of environmental
restoration, engineering and consulting services, including hazardous waste
management and site cleanup and closure in the United States.  Many of the
projects for the U.S. government span several years.  For larger programs, the
scope of services is such that the Company sometimes teams with other companies
in order to execute the project.  The Company's projects within this market
generally relate to the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act ("CERCLA" or "Superfund"), the National Environmental Policy Act
("NEPA") and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA").  The Company
is currently providing environmental restoration, engineering, construction and
site operations and maintenance services for a number of U.S. federal government
agencies including the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE"), the Department of
Defense ("DOD") and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("USEPA").

     The Company provides environmental support such as underground storage tank
(UST) removal, contaminated soil and water remediation, building demolition and
decommissioning, and design, build, installation, operation and maintenance of
various types of soil and groundwater cleanup systems at multiple project
locations across the United States for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the
U.S. Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence.  Typical projects also
include the preparation of feasibility studies and performance of remedial
investigations, engineering, design and remediation services on several national
programs.  In addition to contracts involving the remediation of contaminated
sites, the government has let contracts to private contractors to provide full
operations and maintenance services to entire government facilities.

     Demand for the Company's services in this area is strongly affected by the
level of enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, and the spending
patterns of public and private clients.

          Defense and Aerospace
          ---------------------
     The Company provides a wide range of professional services for a variety of
aerospace facilities and systems, including wind tunnels, turbine and rocket
engine test facilities, and launch facilities, as well as computer-based
simulation and other systems.  The Company also operates and maintains
aerodynamic, propulsion, and space facilities and systems for government clients
at more than a dozen test centers.

     The Company, through its merger with Sverdrup Corporation, has been a
provider of technical services to the DOD for many years, and currently supports
defense programs in more than a dozen locations, both in the U.S. and
internationally. In addition to operating and maintaining several DOD test
centers, the Company's support includes services such as aerodynamic testing of
next-generation fighter aircraft; propulsion testing for space programs; launch
of Titan, Atlas, and Delta rockets and payloads; and support to weapons systems
such as air-to-air missile systems and precision guided, smart weapons used for
various high-value targets. The Company also supports DOD in a number of
information technology programs, including networks, command and control
technology, intelligence, and information warfare.

     The Company also provides technical assistance and program management
support at several NASA facilities. The Company provides O&M services for these
facilities, including support of tests of spacecraft and aeronautical systems;
aerodynamic test facilities and systems; biological and life sciences
experiments; and aircraft for research and development missions. The Company
currently supports several NASA programs ranging from Space Shuttle experiments
to the International Space Station, and from advanced propulsion/transportation
systems to protein crystal growth research needed to develop new drugs and
vaccines.

                                     Page 6


     Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology
     ---------------------------------
     The Company furnishes a full line of services to its clients in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry.  The scope of services the Company
provides its clients in these markets includes master planning, programming,
feasibility studies, engineering, preliminary and detailed design, procurement,
construction, construction management, validation, and maintenance.
Accordingly, the Company is fully capable of executing some of the industry's
largest capital programs on a single-responsibility basis.

     Typical projects for clients in this industry include laboratories,
research and development facilities, vivariums, pilot plants, bulk active
pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full-scale biotechnology
production facilities, and secondary manufacturing facilities. Regulatory
considerations on these projects include current Good Laboratory Practices
("cGLP") and current Good Manufacturing Practices ("cGMP"). In addition, state-
of-the-art technology and know-how are critical to the Company's clients. These
include containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments,
process and building systems automation and off-the-site design and fabrication
of process and building modules.

     As the worldwide market demand for ethical and over-the-counter products
continues to escalate, the pressure increases on the pharmaceutical industry to
decrease product time to market, decrease costs and increase return on
investment.  The Company's role is expanded to deliver capital projects sooner
and more efficiently.  The Company provides local, economical resources in major
pharmaceutical and biotechnology areas, and provides single-point EPCMV
(engineering, procurement, construction, maintenance and validation) project
delivery.  The Company continues to enhance its 3-D CADD design capabilities, as
well as other technological aspects of its engineering and design services, in
order to better serve its clients, and to ensure that projects transition from
their conceptual design phase through and including the construction and
validation phases as economically and efficiently as possible.

     The Company also has established formal alliances with numerous clients in
the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry.

     Petroleum
     ---------
     The Company provides its full line of services to its clients in the
petroleum industry. Typical projects in the petroleum area include retrofits,
revamps or expansions of existing plants, upgrading individual process units
within refineries, new construction and maintenance services. The Company also
provides a broad range of consulting services to its clients, including process
assessments, feasibility studies, technology evaluations and multi-client
studies. Although the Company's revenues historically have related primarily to
projects associated with petroleum refining and the processes and technologies
required for the conversion of crude oil and gas into petroleum fuels, chemical
feedstocks and lubricants, more recent contract awards have also included
services to pipeline companies and companies in businesses upstream of refiners.

     The volume of business activity in this industry group is sometimes
influenced by government regulations. For example, as the government issues
regulations requiring the reduction of the sulfur content of motor fuels,
capital spending by clients for desulfurization projects have increased. There
are also significant levels of economically-driven work associated with
reconfiguring refineries to handle increasing levels of imported, heavy sour
crude feedstocks. The Company is actively involved in both such regualtions- and
economically-driven projects.

     The Company has also utilized its Advanced Construction Technology
capabilities (i.e., modular construction) on a number of projects in the
petroleum industry.  In the U.S. and European refining industries, many projects
involve the revamp of an existing processing unit, or the addition of a new
process to an existing refinery.  As a result of the close proximity of
processing units in these refineries, the Company believes the use of off-site
construction can decrease congestion at the construction site.  The Company also
believes that modular construction can offer cost and project execution benefits
in remote locations.

                                     Page 7


     Like the chemicals industry, the Company provides a significant amount of
maintenance services to its clients in the petroleum industry.  Also like the
chemicals industry, the Company has established a number of formal alliances
with various clients in the petroleum industry.  Some of these alliances have
been national in scope.

     Infrastructure
     --------------
     The Company provides a broad range of planning, design, consulting,
engineering, construction and construction management services to its clients
engaged in civil construction projects throughout the United States, as well as
in selected countries overseas.  Typical projects in this area include
transportation and water resources type projects.  The Company's expertise and
skills-base in civil and infrastructure projects was greatly enhanced in 1999 as
a result of the Sverdrup merger.

     Transportation infrastructure development and rehabilitation have been a
mainstay of Sverdrup's infrastructure business for many years.  By integrating a
broad range of professional disciplines, the Company provides comprehensive
planning, engineering, construction and program management services for
transportation facilities and systems.  Interdisciplinary teams work
independently or as an extension of agency staff on highway, bridge, transit,
tunnel, airport, railroad, intermodal facility, and lock and dam projects.
Representative clients include state departments of transportation and district
agencies, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, branches of the U.S. military and
private industry freight transport firms.

     Fueling the growth in this market is the Transportation Equity Act for the
21st Century (TEA-21).  Providing $218 billion over five years - with
considerable state and local flexibility in project selection - TEA-21 is a
large U.S. federal commitment to improving transportation infrastructure.  The
Company's concept through completion approach provides complete location
selection, condition assessment, environmental analyses, preliminary design,
documentation, final design, detailed construction planning, management, public
involvement, resident engineering and maintenance engineering management
services to agencies seeking to qualify for TEA-21 funding.

     As public sector acceptance of design-build delivery grows, the Company has
won and successfully completed large-scale projects such as Utah's I-15 corridor
reconstruction and CSX Transportation Inc's Midwestern corridor capacity
upgrade.

     The Company's services in the area of water resources have helped public
and private sector clients develop and rehabilitate critical water resource
systems. Integrating water, wastewater, air quality, and hazardous waste
remediation experience provides these clients with the comprehensive expertise
needed to deliver complex projects. The Company provides planning, design,
design-build and program and construction management services to a diverse
market, including: regional wastewater treatment agencies, manufacturers and
power generators, local water suppliers, and military facilities.

     Typical public sector projects include managing multi-project water and
wastewater capital improvement programs, delivering design-build
water/wastewater projects, conducting technology and planning studies, and
managing construction of major water/wastewater infrastructure projects.
Industrial services include planning, design and construction of air quality,
high purity water and industrial wastewater treatment systems.

     State and federal government regulations are important influences in the
environmental market.  New regulations and funding authorizations under the Safe
Drinking Water Act are increasing water suppliers' capital spending levels. The
Company is developing water/wastewater conveyance systems and water resources
management projects as two promising specialty markets.

     Private sector projects may be driven by regulatory or economic factors.
For example, new air and wastewater treatment regulations are increasing capital
project spending in the pharmaceutical and

                                     Page 8


petroleum industries.  The Company may provide planning, design or construction
services as part of a larger industrial expansion program, or as a stand-alone
project.

     The Company believes that opportunities for design-build and construction
management projects are expanding as these project delivery methods gain
acceptance in the public sector.  Recent projects include design-build of three
major water treatment plants for the Orlando Utilities Commission and
construction management of a large water/wastewater treatment complex for the
city of Scottsdale, Arizona.

     Technology and Manufacturing
     ----------------------------
     The Company provides a broad range of project services for a variety of
technology, manufacturing and test facilities.

     Included in this category are projects involving highly complex test
facilities for clients in the aerospace and automotive industries.  Typical
projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete
design/build programs of wind tunnels and engine test facilities; propulsion and
certification test facilities; powertrain and other automotive component parts
test facilities; environmental and emissions test facilities; climatic test
facilities; and computer-based measurement and control systems.

     Also included in this category are projects for clients operating in the
semiconductor industry.  The Company provides engineering, procurement,
construction, and construction management services to its clients in this
industry.  Typical projects in this industry range from on-site plant
engineering and tool hook-ups, to multi-million dollar state-of-the-art wafer
fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce microprocessors for
computers and other consumer electronic devices.  Generally, projects in the
semiconductor industry are very complex; requiring a greater emphasis on
cleanroom, and similar high-end technologies.

     Pulp and Paper
     --------------
     The Company provides a broad range of engineering and construction services
to its clients in the pulp and paper industry. Typical projects in the pulp and
paper area range from small mill projects to complex, multi-million dollar paper
machine rebuilds, mill expansions and construction of new facilities. Currently,
the Company is performing the single largest engineering, procurement and
construction paper machine installation project in the United States for a
national newsprint producer.

     Pulp and paper projects can and frequently encompass all areas of a mill,
including woodyards, pulping and bleaching, papermaking, chemical recovery,
material handling and power and steam generation.  In the area of papermaking,
the Company's expertise includes tissue and towel, coated and uncoated fine
papers, newsprint and linerboard.  The Company's expertise also includes the
converting and packaging of paper products for consumer use.  The Company has
been instrumental in the design and installation of state-of-the-art facilities
for recycle fiber, deinking and pulp bleaching.  Chemical recovery and power
generation are an integral part of the papermaking process.  The Company has
broad experience in these areas and has applied its expertise in the engineering
and construction of such facilities for the pulp and paper industry.

     Additionally, the Company provides strategic planning and conceptual
studies for many of its clients, as well as environmental services relating to
compliance with USEPA emission standards. As an example, the Company is
currently providing detail design and consulting services to International Paper
for its environmentally-driven Cluster Rule related work at three of their
mills.

     Like certain other markets, the Company has established formal alliances
with various clients in the pulp and paper industry. Such alliances have allowed
the Company to expand the services it provides its clients, while improving the
overall quality and consistency of the engineering and construction services
such clients receive.

                                     Page 9


     Other
     -----
     Included in "Other" are projects that cannot be classified into any of the
other industry and market categories.  This would include projects for clients
in the food and consumer products industries, as well as basic resources
(mining, minerals and fertilizers).

Backlog
- -------
     For information regarding the Company's backlog, reference should be made
to Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, incorporated by reference in this report.

Customers
- ---------
     For the years ended September 30, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, revenues
directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government accounted
for 11.4%, 8.7%, 12.0%, 12.1% and 17.4%, respectively, of total revenues.  Due
to the amount of pass-through costs (see "Contracts" below) that may be incurred
on construction and maintenance projects, it is not unusual for a client in the
private sector to account for more than 10% of revenues in any given year.  One
client in the private sector accounted for 13.1% of total revenues in 1995.  A
different client accounted for 15.3% of total revenues in 1997.  No single
client in the private sector accounted for 10% or more of total revenues in
1996, 1998 or 1999.

Foreign Operations
- ------------------
     For the years ended September 30, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, revenues
from the Company's international operations were approximately 5.4%, 10.3%,
23.5%, 20.2% and 15.8%, respectively, of total revenues.  For fiscal years 1995
and 1996, substantially all such revenues related to the Company's offices in
the U.K. and Ireland.  In 1997, as discussed above, the Company completed the
acquisitions of the Serete Group and HGC India.  The Serete Group has operations
throughout Europe, and executes projects for commercial clients in the
chemicals, pharmaceuticals and semiconductor industries, as well as buildings
and infrastructure projects for both commercial and governmental clients.  HGC
India has operations in India and executes projects for commercial clients in
the chemical, pharmaceuticals and petroleum markets.  Revenues earned in fiscal
1997, 1998 and 1999 from the Company's offices in Mexico and Chile were not
material.

Contracts
- ---------
     While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the
contracts undertaken by the Company, they can generally be grouped into three
broad categories:  Cost-reimbursable; fixed-price and guaranteed maximum price.
The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by
these types of contracts during each of the five fiscal years ended September
30, 1999:



     In accordance with industry practice, most of the Company's contracts are
subject to termination at the discretion of the client.  Contracts typically
provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through
the date of such termination.

      When the Company is directly responsible for engineering, design,
procurement and construction of a project or the maintenance of a process plant,
the Company reflects the cost of materials, equipment

                                    Page 10


and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client
elects to pay for such items directly, these amounts are not reflected in either
revenues or costs. The following table presents the approximate amount of such
pass-through costs included in revenues for each of the five fiscal years ended
September 30, 1999 (in millions):



     Cost-reimbursable contracts
     ---------------------------
     Cost-reimbursable contracts provide for reimbursement of costs incurred by
the Company plus a predetermined fee, or a fee based on a percentage of the
costs incurred. The Company prefers this type of contract since it believes that
the primary basis for its selection should be its technical expertise and
professional qualifications rather than price considerations.

     Fixed-price contracts
     ---------------------
     Fixed-price contracts include both "negotiated fixed-price" contracts and
"lump sum bid" contracts. Under a negotiated fixed-price contract, the Company
is first selected as the contractor, and then the contract price is negotiated.
Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility
arrangements where the Company has the opportunity to perform engineering and
design work before negotiating the total price of the project. Under lump sum
bid contracts, the Company must bid against other contractors based upon
specifications furnished by the client. This type of pricing presents certain
inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications,
problems with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur
over the contract period, that are reduced by the negotiation process. Thus,
although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump
sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to the Company. However,
because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both
negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit
potential than the other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of
the Company's fixed price work have been either negotiated fixed-price
contracts, or lump-sum bid contracts for services (rather than turn-key
construction).

     Guaranteed maximum price contracts
     ----------------------------------
     Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as
cost-reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot
exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client.  If the total actual
cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then the Company will
bear all or a portion of the excess.  In those cases where the total actual cost
and fee are less than the guaranteed price, the Company will often share the
savings on a predetermined basis with the client.

Competition
- -----------
     The Company is engaged in a highly competitive business.  Some of its
competitors are larger than the Company, or are subsidiaries of larger
companies, and may possess greater resources than the Company.  Furthermore,
because the engineering and technical support aspects of the business does not
usually require large amounts of capital, there is relative ease of market entry
for a new potential entrant possessing acceptable professional qualifications.
Accordingly, the Company competes with both national and international firms in
sizes ranging from very large to a wide variety of small, regional and specialty
firms.

    The extent of the Company's competition varies according to the industries
and markets it serves, as well as the geographical areas in which the Company
operates. The Company's largest competitors for engineering, construction and
maintenance services for process plants include such well-known companies as
Bechtel Group, Inc., Fluor Corporation, Foster-Wheeler Corp., Raytheon
Engineers, M.W. Kellogg, Parsons Co., Kellogg Brown & Root, and Kvaerner. In the
area of buildings, the Company's competitors include several of the competitors
previously mentioned, as well as HDR, Inc., Hellmuth,

                                    Page 11


Obata & Kassabaum, AeCOM Technology and Day & Zimmermann.  In the area of civil
engineering and construction, the Company's competitors include several of the
competitors previously mentioned, as well as Parsons Brinckerhoof and HNTB.  In
the area of pulp and paper, the Company's principal competitors include BE&K,
Kellogg Brown & Root, and Raytheon Engineers.  And in the area of U.S. federal
programs, the Company's principal competitors include several of the companies
listed above, as well as AlliedSignal, BDM, Morrison Knudsen Corporation, and
other specialized companies such as IT Group, Inc., ICF Kaiser and Roy F.
Weston.

Employees
- ---------
     At September 30, 1999, the Company had approximately 15,900 full-time
employees.  Additionally, as of September 30, 1999, there were approximately
7,300 persons employed by the Company in the field on a project basis.  The
number of such field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the
maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time.

                                    Page 12


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     Pursuant to the requirements of Item 401(b) and 401(e) of Regulation S-K,
the following information is being furnished with respect to the Company's
executive officers:


     All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective
capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of
Messrs. Beumer, Uselton and Schwartz, have served in executive capacities with
the Company or have been part of its management for more than five years.  Prior
to joining the Company in 1999, Messrs. Beumer, Uselton and Schwartz were part
of the senior management group of Sverdrup Corporation, or one of its
subsidiaries, for at least five years.

                                    Page 13


Item 2.   PROPERTIES

     The Company owns and leases offices for its professional, technical and
administrative staff. It also owns property (located in Charleston, South
Carolina) which is the principal manufacturing facility for the Company's
modular construction activities. The total amount of space used by the Company
for all its operations is approximately 2.8 million square feet. The following
is a representative list of the Company's principal locations:



                                  [continued]

                                    Page 14


Item 2.   PROPERTIES - Continued



     In addition to these properties, the Company leases smaller, project
offices located throughout the United States and in certain other countries
around the world.  The Company maintains sales offices at many of its principal
locations.  The Company has equipment yards located in Houston, Texas and Baton
Rouge, Louisiana.  The majority of the Company's offices are leased.  The
Company also rents a portion of its construction equipment on a short-term
basis.

                                    Page 15


Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to certain
contractual guarantees and litigation.  Generally, such guarantees relate to
project schedules and plant performance.  Most of the litigation involves the
Company as a defendant in workers' compensation, personal injury and other
similar lawsuits.  In addition, as a contractor for many agencies of the United
States Government, the Company is subject to many levels of audits,
investigations and claims by, or on behalf of, the government with respect to
its contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations and procurement
practices.

     Management believes, after consultation with counsel, that such guarantees,
litigation, and United States Government contract-related audits, investigations
and claims should not have any material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

     In March 1998, the U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California
announced that it was intervening in a lawsuit filed against the Company by a
former employee under the False Claims Act (the "Act"). The lawsuit alleges that
the Company overbilled the U.S. government for lease costs paid by the Company
and relating to its former headquarters building located in Pasadena,
California. The building had once been owned by the Company, but was sold by it
in calendar 1982, at which time the Company entered into a 15-year lease of the
property. The lawsuit seeks damages of approximately $17.0 million against the
Company, which, if a violation of the Act is found, would be trebled. Additional
remedies available to the government include possible administrative or civil
liabilities, and, if a violation of the Act is found, the imposition of civil
penalties for each billing. Although the number of billings is contested, civil
penalties, if imposed, would be at least $10.0 million.

     The Company has denied any wrongdoing in the method it used to account for
the lease costs in question and has denied that it acted with the intent
required for liability under the Act. The Company contends that all of the facts
regarding its 1982 sale and leaseback were disclosed to the government, which
repeatedly approved the Company's lease charges after conducting annual audits.

     In November 1999, the court made rulings, which the Company is challenging,
that limit the Company's defenses in this matter. The rulings also included
dismissal of the whistleblower from the case, and the government is proceeding
on its own. The final outcome of this matter cannot be determined at the present
time. Trial is set for late January 2000. The Company intends to continue to
vigorously defend itself against the lawsuit.

Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.

                                    Page 16


                                    PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the
Company's fiscal year.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the
Company's fiscal year.

Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the
Company's fiscal year.

Item 7A.  QUALITATIVE and QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Not applicable.


Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the
Company's fiscal year.


Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL AND
          DISCLOSURE MATTERS

     Not applicable.

                                    Page 17


                                   PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information required by Paragraph (a) and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of
Item 401 and by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

     See the information under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company"
in Part I of this report for information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401
of Regulation S-K.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

                                    Page 18


                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The Company's consolidated financial statements at September 30,
          1999 and 1998 and for each of the three years in the period ended
          September 30, 1999, together with the report of the independent
          auditors on those consolidated financial statements are hereby
          incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 to this report.

     (b)  Not applicable.

     (c)  Exhibits and Index to Exhibits:

          2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger Among Sverdrup Corporation, Jacobs
               Engineering Group Inc., and Jacobs Acquisition Corp, dated as of
               December 21, 1998.  Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant's
               Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 14, 1999 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          3.1  Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended.
               Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
               10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein
               by reference.

      (S) 3.2  Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended.

          4.1  See Sections 5 through 18 of Exhibit 3.1.

          4.2  See Article II, Section 3.03 of Article III, Article VI and
               Section 8.04 of Article VIII of Exhibit 3.2.

          4.3  Rights Agreement dated as of December 20, 1990 by and between
               Registrant and First Interstate Bank, Ltd. as Rights Agent.
               Filed as Exhibit 4.4 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
               Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

         10.1  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1981 Executive Incentive Plan
               (as Amended and Restated).  Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

     (S) 10.2  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Incentive Bonus Plan for
               Officers and Key Managers.

         10.3  Agreement dated as of November 30, 1993 between the Registrant
               and Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs.  Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

     (S) 10.4  Agreement dated as of December 2, 1999 between the
               Registrant and Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs.

         10.5  The Executive Security Program of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
               Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated
               herein by reference.

         10.6  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Subsidiaries 1991 Executive
               Deferral Plan, effective June 1, 1991.  Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
               the Registrant's Quarterly Report

                                    Page 19


               on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1995 and incorporated
               herein by reference.

         10.7  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Subsidiaries 1993 Executive
               Deferral Plan, effective December 1, 1993. Filed as Exhibit 10.6
               to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
               ended March 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.8  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase
               Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Registration
               Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-72977) filed with the
               Commission on February 26, 1999 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

         10.9  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the
               Registrant and its officers and directors.  Filed as Exhibit
               10.10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
               period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.10 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 401(k) Plus Savings Plan and
               Trust.  Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1995 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

         11.   Statement of computation of net income per outstanding share of
               common stock is hereby incorporated by reference from Appendix A
               to the Registrant's Notice of 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
               and Proxy Statement, copies of which are being delivered to (but
               not filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) the
               Commission as an exhibit to this report.

     (S) 13.   Appendix A to the Registrant's Notice of 2000 Annual Meeting of
               Shareholders and Proxy Statement (which contains the annual
               financial statements and financial information of Jacobs
               Engineering Group Inc. for the fiscal year ended September 30,
               1999).

     (S) 21.   List of Subsidiaries of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.

     (S) 23.   Consent of Independent Auditors.

     (S) 27.1  Financial Data Schedule.

___________________________________________

     (S)  Being filed herewith.

                                    Page 20


                                 UNDERTAKINGS

     For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing
Form S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the
undersigned Registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be
incorporated by reference into the Registrant's Registration Statements on Form
S-8 Nos. 333-45475 (filed with the Commission on February 3, 1998) and 333-72977
(filed with the Commission on February 26, 1999):

     Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act
of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the
Registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the Registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
Registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling
person of the Registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the Registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
be governed by final adjudication of such issue.

                                    Page 21


                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.

Dated:   December 2, 1999              By:  /s/  NOEL G. WATSON
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                 Noel G. Watson
                                                 President, Chief Executive
                                                 Officer and Director
                                                 (Principal Executive Officer)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:



                                    Page 22


                            SIGNATURES - Continued


                                    Senior Vice President
                                  Finance and Administration,
                                    and Treasurer (Principal
/s/  JOHN W. PROSSER, JR.               Financial Officer)      December 2, 1999
- -----------------------------
     John W. Prosser, Jr.

                                    Senior Vice President and
                                      Controller (Principal
/s/  NAZIM G. THAWERBHOY               Accounting Officer)      December 2, 1999
- -----------------------------
     Nazim G. Thawerbhoy

                                    Page 23

