
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED 09/30/95



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark one)
(X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

    For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995


                                       OR


( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]


    For the transition period from ______________________ to ___________________
    Commission File Number 1-7463


                         Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
 
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                    95-4081636
    (State of incorporation)            (I.R.S. employer identification number)
 
251 South Lake Avenue, Pasadena, California                91101
 (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (818) 449-2171
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                                   Name of Each Exchange
       Title of Each Class                          on Which Registered
       -------------------                          -------------------
     Common Stock, $1 par value                   New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check-mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  (X) YES     ( ) NO

Indicate by check-mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.  (X)

                              ___________________

The aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting stock held by non-
affiliates was approximately $498,658,700 as of December 26, 1995, based upon
the last reported sales price on the New York Stock Exchange. For this purpose,
the Registrant considers Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs to be its only affiliate.

As of December 26, 1995, the Registrant had outstanding 25,507,521 shares of its
common stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Part II:  Annual Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995, only
portions of which are incorporated by reference.

Part III:  Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of
the Registrant's fiscal year, only portions of which are incorporated by
reference.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

General
- -------
    Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the "Company") is one of the largest
professional service firms in the United States providing engineering, design
and consulting services; construction and construction management services; and
process plant maintenance services to a broad range of industrial, commercial
and governmental clients throughout the United States, the United Kingdom and
Ireland. Additionally, the Company owns a 40% interest in an engineering and 
design firm headquartered in Bombay, India.

    The Company focuses its services on selected industry groups and markets
including chemical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology; petroleum refining;
semiconductor; federal programs; pulp and paper; and buildings and
infrastructure (this includes transportation and health care projects,
commercial and governmental buildings, and other industrial projects).

    The Company is a Delaware corporation and was originally incorporated
in 1957 as a successor to a business organized by Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs in 1947.
The Company's common stock has been publicly held since 1970 and currently is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

Recent acquisitions
- -------------------
    In July 1994, the Company acquired the engineering and construction
management services businesses from CRSS Inc. (the engineering business is
referred to as "Sirrine" and the construction management business is referred to
as "CRSS Constructors"). These businesses provide comprehensive design,
engineering and construction management services to government and commercial
customers in the pulp and paper, semiconductor, and buildings and infrastructure
markets, among others, primarily within the continental United States.

Services provided
- -----------------
    The Company offers three broad categories of professional services:
engineering (which includes design, consulting and other related services);
construction and construction management; and plant maintenance.  The Company
will often establish a relationship with a client where it is awarded a contract
for the initial phases of an engineering and/or construction project.  These
services may include feasibility studies, consulting or design work.  Because of
the range of technical expertise the Company possesses, it is often retained for
additional work as the project develops.  The scope of services provided by the
Company, therefore, ranges from consulting to complete single-responsibility
contracts.

    The following table sets forth the total revenues of the Company from
each of its three basic service categories for the five years ended September
30, 1995 (in thousands of dollars):


    Engineering
    -----------
    The Company employs all of the engineering and related disciplines to
engineer and design modern process plants (including projects for clients in the
chemicals, pharmaceutical and biotechnology, refining, food, and minerals and
fertilizers industries), semiconductor facilities, pulp and paper plants, and
other facilities (such as high technology manufacturing operations and other
specialized plants).

    In the environmental area, the Company employs all of the requisite
engineering, scientific, public health and related skills to consult,
investigate, study, manage and provide remedial engineering for major
environmental programs.  The Company's capabilities in process engineering and
construction combined with its environmental expertise allow it to offer its
clients a wide range of services as a single-

                                     Page 1

 
source provider. Accordingly, the Company has been awarded contracts requiring a
combination of traditional process engineering and environmental services.

    The Company also employs all of the professional and technical expertise
necessary to provide a broad range of consulting services including:  performing
pricing studies, market analyses and financial projections necessary in
determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation
modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex
processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing,
designing and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing
process protocols in respect of Federal Drug Administration mandated
qualification/validation requirements; and performing geological and
metallurgical studies.

    Also included in the category of "Engineering" are all of the related
support services necessary for the proper and effective delivery of the
Company's engineering and related services. Among these are cost engineering,
planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, project accounting, quality and
safety.

    Construction
    ------------
    The Company provides traditional field construction as well as construction
management services to private and public sector clients in virtually all of the
industries to which it provides engineering services. The Company can also
provide its clients with Advanced Construction Technology ("ACT")(R). ACT is an
advanced form of off-site engineering, design, fabrication and assembly, and
field erection. ACT provides clients with an alternative approach to traditional
methods of engineering and construction which can significantly reduce new plant
costs. In the environmental area, recent contract awards from clients in the
public sector require the Company to provide environmental remedial construction
services.

    The Company's field construction activities are focused primarily on those
construction projects for which the Company has performed the engineering and
design work.  By focusing its construction efforts on such projects, the Company
avoids the risk of constructing complex plants based on designs prepared by
others.  The financial risk to the Company of constructing complex plants based
on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed-
price contracts.

    The Company actively markets all of its services to clients on projects
where the scope of services required is within the Company's fields of
expertise. The Company believes that by integrating and bundling its services
(i.e., providing design, engineering and construction services on the same
project) it can price its services more competitively and can enhance the
overall contract profitability. The Company also believes that clients benefit
from such an approach because they can look to the Company as a single-source
provider of design/build services. However, the Company will continue to pursue
construction-only projects where it can negotiate pricing and other contract
terms acceptable to the Company.

    In the area of construction management, the Company can provide a wide range
of services to its customers. The Company may act as the program director,
whereby it oversees, on behalf of the owner of the project, the complete
planning, design and construction phases of the project. Or, its services may be
limited to providing construction consulting, estimating, scheduling or value
engineering services. The Company's capabilities in the area of construction
management were greatly enhanced during 1994 when it completed the acquisition
of CRSS Constructors. As a result of that acquisition, the Company broadened its
geographic presence and expanded both its client base and the industry groups to
which it can provide and market its construction management services.

    Maintenance
    -----------
    Maintenance generally refers to all of the tasks required to keep a plant in
day-to-day operations, including the repair and replacement of pumps, piping,
heat exchangers and other equipment.  It also includes "turnaround" work which
involves major refurbishment which can only be performed when the plant is shut
down.  Since shutdowns are expensive to the owners of the plant, turnaround work
will often require maximizing the number of craftsmen that can work efficiently
on a project on a 24 hours per day,

                                     Page 2

 
seven days per week basis. The Company employs sophisticated computer scheduling
and programming to complete turnaround projects quickly and it maintains contact
with a large pool of skilled craftsmen it can hire as needed on maintenance and
turnaround projects.

    Although the profit margins that can be realized from maintenance services
are generally lower than those associated with the other services the Company
provides, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower
than those associated with the Company's other services. Furthermore, since
maintenance contracts are normally cost-reimbursable in nature, they present
less risk to the Company. Additionally, although engineering and construction
projects may be of a short-term nature, maintenance services often result in
long-term relationships with clients. For example, the Company has been
providing maintenance services at several major process plants for over 30
years. This aspect of maintenance services greatly reduces the selling costs in
respect of such services.

Industry groups and markets
- ---------------------------
    The Company has chosen to focus its efforts on the following industry groups
and markets: chemical and pharmaceutical (which includes biotechnology);
refining; semiconductor; environmental; facilities; and pulp and paper.  The
Company believes these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs
to permit cross-utilization of the Company's resources which help to mitigate
the negative effects of a downturn in a single industry.

    The following table sets forth the total revenues of the Company from each
of these industry groups and markets for the five years ended September 30, 1995
(in thousands of dollars):


    In the area of federal programs, the Company historically has provided
 primarily engineering services. However, certain of the more recent contracts
 awarded to the Company also include construction and project management
 services for the remediation of hazardous wastes. Maintenance services are
 provided primarily to the chemical and refining industries.

    Chemical and pharmaceutical
    ---------------------------
    The Company furnishes its full line of services to its clients operating in
the chemical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Typical projects in
the chemical area include bulk chemical production facilities involving various
petrochemicals, aromatics and derivatives, monomers and polymers. In the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology area, typical projects include sterile fill,
pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities and biotechnology laboratories and pilot
plants. Also included in this category of business are process projects for
clients in the food industry. Over the past several years, the Company has
expanded this area of its business through acquisitions and internal growth.

    The scope of services the Company can provide its clients in these markets
include feasibility studies, preliminary and detailed design and engineering
services, construction, and construction management services. The Company can
also provide conceptual design services with emphasis on production strategy,
current good manufacturing practices ("cGMP") compliance, regulatory compliance
and qualification/validation services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology
research, development and production facilities. Accordingly, the Company is
fully capable of executing multi-million dollar, single-responsibility projects
in the areas of pharmaceuticals and biotechnology.

                                     Page 3

 
    Refining
    --------
    The Company provides its full line of services to its clients in the
petroleum refining industry. Typical projects in the refining area include
retrofits, revamps or expansion of existing plants, upgrading individual process
units within refineries, new construction and maintenance services. The Company
also provides a broad range of consulting services to its clients, including
feasibility and multi-client studies.

    Over the past several years, many of the Company's contract awards in the
refining area have been for plants producing oxygenates and other high-octane
fuel blending components for gasoline (such components are required by the Clean
Air Act of 1990 in reformulated gasolines in order to reduce the emissions of
unburned hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide from automobiles), as well as plants
that hydrotreat various fuel fractions to reduce the sulfur content of blended
products.  The Company has completed several major projects to design, engineer,
procure and construct methyl tertiary butyl ether ("MTBE") units and tertiary
amyl butyl ether ("TAME") units for a number of major refiners at facilities
located throughout the United States.  The Company has also utilized its off-
site construction capabilities in the construction and installation of these
units.  The use of off-site construction can help decongest the construction
site and allow for parallel construction to proceed simultaneously with the
modular activity.

    A significant aspect of the Company's service to this industry is in the
area of contract maintenance. The Company has contracts with several major oil
refiners for on-site maintenance and turnaround activities. Many of these
contracts are evergreen in nature and tend to be extended over many years.

    Over the past several years, the Company has broadened this area of its
business through internal growth and acquisitions. One acquisition completed in
1993 expanded the Company's geographic presence to include the West Coast
refining market; the acquisition also added to its client base.

    Semiconductor
    -------------
    The Company provides engineering, procurement, construction, and
construction management services to its clients in the semiconductor industry.
Typical projects in this industry include multi-million dollar state-of-the-art
wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce microprocessors
for computers and other consumer electronic devices. Generally, projects in the
semiconductor industry are more complex than other facilities projects and have
greater emphasis on cleanroom, and similar high-end technology.

    The Company's capabilities in the semiconductor business were significantly
enhanced in 1994 when it completed the acquisition of Sirrine.  As a result of
that acquisition, the Company added to its U.S. domestic engineering and design
capabilities, as well as broadened its client base.  Furthermore, the Company's
traditional skills in the areas of construction and construction management
augmented Sirrine's traditional engineering and design capabilities in this
market.

    Federal programs
    ----------------
    The Company believes it is one of the leading providers in the United States
of environmental engineering and consulting services, including hazardous waste
management and cleanup.  The environmental business currently represents an
important part of the Company's operations and, as a result of growing public
concern over the nation's environment, combined with increased legislative
pressure to move more rapidly towards actual site cleanup, the Company believes
demand for environmental services will continue to grow, particularly in the
areas of compliance and site remediation.

    The Company is currently providing environmental services for a number of 
U.S. federal government agencies including the Department of Energy; the
Department of Defense; and the Environmental Protection Agency. In the private
sector, the Company provides consulting, environmental studies, remedial design
and project management services, such as the design and

                                     Page 4

 
construction of waste minimization programs relating to existing process plants,
and the design and construction of waste and wastewater treatment facilities.

    Typical projects for the U.S. government include the preparation of
feasibility studies and performing remedial investigation, engineering, design
and remediation services on several national programs.  Many of the Company's
contracts relate to the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA" or "Superfund") and the related Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 ("SARA"), as reauthorized in 1990.
More recently, the Company has been awarded multi-year contracts from the U.S.
Air Force to provide full-service remedial action services for the U.S. Air
Force Center for Environmental Excellence ("AFCEE") at several bases located in
the U.S., as well as a "nationwide" award to provide services under the U.S.
Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC") program.  And in 1995, the Company was
awarded the Alaska TERC (Total Environmental Restoration Contract).  The Alaska
TERC is a multi-year program to provide engineering and site cleanup services
throughout that state.  The Company also provides project management services
over site cleanup activities at various government installations, as well as
detailed scientific and support services, groundwater restoration management and
action plans, and services relating to the decommissioning of nuclear production
and armament facilities.

    Many of the projects for the U.S. government span several years.  For larger
programs, the scope of services are such that the Company sometimes teams with
other companies in order to execute the project.

    Buildings and infrastructure
    ----------------------------
    Buildings and infrastructure refers to those contracts requiring the Company
to provide comprehensive architectural, engineering, design, construction and/or
construction management services for projects such as high technology
manufacturing operations, specialized plants for clients in the food industry,
research and development facilities that require technically complex structures,
civic centers, correctional facilities, health care facilities and
transportation systems, as well as multi-purpose buildings for industrial,
commercial and government clients.

    The Company's capabilities in the facilities area were greatly enhanced in
1994 when it completed the acquisition of CRSS Constructors.  As a result of
that acquisition, the Company broadened its geographic presence and expanded
both its client base and the industry groups to which it can provide and market
its construction management services.

    Pulp and Paper
    --------------
    The Company's capabilities in the area of pulp and paper result from its
acquisition of Sirrine in July 1994.

    The Company provides a broad range of engineering and construction services
to its clients in the pulp and paper industry. Additionally, the Company
provides strategic planning and conceptual studies for many of its clients, as
well as environmental services relating to compliance with EPA emission
standards. Typical projects in the pulp and paper area range from small mill
projects to complex, multi-million dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill
expansions and construction of new facilities. Such projects encompass all areas
of a mill, including woodyards, pulping and bleaching, papermaking, chemical
recovery, material handling and power and steam generation. In the area of
papermaking, the Company's expertise includes tissue and towel, coated and
uncoated fine papers, newsprint and linerboard. The Company's expertise also
includes the converting and packaging of paper products for consumer use. The
Company has been instrumental in the design and installation of state-of-the-art
facilities for recycle fiber, deinking and pulp bleaching. Chemical recovery and
power generation are an integral part of the papermaking process. The Company
has broad experience in these areas and has applied its expertise in the
engineering and construction of such facilities for the pulp and paper industry.

    Although a substantial portion of the Company's pulp and paper revenues in
1995 were derived from engineering, procurement and construction management
services, the Company is actively pursuing the expansion of its services to
include construction services.

                                     Page 5

 
Backlog
- -------
    For information regarding the Company's backlog, reference should be made to
Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, incorporated by reference in this report.

Customers
- ---------
    For the years ended September 30, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995, revenues
from federal government agencies accounted for 6.3%, 9.4%, 14.1%, 15.4% and
11.4%, respectively, of total revenues.  Due to the amount of pass-through costs
(see "Contracts" below) that may be incurred on construction projects, it is not
unusual for a customer in the private sector to account for more than ten
percent of revenues in any given year.  For the years ended September 30, 1991
and 1992, one customer in the private sector accounted for 11.4% and 12.5%,
respectively, of total revenues (a second customer accounted for 10.8% of total
revenues in 1992), and a different customer accounted for 11.6% and 13.1% of
total revenues in 1994 and 1995, respectively. No single customer in the private
sector accounted for ten percent or more of total revenues in 1993.

Foreign operations
- ------------------
    For the years ended September 30, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995, revenues
from projects outside of North America were approximately 8.4%, 16.3%, 10.8%,
5.6% and 5.4%, respectively, of total revenues.  For the years ended September
30, 1992 and prior, substantially all such revenues related to the Company's
offices in Ireland.  Beginning with the year ended September 30, 1993, such
revenues related primarily to the Company's offices in the UK and Ireland.

    The increase in revenues from projects outside North America from 1991 to
1992 was due primarily to a large construction project executed out of the
Company's Dublin office and included a substantial portion of pass-through
costs. That project was completed early in fiscal 1993.

    The Company also has operations in India through its 40% interest in an 
engineering and design firm specializing in projects for clients in the 
chemical, pharmaceuticals and petroleum refining markets. The Company has 
executed contracts jointly with the Indian company, and expects to expand this 
activity in the future. The Company accounts for the Indian company using the 
equity method.

Contracts
- ---------
    While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the
contracts undertaken by the Company, they can generally be grouped into three
broad categories: Cost-plus; guaranteed maximum price and fixed-price.  The
following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by
these types of contracts during the five years ended September 30, 1994:


    In accordance with industry practice, most of the Company's contracts are
subject to termination at the discretion of the client.  Contracts typically
provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through
the date of such termination.

    When the Company is directly responsible for engineering, design,
procurement and construction of a project or the maintenance of a process plant,
the Company reflects the cost of materials, equipment and subcontracts in both
revenues and costs.  On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such
items directly, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs.
The approximate amounts of such costs included in revenues for the years ended
September 30, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 were $641.9 million, $659.2
million, $610.7 million, $629.0 million and $1,001.3 million, respectively.

    Cost-plus contracts
    -------------------
    Cost-plus contracts provide for reimbursement of costs incurred by the
Company plus a predetermined fee, or a fee based on a percentage of the costs
incurred.  The Company prefers this type of contract since it believes that the
primary basis for its selection should be its technical expertise and
professional qualifications rather than price considerations.

                                     Page 6

 
    Guaranteed maximum price contracts
    ----------------------------------
    Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as
cost-plus contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot exceed
the guaranteed price negotiated with the customer.  If the total actual cost of
the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then the Company will bear
all or a portion of the excess.  In those cases where the total actual cost and
fee are less than the guaranteed price, the Company will often share the savings
on a predetermined basis with the client.

    Fixed-price contracts
    ---------------------
    Fixed-price contracts include both "negotiated fixed-price" contracts and
"lump sum bid" contracts.  Under a negotiated fixed-price contract, the Company
is first selected as the contractor, and then the contract price is negotiated.
Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility
arrangements where the Company has the opportunity to perform engineering and
design work before negotiating the total price of the project.  Under lump sum
bid contracts, the Company must bid against other contractors based upon
specifications furnished by the customer.  This type of pricing presents certain
inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications,
problems with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur
over the contract period, that are reduced by the negotiation process.  Thus,
although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the customer, the lump
sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to the Company.  However,
because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both
negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit
potential than the other types of contracts.

Competition
- -----------
    The Company is engaged in a highly competitive business.  Some of its
competitors are larger than the Company, or are subsidiaries of larger
companies, and may possess greater resources than the Company.  Furthermore,
because the engineering aspect of the business does not usually require large
amounts of capital, there is relative ease of market entry for a new potential
entrant possessing acceptable professional qualifications.  Accordingly, the
Company competes with both national and international firms in sizes ranging
from very large to a wide variety of small, regional and specialty firms.

    The extent of the Company's competition varies according to the industries
and markets it serves, as well as the regions in which the Company is located.
The Company's largest competitors for engineering, construction and maintenance
services for process plants include such well-known companies as Bechtel Group,
Inc., Fluor Corporation, Foster-Wheeler Corp., Raytheon Engineers, M.W. Kellogg,
Parsons Co., Brown & Root, Inc., and John Brown. In the semiconductor industry,
the Company's principal competitor is Industrial Design Corporation. In the area
of pulp and paper, the Company's principal competitors include Fluor, BE&K,
Brown & Root, and Rust International. In the area of environmental engineering
and hazardous waste cleanup, the Company's principal competitors include many of
the companies listed above, as well as Morrison Knudsen Corp., and other
specialized companies such as IT Corporation, ICF Kaiser and Roy F. Weston, Inc.
The Company's principal competitors for buildings and infrastructure work also
include many of the companies listed above, as well as Turner Construction Co.
and The Austin Co.

Employees
- ---------
    At September 30, 1995, the Company had approximately 7,600 full-time
employees.  Additionally, as of September 30, 1995, there were also
approximately 6,900 persons employed by the Company in the field on a project
basis.  The number of such field employees varies in relation to the number and
size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular
time.

                                     Page 7

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

    Pursuant to the requirements of Item 401(b) and 401(e) of Regulation S-K,
the following information is being furnished with respect to the Company's
executive officers:


    All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective
capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of
Messrs. Christopher and Martin, have served in executive capacities with the
Company or have been part of its management for more than five years.  Prior to
joining the Company in 1994, Messrs. Christopher and Martin were part of the
management of CRSS Inc. or one of its subsidiaries for at least five years.

                                     Page 8

 
Item 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company owns and leases offices for its professional, technical and
administrative staff totalling approximately 1.7 million square feet. The
following is a list of the Company's principal locations:



    In addition to these properties, the Company leases smaller, project
offices located throughout the United States.  The Company maintains sales
offices at many of its principal locations.  The Company has equipment yards
located in Houston, Texas and Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  The majority of the
Company's offices are leased.  The Company also rents a portion of its
construction equipment on a short-term basis.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to certain
contractual guarantees and litigation.  Generally, such guarantees relate to
construction schedules and plant performance.  Most of the litigation involves
the Company as a defendant in workers' compensation, personal injury and other
similar lawsuits.  Management believes, after consultation with counsel, that
these guarantees and litigation should not have any material adverse effect on
the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.

                                     Page 9

 
                                    PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Financial Statements section of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders, copies of which financial statements section is being delivered to
the Commission (but not filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) as
an Exhibit to this report.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Financial Statements section of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders, copies of which are being delivered to the Commission (but not
filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) as an Exhibit to this
report.

Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Financial Statements section of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders, copies of which are being delivered to the Commission (but not
filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) as an Exhibit to this
report.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Financial Statements section of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders, copies of which are being delivered to the Commission (but not
filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) as an Exhibit to this
report.

Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL AND
         DISCLOSURE MATTERS

    Not applicable.

                                   PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information required by Paragraph (a) and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of
Item 401 and by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

    See the information under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company" in
Part I of this report for information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of
Regulation S-K.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

                                    Page 10

 
Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Company's
fiscal year.

                                    Page 11

 
                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The Company's consolidated financial statements at September 30, 1995
          and 1994 and for each of the three years in the period ended September
          30, 1995, together with the report of the independent auditors on
          those consolidated financial statements are hereby incorporated by
          reference from the Financial Statements section of the Company's 1995
          Annual Report to Shareholders, copies of which are being delivered to
          (but not filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) the
          Commission as an exhibit to this report.  See accompanying Index to
          Financial Statements and Supporting Schedules.

     (b)  Not applicable.

     (c)  Exhibits and Index to Exhibits:

          2.1  Purchase Agreement dated July 29, 1994 between Jacobs Engineering
               Group Inc. and CRSS Inc. including a schedule of annexes and
               exhibits.  Filed as Exhibit 1. to the Registrant's Current Report
               on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

          3.1  Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended.
               Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
               10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein
               by reference.

          3.2  Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended.  Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
               the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
               ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.1  See Sections 5 through 18 of Exhibit 3.1.

          4.2  See Article II, Section 3.03 of Article III, Article VI and
               Section 8.04 of Article VIII of Exhibit 3.2.

          4.3  Rights Agreement dated as of December 20, 1990 by and between
               Registrant and First Interstate Bank, Ltd. as Rights Agent.
               Filed as Exhibit 4.4 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
               Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

         10.1  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1981 Executive Incentive Plan
               (As Amended and Restated).  Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.2  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Incentive Bonus Plan for
               Officers and Key Managers.  Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
               June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.3  Agreement dated as of November 30, 1993 between the Registrant
               and Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs, and the Agreement dated as of November
               30, 1994 between the Registrant and Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs.  Filed
               as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
               for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

     (S) 10.4  Agreement dated as of November 30, 1995 between the Registrant
               and Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs.

                                    Page 12

 
         10.5  The Executive Security Program of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
               Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated
               herein by reference.

         10.6  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Subsidiaries 1991 Executive
               Deferral Plan, effective June 1, 1991.  Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
               the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
               ended March 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.7  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Subsidiaries 1993 Executive
               Deferral Plan, effective December 1, 1993. Filed as Exhibit 10.6
               to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
               ended March 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.8  The Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase
               Plan.  Filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report
               on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated
               herein by reference.

         10.9  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the
               Registrant and its officers and directors.  Filed as Exhibit
               10.10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
               period ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.10 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 401(k) Plus Savings Plan and
               Trust.  Filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1995 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

     (S) 11.   Statement of computation of net income per outstanding share
               of common stock is hereby incorporated by reference from the
               Financial Statements section of the Company's 1995 Annual Report
               to Shareholders, copies of which are being delivered to (but not
               filed with, except to the extent incorporated herein) the
               Commission as an exhibit to this report.

     (S) 13.   Financial Statements section of Jacobs Engineering Group
               Inc. Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
               September 30, 1995.

     (S) 21.   List of Subsidiaries of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.

     (S) 23.   Consent of Independent Auditors.

     (S) 27.1  Financial Data Schedules.

___________________________________________

     (S)   Being filed herewith.

                                    Page 13

 
                                  UNDERTAKINGS

    For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing
Form S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the
undersigned Registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be
incorporated by reference into the Registrant's Registration Statements on Form
S-8 Nos. 33-45914 (filed February 21, 1992) and 33-45927 (filed February 24,
1992):

    Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act
of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the
Registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the Registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
Registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling
person of the Registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the Registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
be governed by final adjudication of such issue.

                                    Page 14

 
                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                   JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC.

Dated:   December 27, 1995             By:            NOEL G. WATSON
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                      Noel G. Watson
                                          President, Chief Executive Officer and
                                          Director (Principal Executive Officer)

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


                                    Page 15

