10-K


v96770e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED 12-31-03

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

[NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003

OR

[  ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

[NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . .

Commission File Number 1-8957

ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

91-1292054

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

19300 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, Washington 98188

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (206) 392-5040

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [  ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes [X] No [  ]

As of December 31, 2003, shares of common stock outstanding totaled 26,761,940.
The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock of Alaska Air Group,
Inc. held by nonaffiliates on December 31, 2003, 26,693,527 shares, was
approximately $573 million (based on the closing price of those shares, $21.45,
on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2003, the last business day of the
registrant’s most recently completed second quarter).

DOCUMENTS TO BE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Title of Document

Part Hereof Into Which Document is to be Incorporated

Definitive Proxy Statement Relating to

2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

Part III

ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003


Cautionary Note regarding Forward-Looking Statements

In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements are those
that predict or describe future events or trends and that do not relate solely
to historical matters. You can generally identify forward-looking statements as
statements containing the words “believe,” “expect,” “will,” “anticipate,”
“intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “assume” or other similar expressions,
although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words.
All statements in this report regarding our future strategy, future operations,
projected financial position, estimated future revenues, projected costs,
future prospects, and results that might be obtained by pursuing management’s
current plans and objectives are forward-looking statements. You should not
place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements because the matters they
describe are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other
unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our
forward-looking statements are based on the information currently available to
us and speak only as of the date on which this report was filed with the SEC.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to issue any updates or revisions to our
forward-looking statements, even if subsequent events cause our expectations to
change regarding the matters discussed in those statements. Over time, our
actual results, performance or achievements will likely differ from the
anticipated results, performance or achievements that are expressed or implied
by our forward-looking statements, and such differences might be significant
and materially adverse to our stockholders. Many important factors that could
cause such a difference are described in this Annual Report under the caption
“Business – Business Risks,” which you should review carefully. Please
consider our forward-looking statements in light of those risks as you read
this report.



PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

GENERAL INFORMATION

Alaska Air Group, Inc. (Air Group or the Company) is a holding company that was
incorporated in Delaware in 1985. Its two principal subsidiaries are Alaska
Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries, Inc. (Horizon). Both
subsidiaries operate as airlines, although their business plans, competition,
and economic risks differ substantially. Alaska is a major airline, operates
an all-jet fleet, and its average passenger trip length is 967 miles. Horizon
is a regional airline, operates jet and turboprop aircraft, and its average
passenger trip is 332 miles. Individual financial information for Alaska and
Horizon is reported in Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Air Group’s executive offices are located at 19300 Pacific Highway South,
Seattle, Washington, 98188. Air Group’s filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports are accessible free of charge at www.alaskaair.com. The information
contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. As
used in this Form 10-K, the terms “Air Group,” “our,” “we” and the “Company”
refer to Alaska Air Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
indicates otherwise.

Alaska

Alaska Airlines, Inc. is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and
incorporated in 1937. Alaska principally serves 39 cities in six western
states (Alaska, Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada, and Arizona) and Canada
and 7 cities in Mexico. Alaska also provides non-stop service between Seattle
and five eastern cities (Washington, D.C., Boston, Miami, Orlando, and
Newark), between Seattle and Denver, and between Anchorage and Chicago. In
each year since 1973, Alaska has carried more passengers between Alaska and the
U.S. mainland than any other airline. In 2003, Alaska carried 15.0 million
revenue passengers. Passenger traffic within Alaska and between Alaska and the
U.S. mainland accounted for 21% of Alaska’s 2003 revenue passenger miles, West
Coast traffic (including Canada) accounted for 57%, the Mexico markets
accounted for 10% and other markets accounted for 12%. Based on passenger
enplanements, Alaska’s leading airports are Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles, and
Anchorage. Based on 2003 revenues, its leading nonstop routes are
Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles, and Seattle-San Diego. At December 31,
2003, Alaska’s operating fleet consisted of 109 jet aircraft.

Horizon

Horizon Air Industries, Inc., a Washington corporation that first began service
in 1981, was incorporated in 1982 and was acquired by Air Group in 1986. It is
the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest, and serves 39 cities in
six states (Washington, Oregon, Montana, Idaho, California and Arizona) and six
cities in Canada. In 2003, Horizon carried 4.9 million revenue passengers.
Based on passenger enplanements, Horizon’s leading airports are Seattle,
Portland, Boise, and Spokane. Based on revenues in 2003, its leading nonstop
routes are Seattle-Portland, Seattle-Spokane, Seattle-Boise and
Seattle-Vancouver. At December 31, 2003, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted
of 18 jet and 44 turboprop aircraft, with the jets providing 46% of the 2003
capacity. Horizon flights are listed under the Alaska Airlines designator code
in airline computer reservation systems. Additionally, effective January 1,
2004, Horizon began operating regional jet service branded as Frontier
JetExpress under a 12-year agreement with Frontier Airlines.



Alaska and Horizon coordinate their flight schedules to provide service between
any two points served by their systems. In 2003, 31% of Horizon’s passengers
connected to flights operated by Alaska compared to 29% in 2002. Both airlines
distinguish themselves from competitors by providing a higher level of customer
service in the form of attention to customer needs, advance seat assignments,
expedited check-in, well-maintained aircraft, a first-class section aboard
Alaska aircraft, and other amenities.

Industry Conditions

The airline industry is both seasonal and cyclical. Our operating income is
generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters, gradually increases in
the second quarter and reaches its highest level during the third quarter. Our
industry has been negatively impacted by weak economic conditions in 2001
through the first half of 2003, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and
continued hostilities in the Middle East. Economic conditions in the second
half of 2003 improved slightly, resulting in strong summer demand and higher
than expected fourth quarter traffic. However, industry demand levels, as
measured by passenger traffic, have not returned to pre- 2001 levels.

Due to the industry’s high fixed costs in relation to revenue, a small change
in load factors or fare levels has a large impact on profits. For most
airlines, including Alaska and Horizon, labor and fuel account for almost half
of operating expenses. Our wage and benefit costs increased 11% in 2001, 8% in
2002 and 9% in 2003. Fuel prices have been volatile in the last three years.
Our fuel cost per gallon decreased 14% and 10% in 2001 and 2002, respectively,
and increased 14% during 2003.

As discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, in April
2003, the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the Act) was
signed into legislation. The Act includes $2.3 billion of one-time cash
payments to air carriers, allocated based on each carrier’s share of security
fees remitted and carrier fees paid to the Transportation Security
Administration (TSA) since its inception in February 2002. Additionally,
passenger security fees were not imposed by the TSA and carrier fees were not
paid during the period June 1, 2003 through September 30, 2003. In May 2003,
we received our share of the one-time cash grant in the amount of $71.4 million
($52.8 million for Alaska and $18.6 million for Horizon).

On September 11, 2001, the United States was attacked by terrorists using
hijacked jets of two U.S. airlines. The FAA shut down all commercial airline
flight operations for September 11 and 12. Airlines resumed flight operations
at reduced levels on September 13. Throughout the industry, airlines have
recently instituted a variety of cost-saving measures including renegotiation
of collective bargaining agreements, scaling back the receipt of planned
airplane deliveries and renegotiation of vendor agreements. At several
airlines and related entities, credit rating agencies have downgraded long-term
credit ratings, including that of Alaska Air Group, Inc.



MARKETING AND COMPETITION

Alliances with Other Airlines

Alaska and Horizon have marketing alliances with other airlines that provide
reciprocal frequent flyer mileage accrual and redemption privileges and code
sharing on certain flights as set forth below. Alliances enhance Alaska’s and
Horizon’s revenues by offering our customers more travel destinations and
better mileage accrual/redemption opportunities, gaining us access to more
connecting traffic from other airlines, and providing members of our alliance
partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and
Horizon while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs. Alaska’s and
Horizon’s marketing agreements have various termination dates and at any time,
one or more may be in the process of renegotiation. If a significant agreement
were terminated, it could adversely impact revenues and increase the costs of
our other marketing agreements. Most of our code share relationships are
free-sell code shares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating
carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no
inventory risk. The table below identifies our marketing alliances with other
airlines as of December 31, 2003.

Code sharing

Code sharing

Frequent

Alaska Flight #

Other Airline Flight #

Flyer

on Flights Operated

On Flights Operated

Agreement

by Other Airline

by Alaska/Horizon

Major U.S. or

International Airlines

American Airlines/American Eagle

Yes

Yes

No

British Airways

Yes

No

No

Cathay Pacific Airways

Yes

No

No

Continental Airlines

Yes

Yes

Yes

Frontier Airlines**

No

No

Yes

Hawaiian Airlines

Yes

Yes

Yes

KLM

Yes

No

Yes

Lan Chile

Yes

No

Yes

Northwest Airlines

Yes

Yes

Yes

Qantas

Yes

No

Yes

Commuter Airlines

Era Aviation

Yes*

Yes

No

PenAir

Yes*

Yes

No

Big Sky Airlines

Yes*

Yes

No

Helijet International

Yes*

Yes

No

* This airline does not have its own frequent flyer program. However, Alaska’s
Mileage Plan members can accrue and redeem miles on this airline’s route
system.

** Capacity purchase arrangement as described under “Business – General
Information – Horizon.”

Competition

Competition in the airline industry is intense. We believe the principal
competitive factors in the industry are:

•

safety record and reputation;

•

fares;

•

customer service;

•

routes served;



Any domestic air carrier issued a certificate of public convenience and
necessity by the Department of Transportation is allowed to operate scheduled
passenger service in the United States. Together, Alaska and Horizon carry
approximately 3.1% of all U.S. domestic passenger traffic. Alaska and Horizon
compete with one or more domestic or foreign airlines on most of their routes.
Some of these competitors are substantially larger than Alaska and Horizon,
have greater financial resources, and have more extensive route systems. Due
to its shorthaul markets, Horizon also competes with ground transportation,
including train, bus and automobile transportation.

Most major U.S. carriers have developed, independently or in partnership with
others, large global distribution systems. Airlines, including Alaska and
Horizon, are charged fees to have their flight schedules included in the
various computer reservation systems used by travel agencies and airlines.
These systems have historically been the predominant means of distributing
airline tickets and have been subject to regulation by the Department of
Transportation. Air carriers are increasingly distributing their services on
the Internet through various airline joint venture or independent websites. We
currently participate in a number of these distribution channels, but we cannot
predict the terms on which we may be able to continue to participate in these
or other sites, or their effect on our ability to compete with other airlines.

REGULATION

General

The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic
economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, the
Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
still exercise regulatory authority over air carriers. In order to provide
passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S., a domestic airline is
required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by
the Department of Transportation. Subject to certain individual airport
capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier
to operate between any two points in the U.S. A certificate is of unlimited
duration, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation
statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificate itself. In
addition, the Department of Transportation maintains jurisdiction over the
approval of international code share agreements, alliance agreements between
domestic major airlines, international route authorities and certain consumer
protection matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and
baggage liability.

The FAA regulates aircraft operations generally, including establishing
personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards. Domestic airlines are
required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA.
Pursuant to these regulations, we have established, and the FAA has approved, a
maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate that provides for the



ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections
to major overhauls. In addition, the FAA has issued a number of directives
that we are incorporating into
our aircraft. These relate to, among other things, enhanced ground proximity
warning systems, cockpit door security enhancements, McDonnell Douglas MD-80
insulation blanket replacement, MD-80 main landing gear piston improvements and
Boeing 737 rudder and elevator improvements. Based on our current
implementation schedule, we are or expect to be in compliance with the
applicable requirements within the required time periods.

The Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The
U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation
of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation
industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National
Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between
airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective
bargaining agreements. To the extent we continue to pursue alliances with
international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign
agencies.

In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the Security
Act) was enacted. The Security Act created a new government agency, the
Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is now part of the
Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The
Security Act mandates that the TSA shall provide for the screening of all
passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked
baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft.
The TSA performs these functions with its own federal employees. On December
31, 2002, the TSA began explosive detection screening of all checked baggage

.

The TSA also provides for increased security on flight decks of aircraft and
requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights.

Effective February 1, 2002, the Security Act imposed a $2.50 per enplanement
security service fee (maximum $5.00 one-way fee) which is collected by the air
carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security
measures. Additionally, to the extent the TSA determines that such fee is
insufficient to pay for the cost of providing the security measures as
mentioned in the previous paragraph, in each of the years 2002, 2003 and 2004,
air carriers may be required to submit to the government an amount equal to the
amount the air carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000.
After that, this fee may be assessed based on the air carrier’s market share.
In 2002, the TSA began assessing payments under this feature of the Security
Act. We paid $9.9 million and $8.4 million to the TSA for this security
charge in 2002 and 2003, respectively. Effective June 1, 2003, Congress
suspended the security fee until September 30, 2003, and authorized a partial
refund of security fees that the airlines paid before that time.

In addition, the Security Act requires air carriers to honor tickets, on a
standby basis, from other air carriers that are insolvent or bankrupt and
suspend service within 18 months of the passage of the Security Act. This
deadline was extended to April 30, 2004. To be eligible, a passenger must make
arrangements with the air carrier within 60 days after the date on which the
passenger’s air transportation was suspended. To date, this provision has not
had a substantial impact on our airlines. If a major U.S. air carrier were to
declare bankruptcy and cease or suspend operations, this feature of the
Security Act could have an impact on our airlines. To the extent we are not
fully



reimbursed for the costs of honoring such tickets, the impact could be
materially adverse.

The Department of Transportation, under its authority to prevent unfair
competitive practices in
the industry, has considered the issuance of pricing and capacity rules that
would limit major air carriers’ competitive response to new entrant carriers.
Although the Department of Transportation as recently as 2001 declined to issue
specific competitive guidelines, it reiterated its intent to prevent what it
considers to be unfair competitive practices in the industry, and to pursue
enforcement actions on a case-by-case basis. To the extent that future
Department of Transportation enforcement actions either directly or indirectly
impose restrictions upon our ability to respond to competitors, our business
may be adversely impacted. Conversely, a relaxation in either unfair
competition enforcement or restrictions could limit our ability to enter new
markets or harm our operating results for markets that we have recently
entered.

Airline Fares

Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without
governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by vigorous price
competition. The Department of Transportation maintains authority over
international (generally outside of North America) fares, rates and charges.
International fares and rates are also subject to the jurisdiction of the
governments of the foreign countries we serve. While air carriers are required
to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial
commissions, overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers
characterize many international markets.

Legislation, sometimes referred to as the “Passengers’ Bill of Rights,” has
been discussed in Congress and state legislatures. This legislation could, if
enacted, place various limitations on airline fares and/or affect operating
practices such as baggage handling and overbooking. Effective December 15,
1999, we, as well as other domestic airlines, implemented a Customer Service
Plan to address a number of service goals, including, but not limited to goals
relating to:

In February 2001, the Department of Transportation Inspector General issued a
report on the various air carriers’ performance of their Customer Service
Plans. The report included a number of recommendations which could limit our
flexibility with respect to various operational practices. In February 2001, a
bill proposing an “Airline Customer Service Improvement Act” was introduced in
the U.S. Senate. In addition, other items of legislation have been introduced
that



would limit hub concentration, reallocate slots at certain airports and
impose higher landing fees at certain hours. To the extent legislation is
enacted that would inhibit our flexibility with respect to fares, our revenue
management system, our operations or other aspects of our customer service
operations, our financial results could be adversely affected.

Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on our
financial results because we are generally required to match competitors’ fares
to maintain passenger traffic. During recent years, a number of new low-cost
airlines have entered the domestic market and several major airlines, including
Alaska and Horizon, implemented efforts to lower their cost structures. Further
fare reductions, domestic and international, may occur in the future. If fare
reductions are not offset by increases in passenger traffic, cost reductions or
changes in the mix of traffic that improves yields, our operating results will
be negatively impacted.

In February 2004, Alaska initiated a fare rationalization plan whereby a number
of restrictions were eliminated and the gap between the highest and lowest
fares was reduced. The goal of this initiative is to increase customer value
and simplify the customer’s purchase decision.

Airport Access

Heavily used airports may have restrictions with respect to the number of
permitted take-offs and landings, the total permitted annual seat capacity to
be operated at an airport, the use or allocation of airport slots, or other
restrictions. We currently have sufficient authorizations to operate our
existing flights and have generally been able to obtain gates to expand our
operations and change our schedules. However, we cannot assure you that we
will be able to obtain authorizations for these purposes in the future, or be
able to do so on economical terms.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning
environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other
countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on us include the
Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water
Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, or Superfund Act. We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, known as OSHA, concerning employee safety and
health matters. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, OSHA, and
other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have
an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various
states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal
statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and
employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to
federal requirements. We maintain our own continuing safety, health and
environmental programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators
with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they
do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the
national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have
promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of
nighttime curfews. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act generally requires FAA



approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While we have had sufficient
scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date,
our operations could be adversely affected if such regulations become more
restrictive or widespread.

Although we do not currently anticipate that these regulatory matters,
individually or
collectively, will have a material impact on our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows, we cannot assure you that new regulations or
compliance issues that we do not currently anticipate will not harm our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.

EMPLOYEES

The airline business is labor intensive. Alaska and Horizon had 10,996 and
3,742, respectively, active full-time and part-time employees at December 31,
2003. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 38% of our total
operating expenses in 2003.

At December 31, 2003, labor unions represented 84% of Alaska’s and 43% of
Horizon’s employees. Our relations with such labor organizations are governed
by the Railway Labor Act. Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements
between Air Group and these organizations do not expire but instead become
amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of
any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner described in
the agreement. After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct
negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the
National Mediation Board to appoint a federal mediator. If no agreement is
reached in mediation, the National Mediation Board may declare at some time
that an impasse exists, at which point the National Mediation Board proffers
binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to
arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling
off” period commences. During that period, a Presidential Emergency Board may
be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a
solution. The Presidential Emergency Board process lasts for 30 days and is
followed by a “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off”
period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the
labor organization may strike and the airline may resort to “self-help”,
including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the
hiring of workers to replace strikers.

A number of Alaska’s collective bargaining agreements contain provisions for
interest arbitration. Under interest arbitration, if the parties have not
negotiated the contract by a predetermined date, each side may submit a limited
number of issues to binding arbitration. The arbitrator’s decision on those
open points then becomes part of the collective bargaining agreement, and no
strike or company self-help will occur. The union contract with the Alaska
pilots, among others, contains an interest arbitration provision. Alaska is
currently in negotiations with the Association of Flight Attendants and the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Union,
representing its ramp service and stock clerks. Additionally, Alaska is in
negotiations with the Air Line Pilots Association International outside of the
normal contractual cycle. A final decision on interest arbitration, if it
occurs, would be made by April 30, 2005.



Alaska’s union contracts at December 31, 2003 were as follows:

Number of

Union

Employee Group

Employees

Contract Status

Air Line Pilots

Association International

Pilots

1,479

In Negotiations*

Amendable 5/1/05

Association of
Flight Attendants (AFA)

Flight attendants

2,145

In Negotiations

International
Association of
Machinists and
Aerospace Workers

Ramp service
and stock clerks
Clerical, office and
passenger service

1,257

2,951

In Negotiations

Amendable 3/31/04

Aircraft Mechanics

Fraternal Association (AMFA)

Mechanics, inspectors
and cleaners

1,270

Amendable 12/25/04

Mexico Workers
Association
of Air Transport

Mexico airport

personnel


Amendable 9/29/06

Transport Workers

Dispatchers


Amendable 6/30/07*

Union of America (TWU)

* Collective bargaining agreement contains interest arbitration provision.

Horizon’s union contracts at December 31, 2003 were as follows:

Number of

Union

Employee Group

Employees

Contract Status

International Brotherhood
of Teamsters (IBT)

Pilots


Amendable 9/12/06

AFA

Flight attendants


Amendable 11/21/07

AMFA

Mechanics and
related classifications


In Negotiations

TWU

Dispatchers


Amendable 9/11/05

National Automobile,
Aerospace, Transportation
and General Workers

Station personnel
in Vancouver and
Victoria, BC, Canada


In Negotiations

FUEL

Our operations are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet
fuel. Fuel costs were 14.5% of our total operating expenses in 2003 and 13.1%
in 2002. Fuel prices, which can be volatile and which are outside of our
control, can have a significant impact on our operating results. Currently, a
one-cent change in the fuel price per gallon affects annual fuel costs by
approximately $3.9 million. We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft
helps to mitigate the



effect of high fuel prices. We also purchase fuel hedge contracts to reduce
our exposure to fluctuations in the price of jet fuel. Due to the competitive
nature of the airline industry, in the event of continuing increases in the
price of jet fuel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on
increased fuel prices to our customers by increasing our fares. Conversely,
any potential benefit of lower fuel prices may be offset by increased fare
competition and lower revenues.

While we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel
availability, dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the possibility of
changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and
marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel.
In the event of significant hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing
areas, there could be reductions in the production and/or importation of crude
oil. If there were major reductions in the availability of jet fuel, our
business would be adversely affected. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of
our fuel hedging activities.

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM

All major airlines have developed frequent flyer programs as a way of
increasing passenger loyalty. Alaska’s Mileage Plan allows members to earn
mileage by flying on Alaska, Horizon and other participating airlines, and by
using the services of non-airline partners, which include a credit card
partner, telephone companies, hotels, and car rental agencies. Alaska is paid
by non-airline partners for the miles it credits to member accounts. With
advance notice, Alaska has the ability to change the Mileage Plan terms,
conditions, partners, mileage credits, and award levels.

Mileage can be redeemed for free or discounted travel and for other travel
industry awards. Upon accumulating the necessary mileage, members notify
Alaska of their award selection. Over 75% of the free flight awards on Alaska
and Horizon are subject to blackout dates and capacity-controlled seating.
Mileage Plan accounts may be deleted after three years of inactivity in that
member’s account. As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, Alaska estimated that
2,067,000 and 2,353,000, respectively, round-trip flight awards were eligible
for redemption by Mileage Plan members who have mileage credits exceeding the
20,000-mile free round-trip domestic ticket award threshold. Of those eligible
awards, Alaska estimated that 1,931,000 and 2,073,000, respectively, would
ultimately be redeemed. For the years 2001, 2002 and 2003, approximately
310,000, 441,000, and 606,000 round-trip flight awards were redeemed and flown
on Alaska and Horizon. Those awards represent approximately 5.2% for 2001,
6.8% for 2002 and 8.7% for 2003 of the total passenger miles flown for each
period. For the years 2001, 2002 and 2003, approximately 154,000, 174,000 and
174,000, respectively, round-trip flight awards were redeemed and flown on
airline partners.

For miles earned by flying on Alaska and travel partners, the estimated
incremental cost of providing free travel awards is recognized as a selling
expense and accrued as a liability as miles are accumulated. The incremental
cost does not include a contribution to overhead, aircraft cost, or profit.
Alaska also sells mileage credits to non-airline partners, such as hotels, car
rental agencies, and a credit card company. Alaska defers a majority of the
sales proceeds, and recognizes these proceeds as revenue when the award
transportation is provided on Alaska or other airline. The deferred proceeds
are recognized as passenger revenue for awards issued on



Alaska and as other
revenue-net for awards issued on other airlines. At December 31, 2002 and
2003, the deferred revenue and the total liability for providing free travel on
Alaska and for estimated payments to partner airlines was $303.0 million and
$336.0 million, respectively.

OTHER INFORMATION

Seasonality and Other Factors

Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative
of those for the entire year, because the air transportation business is
subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our business is somewhat seasonal. Our
operating income is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters,
generally increases in the second quarter and reaches its highest level during
the third quarter.

The airline industry is characterized generally by low profit margins and high
fixed costs, primarily for personnel, aircraft fuel, debt service and rent. The
expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of
passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of
passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s
operating and financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall in expected
revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact on our
operating results. In addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause
our quarterly operating results to vary include:

•

the timing and success of our growth plan as we
increase flights in existing markets and enter new markets,

•

changes in fuel, security and insurance costs,

•

increases in personnel, marketing, aircraft ownership
and other operating expenses to support our anticipated growth,
and

•

the timing and amount of maintenance expenditures.

In addition, seasonal variations in traffic, various expenditures and weather
affect our operating results from quarter to quarter. We tend to experience the
highest levels of traffic and revenue during the third quarter of each year.
Given our high proportion of fixed costs, seasonality can affect our
profitability from quarter to quarter. Many of our areas of operations
experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs
associated with deicing aircraft, canceled flights and accommodating displaced
passengers. Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more
susceptible to adverse weather conditions than some of our competitors, who may
be better able to spread weather-related risks over larger route systems.

The results of operations in the air transportation business have also
significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic
conditions. In addition, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor
actions and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern.

No material part of our business or that of our subsidiaries is dependent upon
a single customer or very few customers. Consequently, the loss of our largest
few customers would not have a materially adverse effect upon our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Insurance

We carry insurance for passenger liability, property damage and hull insurance
for damage to
our aircraft, in amounts that, in the opinion of management, are adequate.

As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers have
significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to
commercial air carriers for third-party liability for claims resulting from
acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, they significantly
increased the premiums for such coverage as well as for aviation insurance in
general.

Pursuant to authority granted in the Air Transportation Safety and System
Stabilization Act, the Homeland Security Act of 2002, and the Emergency Wartime
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2003, the Government has offered, and we
have accepted, war risk insurance to replace commercial war risk insurance
through August 31, 2004.

Other Government Matters

We have elected to participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program, whereby
we have agreed to make available to the federal government a certain number of
aircraft in the event of a military call-up. The government would reimburse us
for the use of such aircraft.

BUSINESS RISKS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various uncertainties, such
as global and industry instability, intense competition, volatile fuel prices,
a largely unionized labor force, the need to finance large capital
expenditures, government regulation, potential aircraft incidents and general
economic conditions.

The airline industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid environmental
change. We may be unable to compete effectively against other airlines with
greater financial resources or lower operating costs, or to adjust rapidly
enough in the event the basis of competition in our markets changes.

The airline industry is highly competitive as to fares, flight frequency,
frequent flyer benefits, routes and service. The industry is particularly
susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to
provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. We currently
compete with one or more other airlines on substantially all of our routes.
Many of these airlines are larger and have significantly greater financial
resources and name recognition or lower operating costs than our company. Some
of these competitors have chosen from time to time to add service, reduce their
fares, or both, in our markets. We may be unable to compete effectively against
other airlines that introduce service or discounted fares in the markets that
we serve.

Our strategy is to focus on serving a few key markets, including Seattle,
Portland, Los Angeles and Anchorage. Significant portions of our flights occur
to and from our Seattle hub. In 2003, this traffic to and from Seattle
accounted for 62% of 2003 traffic. We believe that concentrating our service
offerings in this way allows us to maximize our investment in personnel,
aircraft and ground operations, as well as to gain greater advantage from sales
and marketing efforts in these



regions. As a result, we remain highly dependent
upon our key markets. Our business would be harmed by any circumstances causing
a reduction in demand for air transportation in our key markets, such as
adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of a
key market and significant price increases linked to increases in airport
access costs and fees imposed on passengers. An increase in competition in our
key markets could also cause us to reduce fares or take other competitive
measures that harm our operating results.

Many airlines, including ours, have marketing alliances with other airlines.
Among other things, they share the use of two-letter flight designator codes to
identify their flights and fares in the computerized reservation systems and
permit reciprocity in their frequent flyer programs. Internet distribution
arrangements either in conjunction with other airlines or with independent
travel websites are also becoming an important means for selling airline
travel. Any consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline
industry, or our loss of key alliance or distribution relationships, could
result in our competitors having access to increased route networks and
resources, which, in turn, would increase the risks of competition described
above.

The airline industry, particularly the regional airlines, also faces
competition from ground transportation alternatives, such as the bus, train or
automobile. Video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic
communication may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as
business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel.

Weakness in the general economy, and in the airline industry in particular,
could have an adverse effect on our business.

We believe that airline traffic, including business traffic, is particularly
sensitive to changes in economic growth and expectations. Weak economic growth
contributed to the airline industry suffering significant losses in 2001, 2002
and the first half of 2003. During 2002, both US Airways and United Airlines
filed for bankruptcy. Because airlines operating under bankruptcy protection
receive increased flexibility to reduce their costs by voiding contracts and
renegotiating existing business obligations, current and future airline
bankruptcies could have a substantial impact on industry competition. In the
event airlines who have received bankruptcy protection choose to apply some or
all of the cost savings they obtain toward reduced fares, bankruptcy by
airlines who compete with us may cause us to reduce our fares and result in a
substantial reduction in revenue and operating margin. Continued weakness in
the airline industry may also result in additional industry consolidation,
greater reliance on industry alliances, such as code sharing and frequent flyer
reciprocity arrangements, and increased price competition among existing
carriers, each of which could dramatically alter the competitive environment in
the markets we serve and harm our operating results. Continued weak economic
performance in the airline industry may also result in a further reduction in
our credit rating and make it more difficult for us to raise capital on
economical terms. Any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a
result of a soft economy would harm our business.

We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of
these systems could harm our business.

We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our
computerized airline



reservation system, our telecommunication systems and our
website. We also issue a substantial number of our tickets to passengers as
electronic tickets. We depend on our computerized reservation system to be able
to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. In order for our
operations to work efficiently, our website and reservation system must be able
to accommodate
a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information. Substantial
or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures
could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to
purchase tickets from another airline. Any disruption in these systems could
result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm
our business.

The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks negatively impacted our industry and
our business and further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other
hostilities involving the U.S., may significantly harm our industry and our
business in the future.

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath have negatively
impacted the airline industry, including our company. Since a substantial
portion of airline travel, for both business and leisure, is discretionary,
further terrorist activity connected with air travel, or the threat of further
terrorist activity, could result in travelers canceling or deferring their
plans for air travel and have a material adverse effect on our revenues. In
the fourth quarter of 2001, the temporary shutdown of domestic passenger air
travel and reduced demand for air travel led Alaska to reduce its flight
schedule by approximately 13% and Horizon to reduce its flight schedule by
approximately 20%. Because a substantial portion of our costs are fixed in the
short term, however, we were unable to offset the reduction in customer demand
through cost savings, and operating results were harmed to a proportionately
greater degree. Additional terrorist attacks, the fear of such attacks or
other hostilities involving the U.S. could have a further significant negative
impact on the airline industry, including us, and could:

If we are unable to meet our cost reduction goals, our results of operations
and financial condition may suffer.

We, along with other airlines, have announced aggressive cost reduction goals
that are an important part of our business strategy. The aim of these cost
reduction initiatives is to improve our profitability without requiring a
substantial increase in current fares and to better position us to be able to
grow our business and take advantage of market opportunities. We believe that
we have already implemented initiatives that will reduce our annual operating
costs by approximately $80 million and plan on achieving approximately $230
million in additional



savings through a combination of additional product and
other cost-management initiatives, market-based wage adjustments, a common
health and retirement benefits package for every work group, and work rule
changes focusing on greater efficiency in operations. Although we plan to work
cooperatively with labor groups and employees to achieve these targets,
operating changes are not yet in place to generate this level of cost savings.
We cannot be certain that we
will be able to implement changes in our operations sufficient to generate this
level of savings, or that if such changes are implemented, that forecasted
savings will be achieved. In the event that we are unable to achieve our cost
reduction goals, or our efforts prove less successful than those of our
competitors, our results of operations will likely be below our own
expectations and may be below those of outside financial analysts, and our
financial condition may be harmed.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A
failure to negotiate new agreements, or to do so on terms competitive with the
labor costs and practices of our competitors, could disrupt our business and
increase our costs.

As of December 31, 2003, labor unions represented 84% of Alaska’s and 43% of
Horizon’s employees. Alaska is currently in negotiations with the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers union, which
represents its ramp service and stock clerk work group. Labor costs generally
are a significant component of our total expenses, comprising 38% of our total
operating expenses in 2003. Each of our different employee groups may require
separate collective bargaining agreements, and may make demands that would
increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. If we
were unable to reach agreement on the terms of any collective bargaining
agreement with any group of our employees or were to experience widespread
employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages.
We could also become subject to protests or picketing by organized labor groups
representing our employees. Any of these events would be disruptive to our
operations and could harm our business. In the event any agreement we reach
with an organized labor group requires us to pay wages or to incur costs that
are materially higher than those we currently pay or we are unable to fully
offset such increased costs through fare increases, our expenses would increase
and our operating margin would be harmed.

Increases in fuel costs would harm our business.

Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses,
comprising 14.5% of total operating expenses for the year ended December 31,
2003. Significant increases in fuel costs would harm our financial condition
and results of operations. We estimate that during the year ended December 31,
2003, a one-cent increase in the price per gallon of fuel would have increased
our fuel expenses by $3.9 million.

Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on
geopolitical issues and supply and demand. Fuel availability is also subject
to periods of market surplus and shortage and is affected by demand for both
home heating oil and gasoline. Because of the effect of these events on the
price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot
be predicted with any degree of certainty. In the event of a fuel supply
shortage, higher fuel prices or the curtailment of scheduled service could
result. Some of our competitors may have more leverage in obtaining fuel. We
may be unable to offset increases in the price of fuel through



higher fares.
We utilize our fuel hedges as a form of insurance against significant increases
in fuel prices. To hedge our exposure to fuel price fluctuations, we began
purchasing hedging instruments, primarily crude oil swaps during 2000. At
December 31, 2003, we had swap and cap agreements for crude oil contracts in
place to hedge approximately 33% of our 2004 expected jet fuel requirements.
Even with hedges, we are substantially exposed to increases in jet fuel costs.

Our insurance costs have increased substantially as a result of the September
11, 2001 terrorist attacks, and further increases in insurance costs would harm
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Following the September 11, terrorist attacks, aviation insurers dramatically
increased airline insurance premiums and significantly reduced the maximum
amount of insurance available to airlines for third-party claims resulting from
acts of terrorism, war or similar events to $50 million per event and in the
aggregate. In light of this development, under the Air Transportation Safety
and Stabilization Act, the Homeland Security Act of 2002, and the Emergency
Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2003, the government is currently
offering domestic airlines either (i) third-party liability war risk coverage
above $50 million, or (ii) in lieu of commercial war risk insurance, full hull,
comprehensive and third-party liability war risk coverage. This coverage
provides for the same limits of hull and comprehensive insurance and twice the
limits of third-party liability insurance carried by the airline on September
11, 2001.

Aviation insurers could increase their premiums even further in the event of
additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline accidents or other events
adversely affecting the airline industry. Furthermore, the full hull,
comprehensive and third-party war risk insurance provided by the government is
mandated through August 31, 2004, with the possibility of an extension through
December 31, 2004. While the government may extend the deadline for when it
will stop providing such coverage, we cannot be certain that any extension will
occur, or if it does, how long the extension will last. It is expected that,
should the government stop providing such coverage to the airline industry, the
premiums charged by aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially
higher than the premiums currently charged by the government. Significant
increases in insurance premiums would adversely impact our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Changes in government regulation imposing additional requirements and
restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs and result in
service delays and disruptions.

Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both
domestically and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs.
In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the DOT and the FAA
have issued regulations, relating to the operation of airlines that have
required significant expenditures. For example, on November 19, 2001, the
President signed into law the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the
Security Act). This law federalizes substantially all aspects of civil
aviation security and requires, among other things, the implementation of
certain security measures by airlines and airports, such as the requirement
that all passenger bags be screened for explosives. Funding for airline and
airport security under the law is primarily provided by a new $2.50 per
enplanement ticket tax, with authority granted to the TSA to impose additional
fees on the air carriers if necessary to cover



additional federal aviation
security costs. Implementation of the requirements of the Security Act will
result in increased costs for our company and our passengers. In addition to
increased costs, the security measures required to be implemented under the
Security Act, as well as additional security measures issued by the FAA, have
on occasion resulted in a longer check-in process for passengers and caused
delays and disruptions in airline service, which has led to customer
frustration and may reduce the demand for airline travel. Additional laws,
regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time
to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or
reduce the demand for air travel. If adopted, these measures could have the
effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and/or increasing costs.

Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an airline
accident or incident.

An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft, such as the loss of
Alaska Flight 261 off the coast of California in January 2000, could involve a
significant loss of life and result in a loss of faith in our airlines by the
flying public. In addition, we could experience significant potential claims
from injured passengers and surviving relatives, as well as costs for the
repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or
permanent loss from service. Airlines are required by the DOT to carry
liability insurance. Although we believe that we currently maintain liability
insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry
practice, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced
to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from
an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business
and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if
fully insured and even if it does not involve one of our airlines, could cause
a public perception that our airlines or the equipment they fly is less safe or
reliable than other transportation alternatives, which would harm our business.

Our operations are often affected by factors beyond our control, including
traffic congestion at airports, weather conditions and increased security
measures, any of which could harm our financial condition and results of
operations.

Like other airlines, our operations are subject to delays caused by factors
beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse
weather conditions and increased security measures. Delays frustrate
passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which in
turn affect our profitability. During periods of fog, snow, rain, freezing
rain, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be canceled or
significantly delayed. Due to our geographic area of operations, we believe our
operations are more susceptible to adverse weather conditions than many of our
competitors. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control
problems and breaches in security could harm our financial condition and
results of operations.

Our failure to successfully expand our business could harm our financial
condition and results of operations.

A part of our current profitability strategy involves increasing the frequency
of flights in markets we currently serve, expanding the number of markets
served and increasing flight connection



opportunities. We believe that growth
will allow us to achieve additional economies of scale and to manage unit
costs. Increasing the number of markets we serve depends on our ability to
access suitable airports, facilities and in some cases regulatory approvals in
targeted markets. Any condition that would deny, limit or delay access to such
airports, facilities or approvals would constrain our ability to grow. In
addition, successful growth depends on our ability to maintain yields and load
factors at profitable levels. Inadequate revenues in new markets may require us
to revise our current growth strategy. We cannot be certain that we will be
able to successfully expand our existing markets or establish new markets, and
the failure to do so could harm our financial condition and results of
operations.

If Alaska fails to comply with financial covenants, some of its financing
agreements may be terminated.

Alaska is required to comply with specific financial covenants in certain
agreements, primarily its $150 million revolving credit facility. We cannot
ensure that Alaska will be able to comply with these covenants or provisions or
that these requirements will not limit our ability to finance our future
operations or capital needs. Alaska’s inability to comply with the required
financial maintenance covenants or provisions could result in default under
these financing agreements and would result in a cross default under Alaska’s
other financing agreements. In the event of any such default and our inability
to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under the agreements
could be declared to be immediately due and payable. If Alaska did not have
sufficient available cash to pay all amounts that became due and payable, Air
Group or Alaska would have to seek additional debt or equity financing, which
may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If such financing were not
available, Alaska would have to sell assets in order to obtain the funds
required to make accelerated payments or risk its aircraft becoming subject to
repossession, which could harm our business.

Our business could be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain qualified
personnel at reasonable costs.

Our business is labor intensive, with labor costs representing 38% of our
operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2003. We expect salaries,
wages and benefits to increase on a gross basis and that these costs could
increase as a percentage of our overall costs, which could harm our business.
We compete against the major U.S. airlines for labor in many highly skilled
positions. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a
reasonable cost, or if we lose the services of key personnel we may be unable
to grow or sustain our business and our operating results and business
prospects could be harmed. We may also have difficulty replacing management or
other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of any of these
individuals could harm our business.

We have incurred operating losses in each year since 2000 and may incur
substantial operating losses in the future. In addition, our quarterly results
can fluctuate substantially.

For the year ended December 31, 2003, Air Group incurred an operating loss of
$11.1 million. Prior to that, we incurred operating losses of $88.9 million,
$126.3 million and $33.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001
and 2000, respectively. The inability to achieve or sustain



profitability may
hinder our ability to honor our existing obligations as they become due, to
obtain future equity or debt financing or to do so on economical terms, and to
sustain and expand our business.

In addition, our quarterly results can fluctuate substantially due to a variety
of factors including seasonal variations in traffic, the timing of various
expenditures, and weather. Because expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary
significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively
small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate
effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. Accordingly, a minor
shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative
impact on our operating results. Due to these factors, as well as other risk
factors described in this Form 10-K, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our
results may not be good indicators of our future performance. In addition, it
is possible that in any future quarter our operating results could be below
expectations of investors and any published reports or analyses regarding our
company. In that event, the price of Air Group’s common stock could decline,
perhaps substantially.

Our indebtedness could increase the volatility of earnings and otherwise
restrict our activities.

We have and will continue to have for the foreseeable future a significant
amount of indebtedness. Due to our high fixed costs, including aircraft lease
commitments and debt service, a decrease in revenues results in a
disproportionately greater decrease in earnings. As of December 31, 2003, we
had approximately $1,113.6 million of indebtedness outstanding, approximately
$955.1 million of which was secured by flight equipment and real property and
approximately $8.5 million of capital lease obligations.

Our outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it
could:

•

limit our ability to obtain additional financing for
funding our growth strategy, capital expenditures, acquisitions,
working capital or other purposes,

•

require us to dedicate a material portion of our operating
cash flow to fund interest payments on indebtedness, thereby
reducing funds available for other purposes, and

•

limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and
reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and
economic conditions, including reacting to any economic slowdown in
the airline industry.

In addition, we have an ongoing need to finance new aircraft deliveries, and
there is no assurance that such financing will be available to us in sufficient
amounts or on acceptable terms.

A downgrade in our corporate credit rating may indicate a decline in our
business and in our ability to make interest or principal payments on our
outstanding debt.

In 2003, Air Group’s credit ratings were downgraded by both S&P and Moody’s.
On March 14, 2003, the senior implied rating for Alaska Air Group was
downgraded from Ba3 to B1 by Moody’s with a commensurate reduction in other
ratings. On September 4, 2003, Standard & Poor’s announced that it lowered the
corporate credit rating from BB to BB- with a commensurate reduction in other
ratings. We cannot be assured that our corporate credit ratings will not
decline



in the future. If any of our ratings decline, this may indicate a
decline in our business and may affect the trading prices, if any, of our
common stock or convertible notes and may make additional borrowing more
expensive and difficult to obtain.



ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

Aircraft

The following tables describe the aircraft we operate and their average age at December 31, 2003:

Passenger

Average Age

Aircraft Type

Capacity

Owned

Leased

Total

in Years

Alaska Airlines

Boeing 737-200C





22.9

Boeing 737-400





8.7

Boeing 737-700





2.8

Boeing 737-900



—


1.5

Boeing MD-80





12.2




8.8

Horizon Air

Bombardier Q200


—



5.8

Bombardier Q400


—



2.4

Bombardier CRJ 700


—



1.8

—



3.8

Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations,” discusses future orders and options for additional
aircraft.

51 of the 60 aircraft owned by Alaska as of December 31, 2003 are subject to
liens securing long-term debt. Alaska’s leased 737-200C, 737-400, 737-700 and
MD-80 aircraft have lease expiration dates in 2004, between 2004 and 2016, and
between 2004 and 2013, respectively. Horizon’s leased Q400 and CRJ 700
aircraft have expiration dates between 2004 and 2018 and between 2018 and 2020,
respectively. Alaska and Horizon have the option to extend most of the leases
for additional periods, or the right to purchase the aircraft at the end of the
lease term, usually at the then fair market value of the aircraft. For
information regarding obligations under capital leases and long-term operating
leases, see Note 5 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

At December 31, 2003, all of our aircraft met the Stage 3 noise requirements
under the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990. However, special noise
ordinances restrict the timing of flights operated by Alaska and other airlines
at Burbank, Orange County, San Diego, San Jose and Palm Springs. In addition,
Orange County, Reagan National and Long Beach airports restrict the type of
aircraft and number of flights.

Ground Facilities and Services

Alaska and Horizon lease ticket counters, gates, cargo and baggage space,
office space, and other support areas at the majority of the airports they
serve. Alaska also owns terminal buildings in various cities in the state of
Alaska.

Alaska has centralized operations in several buildings located at or near
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac) in Seattle, Washington. The
owned buildings, including land



unless located on leased airport property,
include a three-bay hangar facility with maintenance
shops, a flight operations and training center, an air cargo facility, an
information processing center, several office buildings, its corporate
headquarters, and two storage warehouses. Alaska also leases a two-bay
hangar/office facility at Sea-Tac, a reservation and office facility in Kent,
WA, and a reservation center in Boise, ID. Alaska’s other major facilities
include a regional headquarters building, an air cargo facility, and a leased
hangar/office facility in Anchorage; a Phoenix reservations center; and a
leased two-bay maintenance facility in Oakland.

Horizon owns its Seattle corporate headquarters building. It leases an
operations, training, and aircraft maintenance facility in Portland, and
maintenance facilities in Boise, Pasco, Seattle and Spokane.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are a party to routine litigation incidental to our business and with
respect to which no material liability is expected. Management believes the
ultimate disposition of these matters is not likely to materially affect our
financial position or results of operations. This forward-looking statement is
based on management’s current understanding of the relevant law and facts; it
is subject to various contingencies, including the potential costs and risks
associated with litigation and the actions of judges and juries.



ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. (including its subsidiaries
Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air Industries), their positions and their
respective ages (as of January 4, 2004) are as follows:

Air Group

or Subsidiary

Name

Position

Age

Officer Since

William S. Ayer

Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group,
Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.



Bradley D. Tilden

Executive Vice President/Finance
and Chief Financial Officer
of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and
Alaska Airlines, Inc.



Keith Loveless

Vice President/Legal and Corporate Affairs,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
and Alaska Airlines, Inc.



George Bagley

Executive Vice President/Operations
of Alaska Airlines, Inc.



Gregg Saretsky

Executive Vice President/Marketing and
Planning of Alaska Airlines, Inc.



Jeffrey D. Pinneo

President and Chief Executive Officer
of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.



Mr. Ayer

has been our President since February 2003 and became our Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer in May 2003. Mr. Ayer is also Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Airlines. He has served as Alaska Airlines’
Chairman since February 2003, as Chief Executive Officer since January 2002 and
as President since November 1997. Prior thereto, he was Sr. Vice
President/Customer Service, Marketing and Planning of Alaska Airlines from
January 1997, and Vice President/Marketing and Planning from August 1995. Prior
thereto, he served as Sr. Vice President/Operations of Horizon Air from January
1995. Mr. Ayer serves on the boards of Alaska Airlines, the Alaska Airlines
Foundation, Angel Flight America, Inc., and the Museum of Flight. He also
serves on the University of Washington Business School Advisory Board.



Mr. Tilden

joined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became controller of Alaska Airlines
and Alaska Air Group in 1994, became CFO in February 2000 and Executive Vice
President/Finance in January 2002.

Mr. Loveless

became Corporate Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of Alaska
Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1996. In 1999, he became Vice President/Legal
and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air
Group and Alaska Airlines.

Mr. Bagley

was promoted to President and CEO of Horizon Air in 1995, and in
January 2002 became Executive Vice President/Operations of Alaska Airlines.

Mr. Saretsky

joined Alaska Airlines in March 1998 as Vice President/Marketing
and Planning. In 2000 he became Senior Vice President/Marketing and Planning,
and in January 2002 was elected Executive Vice President/Marketing and Planning
of Alaska Airlines.

Mr. Pinneo

became Vice President/Passenger Service of Horizon Air Industries in
1990. In January 2002 he was promoted to President and CEO of Horizon Air.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

As of December 31, 2003, there were 26,761,940 shares of common stock of Alaska
Air Group, Inc. issued and outstanding and 4,116 shareholders of record. We
also held 2,712,979 treasury shares at a cost of $61.9 million. We have not
paid dividends on the common stock since 1992. Our common stock is listed on
the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: ALK).

The following table shows the trading range of Alaska Air Group, Inc. common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange.



High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

$

33.90

$

27.95

$

24.35

$

15.28

Second Quarter

33.23

24.75

21.98

15.49

Third Quarter

27.23

16.24

29.76

20.82

Fourth Quarter

23.72

13.66

31.86

24.76

Sales of Non-Registered Securities

There were no sales of non-registered securities during 2002. On March 21,
2003, we completed the private placement of $150 million of floating rate
senior convertible notes due in 2023. The private placement was made
exclusively to qualified institutional buyers, as defined in Rule 144A of the
Securities Act of 1933, through Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and Goldman, Sachs & Co. as the initial purchasers. Aggregate
discounts to the initial purchasers in connection with the sale of the notes
were approximately $4.5 million. In September 2003, we registered these notes
with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to requirements of



the private placement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for material information regarding these convertible notes.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

At the upcoming annual meeting of shareholders in May 2004, Air Group expects
to submit for shareholder approval a new long-term incentive equity plan. The
plan will authorize the issuance of up to 1.7 million new shares of common
stock. This plan, if approved, will replace our existing equity plan, which
expires as of the date of the annual meeting. As with prior versions, this
equity plan will enable us to make awards over several years of equity-based
compensation, which we believe are an important tool to attract and retain key
employees.

The table below provides information, as of the end of the most recently
completed fiscal year, concerning securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans.

(c)

(a)

Number of Securities

Number of

Remaining Available

Securities to be

(b)

for Future Issuance

Issued Upon

Weighted Average

under Equity

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Compensation Plans

Outstanding

Outstanding

(excluding Securities

Options, Warrants

Options, Warrants

Reflected in Column

Plan Category

and Rights

and Rights

(a))

Equity compensation plans approved by security
holders

2,535,512

29.16

448,400

Equity compensation plans not approved by security
holders

1,153,425

31.86

6,089

*

Total

3,688,937

30.01

454,489

*

Shares remaining available for issuance under the Nonemployee Director
Stock Plan, described below.

The shares to be issued under plans not approved by stockholders relate to the
Company’s 1997 Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan and Nonemployee Director Stock
Plan. These plans were adopted by the Board of Directors in 1997 and did not
require stockholder approval because no grants to executive officers were
allowed under the plans.

1997 Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan (the “1997 Plan”)

The 1997 Plan terminated on November 3, 2002 and no further awards may be made.
Awards granted before that date remain outstanding in accordance with their
terms. Under the 1997 Plan, awards could be made to any employee of the Company
who was not a director or officer subject to the reporting requirements of
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Awards could be
made in the form of stock options, SARs or stock awards. The 1997 Plan is
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

Nonemployee Director Stock Plan (the “Directors’ Plan”)

An aggregate of up to 25,000 shares of common stock was authorized for issuance
under the Directors’ Plan. It remains in effect until all shares have been
purchased or acquired or until terminated by the Board.



Each member of the Board of Directors of the Company who is not employed by the
Company or each one of its subsidiaries is an eligible director. Each year on
the first business day following that year’s annual meeting of stockholders, a
portion of an eligible director’s annual retainer for services as a director
for the coming year is paid in shares of common stock having a total value of
$5,000.

In addition, each eligible director may elect to reduce his or her annual cash
retainer and to receive instead a number of shares of common stock equal in
value to the amount of the reduction on the same date the stock payment
described above is made.

Directors have the right to vote and receive dividends on shares that have been
issued under the Directors’ Plan. The shares are not forfeited when
participants leave the Board or otherwise become ineligible to continue in the
Directors’ Plan.



ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA






Consolidated Financial Data:

Year Ended December 31 (in millions, except per share amounts):

Operating Revenues

$

2,091.5

$

2,194.0

$

2,152.8

$

2,224.1

$

2,444.8

Operating Expenses

1,901.7

2,227.1

2,279.1

2,313.0

2,455.9

Operating Income (Loss)

189.8

(33.1

)

(126.3

)

(88.9

)

(11.1

)

Nonoperating income (expense), net (a)

23.2

6.2

62.8

(12.9

)

40.1

Income (loss) before income tax and accounting change

213.0

(26.9

)

(63.5

)

(101.8

)

29.0

Income (loss) before accounting change

129.4

(20.4

)

(43.4

)

(67.2

)

13.5

Net Income (Loss)

$

129.4

$

(67.2

)

$

(43.4

)

$

(118.6

)

$

13.5

Average basic shares outstanding

26.372

26.440

26.499

26.546

26.648

Average diluted shares outstanding

26.507

26.440

26.499

26.546

26.730

Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting change

$

4.91

$

(0.77

)

$

(1.64

)

$

(2.53

)

$

0.51

Basic earnings (loss) per share (b)

4.91

(2.54

)

(1.64

)

(4.47

)

0.51

Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting change

4.88

(0.77

)

(1.64

)

(2.53

)

0.51

Diluted earnings (loss) per share (b)

4.88

(2.54

)

(1.64

)

(4.47

)

0.51

At End of Period (in millions, except ratio):

Total assets

$

2,196.0

$

2,528.1

$

2,950.5

$

2,880.7

$

3,259.2

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, net of current

337.0

509.2

852.2

856.7

906.9

Shareholders’ equity

959.2

895.1

851.3

655.7

674.2

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (c)

3.07

0.66

0.48

0.28

1.22

Alaska Airlines Operating Data:

Revenue passengers (000)

13,620

13,525

13,668

14,154

15,047

Revenue passenger miles (RPM) (000,000)

11,777

11,986

12,249

13,186

14,554

Available seat miles (ASM) (000,000)

17,341

17,315

17,919

19,360

20,804

Revenue passenger load factor

67.9

%

69.2

%

68.4

%

68.1

%

70.0

%

Yield per passenger mile

12.86

¢

13.56

¢

13.12

¢

12.65

¢

12.65

¢

Operating revenues per ASM

9.75

¢

10.20

¢

9.84

¢

9.47

¢

9.74

¢

Operating expenses per ASM

8.81

¢

10.35

¢

10.24

¢

9.85

¢

9.81

¢

Average number of employees

9,183

9,611

10,115

10,142

10,040

Horizon Air Operating Data:

Revenue passengers (000)

4,984

5,044

4,668

4,815

4,934

Revenue passenger miles (RPM) (000,000)

1,379

1,428

1,350

1,514

1,640

Available seat miles (ASM) (000,000)

2,194

2,299

2,148

2,428

2,569

Revenue passenger load factor

62.9

%

62.1

%

62.8

%

62.4

%

63.9

%

Yield per passenger mile

28.77

¢

29.82

¢

28.15

¢

26.02

¢

26.96

¢

Operating revenues per ASM

18.96

¢

19.27

¢

19.02

¢

17.29

¢

18.06

¢

Operating expenses per ASM (d)

17.74

¢

19.53

¢

21.02

¢

17.84

¢

17.76

¢

Average number of employees

3,603

3,795

3,764

3,476

3,361

(a)

Includes capitalized interest of $12.6 million, $17.7 million, $10.6 million, $2.7 million and $2.3 million
for 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, respectively.

(b)

For 2000, basic and diluted earnings per share include $(1.77) per share for the $46.8 million cumulative effect
of the accounting change for the sale of frequent flyer miles. For 2002, basic and diluted earnings per share
include $(1.94) per share for the $51.4 million cumulative effect of the accounting change in connection
with the impairment of goodwill.

(c)

For 2000, 2001 and 2002, earnings are inadequate to cover fixed charges by $39.9 million, $69.1 million
and $99.5 million, respectively.

(d)

For 2001, operating expense per ASM excludes the impact of a $10.2 million special charge related to the impairment
of Horizon’s F-28 aircraft and related spare parts.



Alaska Airlines Financial and Statistical Data

Quarter Ended December 31

Year Ended December 31

%

%



Change



Change

Financial Data (in millions):

Operating Revenues:

Passenger

$

392.2

$

460.3

17.4

$

1,667.7

$

1,840.4

10.4

Freight and mail

16.5

17.5

6.1

72.1

77.3

7.2

Other - net

21.1

26.7

26.5

93.3

109.7

17.6

Total Operating Revenues

429.8

504.5

17.4

1,833.1

2,027.4

10.6

Operating Expenses:

Wages and benefits

179.4

199.9

11.4

703.4

778.6

10.7

Employee profit sharing

—

2.9

NM

—

2.9

NM

Contracted services

20.3

20.7

2.0

80.1

81.6

1.9

Aircraft fuel

67.2

79.1

17.7

257.3

306.7

19.2

Aircraft maintenance

41.9

35.7

(14.8

)

145.2

153.4

5.6

Aircraft rent

32.4

31.1

(4.0

)

128.2

123.9

(3.4

)

Food and beverage service

15.6

13.9

(10.9

)

63.5

58.7

(7.6

)

Other selling expenses and commissions

31.8

39.0

22.6

154.6

148.0

(4.3

)

Depreciation and amortization

28.3

31.7

12.0

114.0

119.5

4.8

Loss on sale of assets

1.0

2.1

NM

1.7

3.4

NM

Landing fees and other rentals

28.3

34.3

21.2

110.5

127.8

15.7

Other

37.5

34.0

(9.3

)

148.8

136.9

(8.0

)

Total Operating Expenses

483.7

524.4

8.4

1,907.3

2,041.4

7.0

Operating Loss

(53.9

)

(19.9

)

(63.1

)

(74.2

)

(14.0

)

(81.1

)

Interest income

5.7

4.9

23.2

15.2

Interest expense

(11.6

)

(11.3

)

(46.6

)

(45.2

)

Interest capitalized

1.0

0.2

2.1

1.5

U.S. government compensation

—

—

0.3

52.8

Other - net

0.2

(1.2

)

7.9

1.5

(4.7

)

(7.4

)

(13.1

)

25.8

Income (Loss) Before Income Tax
and Accounting Change

$

(58.6

)

$

(27.3

)

NM

$

(87.3

)

$

11.8

NM

Operating Statistics:

Revenue passengers (000)

3,367

3,712

10.2

14,154

15,047

6.3

RPMs (000,000)

3,164

3,608

14.0

13,186

14,554

10.4

ASMs (000,000)

4,758

5,194

9.2

19,360

20,804

7.5

Passenger load factor

66.5

%

69.5

%

3.0pts

68.1

%

70.0

%

1.9pts

Breakeven load factor

78.4

%

74.4

%

(4.0)pts

73.1

%

72.3

%

(0.8)pts

Yield per passenger mile

12.40

¢

12.76

¢

2.9

12.65

¢

12.65

¢

(0.0

)

Operating revenue per ASM

9.03

¢

9.71

¢

7.5

9.47

¢

9.74

¢

2.9

Operating expenses per ASM (a)

10.17

¢

10.10

¢

(0.7

)

9.85

¢

9.81

¢

(0.4

)

Expense per ASM excluding fuel (a)

8.75

¢

8.57

¢

(2.1

)

8.52

¢

8.34

¢

(2.1

)

Fuel cost per gallon

84.7

¢

94.8

¢

11.9

79.6

¢

90.9

¢

14.2

Fuel gallons (000,000)

79.3

83.4

5.2

323.3

337.3

4.3

Average number of employees

10,065

9,921

(1.4

)

10,142

10,040

(1.0

)

Aircraft utilization (blk hrs/day)

10.3

10.3

0.0

10.6

10.5

(0.9

)

Operating fleet at period-end



6.9



6.9

NM = Not Meaningful

(a) See Note A on page 31.

Note 1:

Certain reclassifications have been made to the December 31, 2002 statement of operations to conform to
the December 31, 2003 presentation.

Note 2:

Operating loss for the three months and year ended December 31, 2003 includes adjustments to increase
operating expenses by $2.4 million (pretax) and $3.1 million (pretax), respectively, related to prior years.
Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2003 also includes adjustments to increase operating
expenses by $1.8 million (pretax) and increase operating revenues by $6.3 million (pretax), both related to
previous quarters in 2003. In addition, interest income for the 2003 year includes an adjustment recorded in
the first quarter that reduced interest income by $2.8 million (pretax) related to the previous year. Management
does not believe that these amounts are material to the periods affected.



Horizon Air Financial and Statistical Data

NM = Not Meaningful

(a) See Note A on page 31.

Note:

Certain reclassifications have been made to the December 31, 2002 statement of operations to conform to
the December 31, 2003 presentation.



Note A:

Pursuant to Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the Company is providing disclosure of
the reconciliation of reported non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly
comparable financial measures reported on a GAAP basis. The non-GAAP financial measures
provide management the ability to measure and monitor the Company’s performance
both with and without the cost of aircraft fuel. As both the cost and availability of
aircraft fuel are subject to many economic and political factors beyond the Company’s
control, it is the Company’s view that the measurement and monitoring of performance
without this factor is important. These non-GAAP financial measures are also more comparable
to financial measures reported to the Department of Transportation by other major network airlines.
The following table reconciles operating expenses excluding fuel and operating expenses per
ASM excluding fuel for both Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Horizon Air Industries, Inc.:

Alaska Airlines, Inc.:

Horizon Air Industries, Inc.:



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial
statements and the related notes contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. All statements in the following discussion which are not reports of
historical information or descriptions of current accounting policies are
forward-looking statements. Please consider our forward-looking statements in
light of the risks referred to in this report’s introductory cautionary note.
There can be no assurance that actual developments will be those anticipated by
us. Actual results could differ materially from those projected as a result of
a number of factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. For a
discussion of these factors, see Item 1, “Business-Business Risks.”

General

Alaska and Horizon operate as airlines. However, their business plans,
competition, and economic risks differ substantially. Alaska is a major
airline serving primarily Alaska; the U.S. West Coast; five cities on the U.S.
East Coast; Vancouver, Canada; and Mexico. It operates an all jet fleet and
its average passenger trip is 967 miles. Horizon is a regional airline serving
primarily the Pacific Northwest, Northern California, and Western Canada. It
operates both jet and turboprop aircraft, and its average passenger trip is 332
miles. As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
beginning in 2004, Horizon will operate regional jet service branded as
Frontier JetExpress under an agreement with Frontier Airlines.

Year in Review and Current Events

Overall, economic conditions in 2003 improved slightly over 2001 and 2002,
resulting in stronger summer demand and higher than expected fourth quarter
revenue passenger miles (RPMs or traffic). However, industry demand levels, as
measured by passenger traffic, remained below pre- 2001 levels. In an attempt
to mitigate negative impacts on our business resulting from the terrorist
attacks of September 11, 2001 and the economic downturn in 2001, and 2002 and
the first half of 2003, our business strategy focuses on extensive cost
reductions and revenue enhancement initiatives involving the review of every
aspect of our operations. We experienced increases in both traffic and
available seat miles (ASMs or capacity), however our yields (passenger fare
divided by distance traveled) remained flat (at Alaska) year over year. Our
unit costs excluding fuel declined at both Alaska and Horizon, although fuel
prices increased roughly 14% year over year. We expect capacity to increase 6%
for Alaska and 19% for Horizon in 2004 compared to 2003.

In February 2004, Alaska initiated a fare rationalization plan whereby a number
of restrictions were eliminated and the gap between the highest and lowest
fares was reduced. The goal of this initiative is to increase customer value
and simplify the customer’s purchase decision.

In June 2003, Alaska met with leaders of its labor unions to begin a dialog
over how Alaska and its labor groups can work cooperatively to better position
the airline for growth and success. These meetings focused on our desire to
achieve a cost structure that enables us to offer customers the services they
want at fares they are willing to pay; to earn a reasonable profit; to grow our
business and take advantage of opportunities; and to secure the futures of as
many of our employees as possible. To reach these goals, our objective is to
reduce our cost per available seat



mile excluding fuel to 7.25 cents by 2005. However, this is a goal and should
not be viewed as a prediction of future performance.

As discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, in April
2003, the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act was signed into
legislation. The Act includes $2.3 billion of one-time cash payments to air
carriers, allocated based on each carrier’s share of security fees remitted and
carrier fees paid to the Transportation Security Administration since its
inception in February 2002. Additionally, passenger security fees were not
imposed by the TSA and carrier fees were not paid during the period June 1,
2003 through September 30, 2003. In May 2003, we received our share of the
one-time cash grant in the amount of $71.4 million ($52.8 million for Alaska
and $18.6 million for Horizon).

In the fourth quarter of 2003, we made a decision to retire three 737-200C
aircraft when they become due for their scheduled maintenance heavy checks in
2004. As a result of this decision, we revised our estimates of the useful
lives on these aircraft, which resulted in increased depreciation and
amortization of approximately $1.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. We
expect to record an additional $9.3 million in 2004.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2003 Compared with 2002

Our consolidated net income for 2003 was $13.5 million, or $0.51 per share,
compared with a net loss of $118.6 million, or $4.47 per share, in 2002. Our
2003 results include $71.4 million ($52.8 million for Alaska and $18.6 million
for Horizon) received related to assistance from the government under the
Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act. Our 2002 net loss includes
$0.5 million received from the government and $51.4 million related to the
write-off of goodwill in connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142 (see
discussion in Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
Excluding the government compensation received in 2003 and 2002 and the
goodwill write-off in 2002, our net loss for 2003 was $30.8 million ($1.15 per
share) compared to $67.5 million ($2.54 per share) for 2002.

Our consolidated operating loss for 2003 was $11.1 million compared to $88.9
million for 2002. Our consolidated pre-tax income for 2003 was $29.0 million
compared with a consolidated pre-tax loss before accounting change of $101.8
million for 2002. Financial and statistical data comparisons for Alaska and
Horizon are shown on pages 29 and 30, respectively. On page 31, we have
included a reconciliation of reported non-GAAP financial measures to the most
directly comparable GAAP financial measures.

Alaska Airlines Revenues

Operating revenues increased $194.3 million, or 10.6%, during 2003 as compared
to the same period in 2002. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2003,
capacity increased 7.5% and traffic increased 10.4% as compared to the same
period in 2002. The capacity increases are primarily due to the addition of
service to new cities (Boston, Denver, Newark, Washington D.C., Orlando and
Miami) and an increase in service in the Pacific Northwest, Mexico, and Canada
markets, partially offset by lower capacity in the Bay Area, Arizona and
Northern Alaska. During 2003, roughly 75% of our ASM growth came from
expansion in the Transcontinental and Denver



markets. Traffic increases
primarily reflect service to new cities and traffic increases in the Pacific
Northwest, Mexico and Nevada, partially offset by decreases in traffic in the
Bay Area, Northern Alaska and Arizona. Higher traffic resulted in a $172.7
million, or 10.4%, increase in passenger revenues. Our passenger load factor
(RPMs divided by ASMs) increased 1.9 percentage points to 70.0% during 2003 as
compared to 2002.

Our yield per passenger mile remained constant compared to 2002 due to a
combination of longer average stage lengths, fewer business travelers, and
continued pricing pressure by low cost carriers, partially offset by an
increase in revenue from expired Mileage Plan accounts.

Freight and mail revenues increased $5.2 million, or 7.2%, due principally to
higher freight and mail volumes attributable to a reduction of security
restrictions. Other-net revenues increased $16.4 million, or 17.6%, due
largely to cash received from the sale of miles in our frequent flyer program
(impacting other revenue currently as a portion is recognized immediately) and
redemption of miles on partner airlines.

Alaska Airlines Expenses

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, total operating expenses
increased $134.1 million, or 7.0%, as compared to the same period in 2002.
This increase is due largely to a 7.5% increase in ASMs combined with higher
fuel, maintenance, wages and benefits costs and landing fees and other rentals.
Operating expense per ASM excluding fuel decreased 2.1% as compared to the
same period in 2002 from 8.52 cents to 8.34 cents. Explanations of significant
period-over-period changes in the components of operating expenses are as
follows:

•

Wages and benefits increased $75.2 million, or 10.7%, during 2003
as compared to 2002. Approximately $52.8 million of this increase
reflects higher benefit costs, mainly increases in pension costs of
approximately $34.1 million and higher health insurance and workers’
compensation costs. The remaining $22.4 million increase reflects
scale and step increases, partially offset by a 1.0% decrease in the
number of full time equivalent employees.

In May of 2004, under terms of our union contract, our pilots will
receive a 4% wage rate increase.

•

Alaska recorded employee profit sharing of $2.9 million in 2003,
which will be paid in 2004. No profit sharing occurred in 2002.

•

Aircraft fuel increased $49.4 million, or 19.2%, due to a 14.2%
increase in the fuel cost per gallon and a 4.3% increase in fuel
gallons consumed. Air Group’s fuel hedging program resulted in Alaska
recognizing a $25.0 million reduction in aircraft fuel expense for
hedging gains realized on hedge positions settled during 2003. Fuel
prices remain high and can be volatile. At December 31, 2003, we have
fuel hedge contracts in place to hedge 33%, 28% and 2% of our expected
fuel usage in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively.

•

Aircraft maintenance increased $8.2 million, or 5.6%, due to
increases in the number of outside airframe and engine checks and
other outside repairs and additional depreciation



that was recorded following our decision in the fourth quarter to retire
three Boeing 737-200Cs in 2004.

•

Aircraft rent decreased $4.3 million, or 3.4%, due to new lease
extensions at lower rates, partially offset by five new 737-700
leases.

•

Other selling expenses and commissions decreased $6.6 million, or
4.3%. This decrease was due principally to lower computer reservation
system costs, the elimination of travel agency base commissions and
lower Mileage Plan costs, partially offset by an increase in credit
card commissions, advertising costs, and incentive payments made to
Horizon. Incentive payments to Horizon are eliminated in
consolidation at the Air Group level. In 2003, 43.0% of Air Group
ticket sales were made through traditional travel agents, compared to
48.2% in 2002. In 2003, 27.4% of the ticket sales were made through
Alaska’s Internet web site compared to 21.0% in 2002.

•

Depreciation and amortization increased $5.5 million, or 4.8%
reflecting a year over year increase in the depreciable asset base and
$0.7 million in accelerated depreciation on three 737-200s which will
be retired in 2004.

In 2004, we expect to record an additional $9.3 million of depreciation
and maintenance expense as a result of the projected retirement.

•

Landing fees and other rentals increased $17.3 million, or 15.7%.
The higher rates reflect modest volume growth and an increase in
airports’ cost of operations, including facility expansion
initiatives, and increased costs for security.

We expect landing fees and other rentals to continue to increase as a
result of airport facility expansions and increased costs for security.

•

Other expense decreased $11.9 million, or 8.0%, primarily
reflecting lower expenditures for insurance, supplies, communication
services and property taxes, partially offset by increases in
expenditures for professional services and per diems. Insurance
expense decreases are a reflection of several factors including a $3.7
million insurance reimbursement received during the latter part of
2003 resulting from a clarification of liability related to Flight
261, lower cost coverage from a government aviation war risk insurance
program and competitive pressures in the aviation war risk insurance
market. However, aviation insurance remains substantially higher than
before September 11, 2001.

Horizon Air Revenues

Operating revenues increased $44.2 million, or 10.5%, during 2003 as compared
to 2002 due, in part, to an increase in incentive payments from Alaska for feed
traffic, which eliminates in consolidation. For the twelve months ending
December 31, 2003, capacity increased 5.8% and traffic was up 8.3%, compared to
the same period in 2002. Passenger load factor increased 1.5 percentage points
to 63.9% during 2003 as compared to 2002. Passenger yield increased 3.6%, and



combined with the increase in traffic, resulted in an increase in passenger
revenue of $48.4 million, or 12.3%.

Other-net revenues decreased $4.2 million, or 20.3%, primarily due to
manufacturer payments received in 2002 as compensation for delays in the
delivery of CRJ 700 aircraft, which did not recur in 2003.

Horizon Air Expenses

For the twelve months ending December 31, 2003, operating expenses increased
$23.1 million, or 5.3%, as compared to the same period in 2002. This increase
is due largely to a 5.8% increase in ASMs combined with higher wages and
benefits, aircraft maintenance, landing fees and other rental costs. Operating
expenses per ASM excluding fuel decreased 1.2% as compared to the same period
in 2002 from 15.99 cents to 15.80 cents in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Explanations of significant period-over-period changes in the components of
operating expenses are as follows:



We expect landing fees and other rentals to continue to increase as a
result of airport facility expansions and increased costs for security.

•

Other expense decreased $6.1 million, or 12.5%, primarily
reflecting a decrease in insurance costs. Insurance expense decreases
are a reflection of several factors including a $1.3 million insurance
reimbursement received during the latter part of 2003 resulting from
clarification of an Air Group insurance liability, lower cost coverage
from government aviation war risk insurance programs and competitive
pressures in the aviation war risk insurance market. However,
aviation insurance remains substantially higher than before September
11, 2001.

Consolidated Nonoperating Income (Expense

)

Net nonoperating items were $12.9 million expense in 2002 compared to $40.1
million income in 2003. The 2003 results include $71.4 million ($52.8 million
for Alaska and $18.6 million for Horizon) received in connection with the
government reimbursement of security fees remitted and carrier fees paid under
the Act. Interest income decreased $8.4 million due principally to lower
interest rates and an adjustment of premium and discount amortization on our
marketable securities portfolio. Interest expense (net of capitalized
interest) increased $1.9 million, due primarily to increases in debt resulting
from the completion of a private placement of $150.0 million of floating rate
senior convertible notes in the first quarter of 2003. See discussion at Note
4, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other-net includes $6.4 million in gains and $1.7 million in losses resulting
from hedge ineffectiveness on fuel hedging contracts in 2002 and 2003,
respectively. In 2003, we received an insurance recovery of $3.1 million in
connection with legal fees associated with the U.S. Attorney investigation in
Oakland. In 2002, we received a $1.4 million insurance recovery and a $0.9
million gain on conversion of Equant N.V. shares (a telecommunications network
company owned by many airlines).

2002 Compared with 2001

The consolidated loss before accounting change for 2002 was $67.2 million, or
$2.53 per share compared with a loss of $43.4 million, or $1.64 per share in
2001. The consolidated operating loss was $88.9 million in 2002 compared with
an operating loss of $126.3 million in 2001. Consolidated results in 2001 and
2002 include $81.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, of government
compensation recognized resulting from the Stabilization Act. Consolidated
results for 2002 include a $51.4 million charge in connection with the
write-off of all of our goodwill. (See Note 15 to Consolidated Financial
Statements.) Financial and statistical data for Alaska and Horizon are shown
in Item 6. A discussion of this data follows.

Alaska Airlines Revenues

Operating revenue increased 3.7% during 2002 as compared to 2001. Available
seat miles increased during each quarter of 2002 as compared to 2001 due to the
addition of service to five cities (Calgary, Boston, Denver, Newark and Miami)
and due to the negative impact of the terrorist attacks on 4th quarter 2001
capacity. For the full year 2002, capacity was up 8.0% while revenue passenger
miles increased at a slightly lower rate (7.6%), resulting in a 0.3 point
decrease in passenger load factor. In our largest market, Southern California,
capacity was slightly higher



in 2002 compared to 2001, and traffic was slightly
lower, resulting in a decrease in load factor of
1.1 points. Capacity and traffic gains experienced in the last two quarters in
this market were offset by decreases in the first two quarters. In our second
largest market, Anchorage/Fairbanks to the U.S. mainland, both capacity and
traffic increased when compared to 2001; traffic increased at a higher rate
than capacity, resulting in an increase in load factor of 1.8 points for the
year. The average load factor for our newest five cities was better than the
system average.

Yield per passenger mile was down in each quarter of the year: 5.0% in the
first quarter, 2.5% in the second quarter, 3.9% in the third quarter and 3.0%
in the fourth quarter. The decrease in passenger yield was due to a
combination of fewer business passengers, a drop off in demand due to the
events of September 11, fare sales offered to stimulate demand, and the sagging
economy. For the full year 2002, yields were down 3.6%. The higher traffic
combined with the lower yield resulted in a 3.7% increase in passenger revenue.

Freight and mail revenues decreased 7.8%. After September 11, new security
measures had a negative impact on our freight and mail volumes, resulting in a
negative impact on revenues.

Other-net revenues increased 20.7%, largely due to increased revenue from the
sale of miles in Alaska’s frequent flyer program, and redemption of miles on
partner airlines. (Alaska recognizes revenue for the difference between the
funds received for the sale of miles to third parties and the cost of the award
redemptions on partner airlines.)

Alaska Airlines Expenses

Excluding fuel, operating expenses grew by $85.5 million, or 5.5%, as a result
of an 8.0% increase in ASMs and a 2.4% decrease in cost per ASM. The cost per
ASM excluding fuel increased by 0.2% during the first nine months of 2002 when
compared to the same period in 2001, but decreased by 8.9% in the fourth
quarter, primarily due to the impact of the terrorist attacks in 2001.
Explanations of significant year-over-year changes in the components of
operating expenses are as follows:

•

Wages and benefits increased 9.7% due to a 9.5% increase in
average wages and benefits per employee and a 0.3% increase in the
number of employees. The 2002 results include a full year of a pilot
wage increase, which occurred in June 2001, step increases for union
employees, and annual merit raises for management employees.
Additionally, benefits expense significantly increased due to
increases in defined benefit plan costs and increases in health
insurance for all employees.

•

Contracted services increased 6.2%, primarily due to higher rates
for ground handling services and a slightly higher volume of services
due to capacity growth. Increased airport security screening costs
subsequent to September 11, 2001 also contributed to the increase.

•

Aircraft fuel expense decreased 4.6% due to a 9.9% decrease in
the cost per gallon of fuel, offset by a 5.8% increase in gallons
consumed. Fuel consumption rate per flight hour decreased slightly by
0.1%. The lower fuel prices saved $28.1 million.



Horizon Air Revenues

For the year 2002, capacity was up 13.0% and traffic was up 12.1%, resulting in
a 0.4 point decrease in passenger load factor. Passenger yields were down
10.4% in the first quarter, down 11.6% in the second quarter, down 7.0% in the
third quarter and down 3.7% in the fourth quarter due to a reduction in
business passengers and the economic downturn. For the full year 2002, yields
were down 8.6%. The increased traffic combined with the lower yield resulted
in a 2.5% increase in passenger revenue.

Freight and mail revenues decreased 38.3%. In June 2001, Horizon ceased
carrying general freight in order to focus on carrying higher-yield small
packages. This change, along with the impact of the September 11 terrorist
attacks, led to the decline in revenues. Other-net revenues increased 2.0%,
primarily due to manufacturer support received as compensation for delays in
delivery of CRJ 700 aircraft.



Horizon Air Expenses

Cost per ASM decreased 14.4% as a result of a 13.0% increase in ASMs combined
with a $13.1 million, or 3.3%, decrease in operating expenses, excluding fuel
and special charge. Unit costs in 2001 were adversely impacted by the capacity
reductions that resulted from the September 11 terrorist attacks.
Additionally, Horizon’s expenses in 2001 were adversely impacted by the delay
in the delivery of CRJ 700 aircraft from January 2001 to July 2001.
Explanations of significant year-over-year changes in the components of
operating expenses are as follows:



Consolidated Nonoperating Income (Expense)

Net nonoperating loss was $12.9 million in 2002 compared to nonoperating income
of $62.8 million in 2001. The $75.7 million decrease was primarily due to U.S.
government compensation of $81.4 million recognized in 2001 compared to $0.5
million in 2002.

In 2001, Alaska and Horizon recognized $71.6 million and $9.8 million,
respectively of U.S. government compensation. During the third quarter of
2002, the DOT completed its review procedures and remitted final compensation
payments to Alaska and Horizon of $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Interest expense, net of capitalized interest, totaled $36.8 million in 2001,
which compares to $43.6 million in 2002.

Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change

Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Under this
statement, goodwill is no longer amortized, but instead is tested for
impairment on a minimum of an annual basis. During the second quarter of 2002,
we completed the first step of our impairment test related to our $51.4 million
of goodwill. The test was performed using Alaska and Horizon as separate
reporting units. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we completed the second step
of our impairment test and determined that all of our goodwill was impaired.
As a result, we recorded a one-time, non-cash charge, effective January 1,
2002, of $51.4 million ($12.5 million Alaska and $38.9 million Horizon) to
write-off all of our goodwill. This charge is reflected as a cumulative effect
of accounting change in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2002.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial position and results of operations
is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The
preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and
judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations. See
Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our
significant accounting policies. Critical accounting estimates are defined as
those that are reflective of significant judgment and uncertainties, and
potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions
and conditions. We have identified the following critical accounting
estimates. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosure of
these policies with our audit committee.

Mileage Plan

We have a loyalty program that awards miles to passengers who fly on Alaska or
Horizon and our travel partners. Additionally, we sell miles to third parties,
such as our credit card partner, for cash. In either case, the outstanding
miles may be redeemed for travel on Alaska, Horizon, or any of our alliance
partners. We have an obligation to provide this future travel; therefore, for
awards earned by passengers who fly on Alaska, Horizon or our travel partners,
we recognize a liability and the corresponding expense for this future
obligation. For miles sold to third parties, a majority of the sales proceeds
are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized when the award transportation
is provided. The deferred proceeds are recognized as passenger revenue when
awards are issued on Alaska, and as other-net revenue for awards issued on
other airlines.



At December 31, 2003, we had approximately 75 billion miles outstanding,
resulting in an aggregate liability of $336 million. The liability is computed
based on several assumptions that require significant management judgment to
estimate and formulate. There are uncertainties inherent in estimates;
therefore, an incorrect assumption impacts the amount and/or timing of revenue
recognition or Mileage Plan expenses. The most significant assumptions in
accounting for the Mileage Plan are described below.

1.

The number of miles that will not be redeemed for travel:

Members may not reach the mileage threshold necessary for a free ticket and
outstanding miles may not always be redeemed for travel. Therefore, based on
the number of Mileage Plan accounts and the miles in the accounts, we
estimate how many miles will never be used (“breakage”), and do not record a
liability for those miles. Our estimates of breakage consider activity in
our members accounts, account balances, and other factors. We believe our
breakage assumptions are reasonable. A hypothetical 1.0% change in our
estimate of breakage has approximately a $3.8 million affect on the
liability. However, actual breakage could differ significantly from our
estimates given the dynamic nature of the program and our inability to
predict our member’s future behavior.

2.

The number of miles used per award (i.e., free ticket):

We estimate how many miles will be used per award. If actual miles used are
more or less than estimated, we may need to adjust the liability and
corresponding expense. Our estimates are based on the current requirements
in our Mileage Plan program and historical redemptions on Alaska, Horizon or
other airlines.

3.

The costs which will be incurred to carry the passenger:

When the frequent flyer travels on his or her award ticket, incremental costs
such as food, fuel and insurance are incurred to carry that passenger. We
estimate what these costs (excluding any contribution to overhead and profit)
will be and accrue a liability. If the passenger travels on another airline
on an award ticket, we often must pay the other airline for carrying the
passenger. The other airline costs are based on negotiated agreements and
are often substantially higher than the costs we would incur to carry that
passenger. We estimate how much we will pay to other airlines for future
travel awards based on historical redemptions and settlements with other
carriers and accrue a liability accordingly. The costs actually incurred by
us or paid to other airlines may be higher or lower than the costs that were
estimated and accrued, we may need to adjust our liability and corresponding
expense.

4.

Redemption on Alaska or Horizon versus other airlines:

The cost for Alaska or Horizon to carry an award passenger is typically lower
than the cost we will pay to other airlines. We estimate the number of
awards which will be redeemed on Alaska or Horizon versus other airlines and
accrue the costs on this based on our estimate of historical redemption
patterns. If the number of awards redeemed on other airlines is higher or
lower than estimated, we may need to adjust our liability and corresponding
expense.

We review all Mileage Plan estimates each quarter, and change our assumptions
if facts and circumstances indicate that a change is necessary. Any such
change in assumptions could have a significant effect on our financial position
and results of operations.



Pension Plans

We account for the defined benefit pension plans using SFAS No. 87, “Employer’s
Accounting for Pensions.” Under SFAS No. 87, pension expense is recognized on
an accrual basis over employees’ approximate service periods. Pension expense
calculated under SFAS No. 87 is generally independent of funding decisions or
requirements. We recognized expense for our defined benefit pension plans of
$20.0 million, $40.0 million and $73.5 million in 2001, 2002 and 2003,
respectively.

The calculation of pension expense and the corresponding liability requires
the use of a number of important assumptions, including the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Changes in these
assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future
actual experience can differ from these assumptions. At December 31, 2003, the
fair value of our pension plan assets totaled $529.5 million. We anticipate
making a cash contribution of approximately $49.0 million during 2004.

Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on pension plan assets
decreases. At December 31, 2003, we estimate that the pension plan assets will
generate a long-term rate of return of 8.0%. This rate is equal to the assumed
rate of 8.0% used at December 31, 2002, and was developed by evaluating input
from consultants and economists as well as long-term inflation assumptions. We
regularly review the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance
investments as considered appropriate. This expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets at December 31, 2003 is based on an allocation of U.S. equities
and U.S. fixed income securities. Decreasing the expected long-term rate of
return by 0.5% (from 8.0% to 7.5%) would increase our estimated 2004 pension
expense by approximately $2.7 million.

Pension liability and future pension expense increase as the discount rate is
reduced. We discounted future pension obligations using a rate of 6.75% and
6.00% at December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively. The discount rate is
determined based on the current rates earned on high quality long-term bonds.
Decreasing the discount rate by 0.5% (from 6.00% to 5.50%) would increase our
accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2003 by approximately $51.0
million and increase estimated 2004 pension expense by approximately $9.8
million.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other
factors related to the participants in our pension plans will impact our future
pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict what these factors will be
in the future.

Long-lived Assets

As of December 31, 2003, we had approximately $1.9 billion of property and
equipment and related assets. In accounting for these long-lived assets, we
make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected
residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the
fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate. Factors indicating
potential impairment include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in
the market value of the long-lived assets, a significant change in the
long-lived assets condition, and operating cash flow losses associated with the
use of the long-lived asset. Due to the events of September 11 and the impact
on the airline industry, in 2001 we evaluated whether the book



value of our
aircraft was impaired in accordance with SFAS No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of.”
We performed
an impairment test, as required by SFAS No. 121, which was based on the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows to be generated by our aircraft.
Based on this test, we determined that the Horizon Fokker F-28 fleet was
impaired, and a write-down of $10.2 million was taken against the book value of
those aircraft and related spare parts.

In 2002 and 2003, due to volatile economic conditions and indications of
declining aircraft market values, we evaluated whether the book value of our
aircraft was impaired in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” (This statement supercedes SFAS
No. 121.) No impairment was necessary based on the results of the evaluations.

There is inherent risk in estimating the future cash flows used in the
impairment test. If cash flows do not materialize as estimated, there is a
risk the impairment charges recognized to date may be inaccurate, or further
impairment charges may be necessary in the future.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The table below presents the major indicators of financial condition and
liquidity.

December 31, 2002

December 31, 2003

Change

(In millions, except debt-to-capital and per-share amounts)

Cash and marketable securities

$

635.8

$

812.3

$

176.5

Working capital

176.4

130.9

(45.5

)

Long-term debt and
Long-term capital lease obligations

856.7

906.9

50.2

Shareholders’ equity

655.7

674.2

18.5

Book value per common share

$

24.68

$

25.19

$

0.51

Long-term Debt-to-capital

57%:43

%

57%:43

%

NA

Long-term Debt-to-capital assuming aircraft
operating leases are capitalized
at seven times annualized rent

77%:23

%

77%:23

%

NA

We plan to meet our capital and operating commitments through cash and
marketable securities on hand at December 31, 2003 totaling $812.3 million and
internally generated funds from operations. We also have restricted cash of
$18.4 million, which is intended to collateralize interest payments made on our
$150.0 million floating rate senior convertible notes due 2023 issued in 2003.

During the year ended 2003, our cash and marketable securities increased $176.5
million to $812.3 million at December 31, 2003. This increase primarily
reflects cash provided by operating activities of $355.2 million and cash
provided by financing activities of $206.8 million, partially offset by cash
used for the purchase of property and equipment of $350.7 million and $33.5
million paid for restricted deposits and other.

Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $355.2 million in 2003, compared
to $124.5 million in 2002 and $286.5 million in 2001. Significant cash flows
in 2003 included the receipt of $71.4



million ($52.8 million for Alaska and
$18.6 million for Horizon) from the government under the Emergency Wartime
Supplemental Appropriations Act in May 2003 and our payment of $40 million to
fund our defined benefit plans. The increase in cash flows from 2002 to 2003
also
resulted from a reduction in our net loss from 2002. Other contributing
factors to our operating cash flow include year over year increases in air
traffic liabilities and other current liabilities. Cash flows from operations
in 2001 include the receipt of $79.9 million in U.S. government cash
compensation received under the Air Transportation and Safety and System
Stabilization Act.

Cash Used in Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities was $638.1 million in 2003 compared to $361.4
million in 2002 and $218.2 million in 2001. In 2003, we had net purchases of
$253.9 million of marketable securities and $350.7 million for property and
equipment. Our aircraft related capital expenditures increased $177.6 million
over 2002, primarily reflecting additional aircraft added to Alaska’s and
Horizon’s operating fleet including six 737-700s, five 737-900s and two
Bombardier CRJ 700s.

Cash Provided by Financing Activities

In 2003 we completed the private placement of $150.0 million of floating rate
senior convertible notes due in 2023 pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended. Net proceeds from the offering were $144.9 million,
of which $18.4 is restricted to fund three years worth of interest payments.
Proceeds from the notes were used to provide working capital for our
operations. In 2001, Alaska borrowed $150 million, payable on or before
December 31, 2004, under its credit facility, the majority of which was added
to cash and short-term investments to provide future operating capital.

Additionally, debt issuances of $129.5 million, $58.0 million and $234.5
million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, were secured by the related
flight equipment, including the purchase of four, one and eight new Boeing
aircraft in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and one used Boeing 737 aircraft
in 2001. The 2003 debt issuances have interest rates that vary with the London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and payment terms ranging from 12 to 15 years.
During 2002, Horizon added three Dash 8-400 and seven CRJ 700 aircraft to its
operating fleet. The aircraft were financed with a combination of U.S.
leveraged leases and single investor leases with terms of approximately 16
years.

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2003, we had firm orders for 15 aircraft requiring aggregate
payments of approximately $361 million, as set forth below. In addition,
Alaska has options to acquire 26 additional B737s, and Horizon has options to
acquire 15 Q400s and 25 CRJ 700s. Alaska and Horizon expect to finance the new
aircraft with leases, long-term debt or internally generated cash. During the
second quarter of 2003, Alaska deferred the delivery of two Boeing 737-900’s
from 2004 to 2005. During November 2003, Horizon reached an agreement with
Bombardier to reschedule the delivery of four CRJ-700’s in 2004 and six
CRJ-700’s in 2005 to two CRJ-700 deliveries per year beginning in 2005. In
addition, Horizon converted two 2004 firm orders for CRJ-700’s to Q400’s. The
following table summarizes aircraft deliveries and payments by year:



Delivery Period - Firm Orders

Beyond

Aircraft







Total

Boeing 737-900



—

—

—

—


Bombardier CRJ700

—







Bombardier Q400


—

—

—

—

—


Total








Payments (Millions)

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Alaska is party to a purchase agreement with an aircraft manufacturer. Under
the agreement, upon commitment to purchase the aircraft, Alaska must make
deposits to the manufacturer for a portion of the purchase price of the
aircraft, with the remainder of the purchase price due at delivery. Concurrent
with this agreement, the manufacturer has an agreement with a Trust wherein the
Trust makes additional periodic pre-delivery deposits to the manufacturer for
the aircraft. Under certain specified events, including default by the Trust,
Alaska may be required to pay the manufacturer the amounts to be paid by the
Trust in order to retain the right to purchase the aircraft. Alaska makes
monthly payments to the Trust related to the advances made by the Trust to the
manufacturer, which payments are capitalized as part of the aircraft cost. The
Trust is reimbursed for its advances on or before the delivery of the
applicable aircraft. As of December 31, 2003, Alaska’s obligations relating to
such advances equaled approximately $11.6 million which will be paid in 2004.
This amount is included as an aircraft purchase commitment in the summary of
contractual obligations below.

The following table provides a summary of our current and long-term debt
obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease commitments and
aircraft purchase commitments as of December 31, 2003. This table excludes
other obligations that we may have, such as pension obligations (discussed in
Note 7 to Consolidated Financial Statements) and routine purchase obligations
entered into in the normal course of business.

Beyond

(in millions)







Total

Current and long-term debt

$

198.6

$

45.9

$

49.1

$

51.9

$

54.9

$

704.7

$

1,105.1

Capital lease obligations

1.8

—

—

—

—

—

1.8

Operating lease commitments

274.7

267.5

216.2

179.7

177.4

1,095.3

2,210.8

Aircraft purchase commitments

83.4

96.6

45.2

48.3

49.6

37.5

360.6

Total

$

558.5

$

410.0

$

310.5

$

279.9

$

281.9

$

1,837.5

$

3,678.3

As described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 2004
capital lease obligation recorded on our balance sheet primarily represents the
end of lease buyouts of two airplanes totaling $6.2 million. In January 2004,
subsequent to year end, these leases were renegotiated and will be reflected as
operating leases in future periods. The table above excludes the capital lease
obligation recorded at December 31, 2003 related to the two aircraft.



Our $150 million credit facility expires and is due in December 2004.
Management is considering various alternatives including renewing or replacing
the credit facility although there can be no assurance that this can be
accomplished on acceptable terms to the Company.

Management also intends to make funding payments to our defined benefit plans
during 2004 totaling $49 million.

Our credit facility and certain loan agreements contain provisions that require
maintenance of specific levels of net worth, leverage and fixed charge
coverage, and limit investments, lease obligations, sales of assets, and
additional indebtedness. At December 31, 2003, we were in compliance with all
loan provisions.

New Accounting Standards

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.”
FIN 46, as amended by FIN 46 (Revised) in December 2003, requires consolidation
of certain types of entities in which the Company absorbs a majority of the
entity’s expected losses, receives a majority of the entity’s expected returns,
or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in
the entity. These entities are called “variable interest entities.” The
principal characteristics of variable interest entities are (1) an insufficient
amount of equity to absorb the entity’s expected losses, (2) equity owners as a
group are not able to make decisions about the entity’s activities, and (3)
equity that does not absorb the entity’s losses or receive the entity’s
residual returns. Variable interests are contractual, ownership or other
monetary interests in an entity that change with fluctuations in the entity’s
net asset value. As a result, variable interest entities can arise from items
such as lease agreements, loan arrangements, guarantees or service contracts.

If an entity is determined to be a variable interest entity, the entity must be
consolidated by the “primary beneficiary”. The primary beneficiary is the
holder of the variable interests that absorbs a majority of the variable
interest entity’s expected losses or receives a majority of the entity’s
residual returns in the event no holder has a majority of the expected losses.
There is no primary beneficiary in cases where no single holder absorbs the
majority of the expected losses or receives a majority of the residual returns.
The determination of the primary beneficiary is based on qualitative aspects
of the arrangements involved or projected cash flows at the inception of the
transaction with the variable interests entity.

FIN 46 is applicable to financial statements of companies that have interests
in “special purpose entities”, as defined, during the year ended 2003.

We are the lessee in a series of operating leases covering our leased aircraft.
In many instances, the lessors are trusts established by a third party
specifically to purchase, finance and lease aircraft to us. These leasing
entities meet the criteria for variable interest entities. However, they do
not meet the consolidation requirements of FIN 46 because we are not the
primary beneficiary of the entity’s expected gains or losses. Our conclusions
are based on the fact that the leasing arrangements involved contain terms
which are consistent with market terms at the inception of the lease and do not
include residual value guarantees made by us, fixed-price purchase obligations
or similar features that obligate us to absorb the majority of expected losses
of the



variable interest entities. Our maximum exposure under these types of
lease arrangements is the
remaining lease payments, which are reflected in future lease commitments in
Note 5 (plus the cost, if any, of bringing the equipment into compliance with
the physical condition required for return).

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation-Transition and Disclosure”. SFAS No. 148 amends the transition
and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 148 allowed companies
adopting the fair value based method of SFAS No. 123 to utilize one of three
alternative transition methods as long as SFAS No. 123 was adopted in a fiscal
year beginning prior to December 16, 2003. To date, the Company has not
adopted SFAS No. 123 and would therefore be required to use on of two methods
proscribed by SFAS No. 148 if it adopted SFAS No. 123 in the future. The FASB
currently is working on a project to develop a new standard for accounting for
stock-based compensation and expects to issue a final standard in the second
half of 2004.

In September 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants released a Draft Statement of
Position entitled “Accounting for Certain Costs and Activities Related to
Property, Plant, and Equipment” (Draft SOP). The Draft SOP, which is expected
to be issued in its final form in first quarter 2004, would become effective
for the Company January 1, 2005. The primary areas of applicability of the
Draft SOP to the Company are in the areas of planned major maintenance
activities (airframe and engine overhauls) and component accounting.

As discussed in “Property, Equipment and Depreciation,” the Company currently
capitalizes costs related to major airframe and engine overhauls and amortizes
those costs to maintenance expense over the shorter of the life of the overhaul
or the remaining lease term. In the Draft SOP, these costs would be considered
a planned major maintenance activities and, as such, would be expensed as
incurred.

Effect of Inflation

- Inflation and price changes other than for aircraft fuel
do not have a significant effect on our operating revenues, operating expenses
and operating income.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have interest rate risk in our floating rate debt obligations and our
available for sale marketable investment portfolio, and commodity price risk in
jet fuel required to operate our aircraft fleet. We purchase jet fuel at
prevailing market prices, and seek to manage market risk through execution of a
documented hedging strategy. We have market sensitive instruments in the form
of fixed rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to
hedge our exposure to jet fuel price increases. We do not purchase or hold any
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Fuel Hedging

We utilize our fuel hedges as a form of insurance against significant increases
in fuel prices. We believe there is significant risk in not hedging against the
possibility of such fuel price increases. At December 31, 2003, we had fuel
hedge contracts in place to hedge 132.1 million gallons of our expected jet
fuel usage in 2004, 116.1 million gallons in 2005 and 10.2 million gallons in
2006. This



represents 33%, 28% and 2% of our anticipated fuel consumption in
2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Prices of these agreements range from $26 to
$28 per barrel. A hypothetical 10%
increase in jet fuel prices would increase 2004 fuel expense by approximately
$33.3 million. A hypothetical 10% decrease in jet fuel prices would decrease
2004 fuel expense by approximately $34.0 million. This analysis includes the
effect of the fuel hedging contracts in place at December 31, 2003. Currently,
a one-cent change in the fuel price per gallon affects annual fuel costs by
approximately $3.9 million. We utilize financial derivative instruments as
hedges to decrease our exposure to jet fuel price changes. We account for our
fuel hedge derivative instruments as cash flow hedges as defined by SFAS No.
133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as
amended. All changes in fair value that are considered to be effective hedges
are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the
underlying jet fuel is consumed.

As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, the fair values of our fuel hedge positions
were $17.4 million and $18.4 million, respectively. All of the 2002 fair value
amounts and $12.0 million of the 2003 fair value amounts are included in
prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
The remaining 2003 fair value amount of $6.4 million is reflected in other
assets in the consolidated balance sheets.

During 2002 and 2003, we recognized $12.1 million and $29.4 million,
respectively, in realized hedging gains. These amounts are reflected in
aircraft fuel in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Hedge ineffectiveness resulted in nonoperating expense of $7.4 million for
2001, nonoperating income of $6.4 million for 2002 and nonoperating income of
$1.7 million for 2003. These amounts are recorded as non-operating income
(expense) in other-net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In 2002 and 2003, we recorded a net gain of $10.1 million and a net loss of
$1.2 million, net of tax, in other comprehensive income (loss). These amounts
include the change in effectiveness as related to the change in fair market
value for future derivative hedge instruments and the removal of the effective
portion of derivative hedge instruments that matured during 2002 and 2003.

Financial Market Risk

We have exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates
related primarily to our debt obligations and short-term investment portfolio.
Our debt obligations include variable rates, which have exposure to changes in
interest rates. A hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates
incurred on variable rate debt during 2003 would correspondingly change our net
earnings and cash flows associated with these items by approximately $3.6
million.

During 2003, we issued $129.5 million ($65.0 million in the second quarter of
2003, $32.0 million in the third quarter of 2003, and $32.5 million in the
fourth quarter of 2003) of debt secured by flight equipment, having interest
rates that vary with LIBOR and payment terms ranging from 12 to 15 years.



On March 21, 2003, we completed the private placement of $150.0 million of
floating rate senior convertible notes due in 2023. Net proceeds from the
offering were $144.9 million, of which $18.4 million is restricted to fund
interest payments for the first three years and is reported as restricted
 cash ($7.2 million recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets and
$11.2 million in other assets) in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as
of December 31, 2003. See Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional discussion of this offering transaction.

We also have investments in marketable securities, which are exposed to market
risk associated with changes in interest rates. If short-term interest rates
were to average 1% more than they did in 2003, interest income would increase
by 50 basis points.



ITEM 8.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Item 15.

Selected Unaudited Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (in millions,
except per share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

2002(a)



2003(b)




2003(c)

(in millions, except per share)

Operating revenues

$

500.1

$

518.7

$

575.7

$

610.6

$

620.6

$

702.2

$

527.7

$

613.3

Operating income (loss)

(49.6

)

(78.6

)

(5.0

)

4.0

25.5

78.8

(59.8

)

(15.3

)

Income (loss) before
accounting change

(33.7

)

(56.3

)

(2.9

)

45.2

12.5

40.7

(43.1

)

(16.1

)

Net income (loss)

(85.1

)

(56.3

)

(2.9

)

45.2

12.5

40.7

(43.1

)

(16.1

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share:

Income (loss) before
accounting change

(1.27

)

(2.12

)

(0.11

)

1.70

0.47

1.53

(1.62

)

(0.60

)

Net income (loss)

(3.21

)

(2.12

)

(0.11

)

1.70

0.47

1.53

(1.62

)

(0.60

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:

Income (loss) before
accounting change

(1.27

)

(2.12

)

(0.11

)

1.70

0.47

1.52

(1.62

)

(0.60

)

Net income (loss)

(3.21

)

(2.12

)

(0.11

)

1.70

0.47

1.52

(1.62

)

(0.60

)

(a)

Net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2002 includes $51.4 million
cumulative effect of the accounting change in connection with the
impairment of goodwill.

(b)

Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2003 includes $71.4
million (pretax) received related to assistance from the government under
the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act.

(c)

Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2003 includes
adjustments to increase operating expenses by $2.8 million (pretax)
related to prior years. Operating loss for the three months ended
December 31, 2003 also includes adjustments to increase operating expenses
by $1.8 million (pretax) and increase operating revenues by $6.3 million
(pretax), both related to previous quarters in 2003. In addition,
interest income for the 2003 year includes an adjustment recorded in the
first quarter that reduced interest income by $2.8 million (pretax)
related to the previous year. Management does not believe that these
amounts are material to the periods affected.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As of December 31, 2003, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer (collectively, our “certifying officers”), of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures. These disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure
that the information required to be disclosed by us in our periodic reports
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the
SEC’s rules and forms, and that the information is communicated to our
certifying officers on a timely basis.

Our certifying officers concluded, based on their evaluation, that disclosure
controls and procedures were effective.

As discussed in our Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 27,
2004,subsequent to our January 28, 2004 press release summarizing our fourth
quarter and full year 2003 financial results, further review of the Mileage
Plan liability and related deferred revenue as of December 31, 2003



revealed that these amounts had not been fully adjusted to reflect planned deletions of
certain accounts with expired miles. The consequent adjustment to reduce the total
Mileage Plan liability and deferred revenue estimate from $344.4 million to
$336.0 million resulted in an $8.4 million (pretax) increase in total revenues
for the fourth quarter and full year which is reflected in the consolidated
financial statements included herein. This resulted from a deficiency in the
application of computer system change control procedures, which did not
identify a mileage plan coding error nor was the error discovered in the normal
account review process. Management believes that controls are now in place to
ensure that expired miles are deleted appropriately.

We made no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the
fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003, that our certifying officers concluded
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially effect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

We intend to regularly review and evaluate the design and effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial
reporting on an ongoing basis and to improve
these controls and procedures over time and to correct any deficiencies that we
may discover in the future. While we believe the present design of our
disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial
reporting are effective, future events affecting our business may cause us to
modify our these controls and procedures in the future.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

See “Election of Directors,” incorporated herein by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 18, 2004. See “Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part I
following Item 4 for information relating to executive officers.

Code of Ethics

We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to our principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and persons
performing similar functions. A Code of Ethics is a set of written standards
that are reasonably designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote:

The Code of Ethics is located on our internet website at www.alaskaair.com
under “Company Info — Investor Information — Corporate Governance.” We
intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 10 of Form 8-K
regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of our Code of Ethics
that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial



officer, principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions that
relates to any element of the Code of Ethics definition enumerated above by posting such
information on the Corporate Governance portion of our internet website.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See “Executive Compensation,” incorporated herein by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 18, 2004.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and
“Equity Compensation Plan Information,” incorporated herein by reference from
the definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 18, 2004.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” incorporated herein by
reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 18, 2004.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

Page(s)

(a) Consolidated Financial Statements:

Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (Unaudited)


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and 2003

56-57

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

61-77

Independent Auditors’ Report


Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,
for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003


See Exhibit Index on page 80.

(b) During the fourth quarter of 2003, we filed or furnished the following
reports on Form 8-K:

October 6, 2003:

Item 9. “Regulation FD Disclosure”. No financial statements
were filed with the report, which included monthly performance and projected
data for 2003.

October 21, 2003:

Item 7. “Financial Statements and Exhibits” and Item 9.
“Regulation FD Disclosure”

November 18, 2003:

Item 9. “Regulation FD Disclosure”. No financial
statements were filed with the report, which included monthly performance and
projected data for 2003.

December 19, 2003:

Item 9. “Regulation FD Disclosure”. No financial
statements were filed with the report, which included monthly performance and
projected data for 2003.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

By: /s/ William S. Ayer

Date: March 10, 2004

William S. Ayer,

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on March 10, 2004 on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

/s/ William S. Ayer

William S. Ayer

Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

/s/ Bradley D. Tilden

Bradley D. Tilden

Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ Brandon S. Pedersen

Brandon S. Pedersen

Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ Phyllis J. Campbell

Phyllis J. Campbell

Director

/s/ Ronald F. Cosgrave

Ronald F. Cosgrave

Director

/s/ Mark R. Hamilton

Mark R. Hamilton

Director

/s/ Bruce R. Kennedy

Bruce R. Kennedy

Director

/s/ Jessie J. Knight, Jr.

Jessie J. Knight, Jr.

Director

/s/ R. Marc Langland

R. Marc Langland

Director

/s/ Dennis F. Madsen

Dennis F. Madsen

Director

/s/ Byron I. Mallott

Byron I. Mallott

Director

/s/ John V. Rindlaub

John V. Rindlaub

Director

/s/ J. Kenneth Thompson

J. Kenneth Thompson

Director

/s/ Richard A. Wien

Richard A. Wien

Director



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

ASSETS

As of December 31 (In Millions)



Current Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

269.0

$

192.9

Marketable securities

366.8

619.4

Receivables — less allowance for doubtful
accounts (2002 - $2.3; 2003 - $1.7)

125.4

120.7

Inventories and supplies — net

49.9

45.8

Deferred income taxes

61.2

90.6

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

82.0

78.9

Total Current Assets

954.3

1,148.3

Property and Equipment

Flight equipment

2,088.4

2,327.6

Other property and equipment

430.9

464.2

Deposits for future flight equipment

93.5

78.1

2,612.8

2,869.9

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

811.4

920.7

Total Property and Equipment — Net

1,801.4

1,949.2

Intangible Assets

50.9

45.6

Other Assets

74.1

116.1

Total Assets

$

2,880.7

$

3,259.2

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

As of December 31 (In Millions)



Current Liabilities

Accounts payable

$

132.1

$

132.9

Accrued aircraft rent

76.0

75.6

Accrued wages, vacation and payroll taxes

87.4

92.7

Other accrued liabilities

222.2

271.8

Air traffic liability

211.6

237.7

Current portion of long-term debt and
capital lease obligations

48.6

206.7

Total Current Liabilities

777.9

1,017.4

Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations, Net of Current

856.7

906.9

Other Liabilities and Credits

Deferred income taxes

157.2

192.0

Deferred revenue

232.0

252.4

Other liabilities

201.2

216.3

590.4

660.7

Commitments and Contingencies

Shareholders’ Equity

Preferred stock, $1 par value

Authorized: 5,000,000 shares

—

—

Common stock, $1 par value

Authorized: 100,000,000 shares

Issued: 2002 - 29,309,726 shares

2003 - 29,474,919 shares

29.3

29.5

Capital in excess of par value

483.3

486.3

Treasury stock, at cost: 2002 - 2,736,287 shares

2003 - 2,712,979 shares

(62.5

)

(61.9

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(80.2

)

(79.0

)

Retained earnings

285.8

299.3

655.7

674.2

Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity

$

2,880.7

$

3,259.2

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Year Ended December 31

(In Millions Except Per Share Amounts)




Operating Revenues

Passenger

$

1,972.4

$

2,037.7

$

2,243.0

Freight and mail

86.3

77.1

82.3

Other — net

94.1

109.3

119.5

Total Operating Revenues

2,152.8

2,224.1

2,444.8

Operating Expenses

Wages and benefits

795.5

858.1

937.9

Employee profit sharing

—

—

3.7

Contracted services

86.7

93.0

100.1

Aircraft fuel

324.3

302.0

356.9

Aircraft maintenance

181.3

170.2

183.8

Aircraft rent

186.0

190.4

194.9

Food and beverage service

58.3

66.2

61.0

Other selling expenses and commissions

185.1

159.9

133.2

Depreciation and amortization

134.1

132.5

133.0

Loss on sale of assets

4.7

0.1

2.2

Landing fees and other rentals

128.2

140.3

164.9

Other

184.7

200.3

184.3

Special charge

10.2

—

—

Total Operating Expenses

2,279.1

2,313.0

2,455.9

Operating Loss

(126.3

)

(88.9

)

(11.1

)

Nonoperating Income (Expense)

Interest income

22.2

21.2

12.8

Interest expense

(47.4

)

(46.3

)

(47.8

)

Interest capitalized

10.6

2.7

2.3

U.S. government compensation

81.4

0.5

71.4

Other — net

(4.0

)

9.0

1.4

62.8

(12.9

)

40.1

Income (loss) before income tax and accounting change

(63.5

)

(101.8

)

29.0

Income tax expense (benefit)

(20.1

)

(34.6

)

15.5

Income (loss) before accounting change

(43.4

)

(67.2

)

13.5

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

(51.4

)

—

Net Income (Loss)

$

(43.4

)

$

(118.6

)

$

13.5

Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) Per Share:

Loss before accounting change

$

(1.64

)

$

(2.53

)

$

0.51

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

(1.94

)

—

Net Earnings (Loss) Per Share

$

(1.64

)

$

(4.47

)

$

0.51

Shares used for computation:

Basic

26.499

26.546

26.648

Diluted

26.499

26.546

26.730

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Accumulated

Common

Capital in

Treasury

Other

Shares

Common

Excess of

Stock,

Comprehensive

Retained

(In Millions)

Outstanding

Stock

Par Value

at Cost

Income (Loss)

Earnings

Total

Balances at December 31, 2000

26.457

$

29.2

$

481.2

$

(62.6

)

$

(0.5

)

$

447.8

$

895.1

2001 net loss

(43.4

)

(43.4

)

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Officers supplemental retirement plan
net of $0.4 tax benefit

(0.7

)

(0.7

)

Related to marketable securities:

Change in fair value

3.4

Reclassification to earnings

(3.5

)

Income tax effect

0.0

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Related to fuel hedges:

Change in fair value

(2.1

)

Income tax effect

0.9

(1.2

)

(1.2

)

Total comprehensive loss

(45.4

)

Treasury stock sales

0.003

0.1

0.1

Stock issued under stock plans

0.068

0.1

1.4

1.5

Balances at December 31, 2001

26.528

29.3

482.6

(62.5

)

(2.5

)

404.4

851.3

2002 net loss

(118.6

)

(118.6

)

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Officers supplemental retirement plan
net of $0.4 tax benefit

(0.7

)

(0.7

)

Related to marketable securities:

Change in fair value

(0.4

)

Reclassification to earnings

0.6

Income tax effect

(0.1

)

0.1

0.1

Related to fuel hedges:

Change in fair value

28.2

Reclassification to earnings

(12.1

)

Income tax effect

(6.0

)

10.1

10.1

Minimum pension liability adjustment
net of $52.5 tax benefit

(87.2

)

(87.2

)

Total comprehensive loss

(196.3

)

Treasury stock sales

0.005

—

—

—

Stock issued for employee stock purchase plan

0.024

0.3

0.3

Stock issued under stock plans

0.016

0.4

0.4

Balances at December 31, 2002

26.573

$

29.3

$

483.3

$

(62.5

)

$

(80.2

)

$

285.8

$

655.7

2003 net income

13.5

13.5

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Officers supplemental retirement plan
net of $1.0 tax benefit

(2.0

)

(2.0

)

Related to marketable securities:

Change in fair value

(1.2

)

Reclassification to earnings

(0.1

)

Income tax effect

0.5

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

Related to fuel hedges:

Change in fair value

27.4

Reclassification to earnings

(29.4

)

Income tax effect

0.8

(1.2

)

(1.2

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment
net of $3.3 tax expense

5.2

5.2

Total comprehensive income (loss)

14.7

Treasury stock sales

0.024

—

0.6

0.6

Stock issued for employee stock purchase plan

0.135

0.1

2.3

2.4

Stock issued under stock plans

0.030

0.1

0.7

0.8

Balances at December 31, 2003

26.762

$

29.5

$

486.3

$

(61.9

)

$

(79.0

)

$

299.3

$

674.2

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Year Ended December 31 (In Millions)




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

(43.4

)

$

(118.6

)

$

13.5

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to
net cash provided by operating activities:

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

51.4

—

Special charge

10.2

—

—

Depreciation and amortization

134.1

132.5

133.0

Amortization of airframe and engine overhauls

73.7

62.2

69.2

Changes in derivative fair values

7.4

(6.0

)

2.1

Loss on sale of assets

4.7

0.1

2.2

Increase in deferred income taxes

21.1

30.7

4.4

(Increase) decrease in accounts receivable — net

3.1

(44.4

)

4.8

(Increase) decrease in other current assets

(16.4

)

(26.0

)

0.1

Increase (decrease) in air traffic liability

7.5

(5.6

)

26.1

Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities

53.1

(7.5

)

55.2

Increase in deferred revenue and other-net

31.4

55.7

44.6

Net cash provided by operating activities

286.5

124.5

355.2

Cash flows from investing activities:

Proceeds from disposition of assets

2.5

3.6

3.4

Purchases of marketable securities

(258.5

)

(630.8

)

(942.9

)

Sales and maturities of marketable securities

446.4

433.9

689.0

Property and equipment additions:

Aircraft purchase deposits

(47.5

)

(36.1

)

(38.7

)

Capitalized overhauls

(49.2

)

(65.3

)

(75.2

)

Aircraft

(261.5

)

(40.6

)

(196.5

)

Other flight equipment

(52.2

)

(16.4

)

(25.6

)

Other property

(43.4

)

(42.5

)

(33.2

)

Aircraft deposits returned

63.5

46.5

15.1

Restricted deposits and other

(18.3

)

(13.7

)

(33.5

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(218.2

)

(361.4

)

(638.1

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net

388.8

58.0

274.4

Long-term debt and capital lease payments

(69.2

)

(43.8

)

(71.3

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

1.5

0.9

3.7

Net cash provided by financing activities

321.1

15.1

206.8

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

389.4

(221.8

)

(76.1

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

101.4

490.8

269.0

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

490.8

$

269.0

$

192.9

Supplemental disclosure of cash paid (refunded) during the year for:

Interest (net of amount capitalized)

$

49.9

$

44.7

$

40.4

Income taxes

(18.4

)

(22.8

)

(0.4

)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

December 31, 2003

Note 1

.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization and Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Alaska Air Group,
Inc. (Air Group or the Company) and its subsidiaries, the principal
subsidiaries being Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries,
Inc. (Horizon). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated. These financial statements have been prepared in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
and their preparation requires the use of management’s estimates. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. Certain reclassifications have been
made in prior years’ financial statements to conform to the 2003 presentation.

Nature of Operations

Alaska and Horizon operate as airlines. However, their business plans,
competition, and economic risks differ substantially. Alaska is a major
airline serving primarily Alaska; the U.S. West Coast; five cities on the U.S.
East Coast; Vancouver, Canada; and Mexico. It operates an all jet fleet and
its average passenger trip is 967 miles. Horizon is a regional airline serving
primarily the Pacific Northwest, Northern California, and Western Canada. It
operates both jet and turboprop aircraft, and its average passenger trip is 332
miles. As discussed in Note 16, beginning in 2004, Horizon will operate
regional jet service as Frontier JetExpress.

Substantially all of Alaska’s and Horizon’s sales occur in the United States.
See Note 11 for operating segment information.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities
of three months or less. They are carried at cost, which approximates market.
The Company reduces cash balances when checks are disbursed. Due to the time
delay in checks clearing the banks, the Company normally maintains a negative
cash balance, which is reported as a current liability. The amount of the
negative cash balance was $27.5 million and $27.7 million at December 31, 2002
and 2003, respectively, and is included in accounts payable.

Receivables

Receivables consist primarily of airline traffic (including credit card)
receivables, amounts from customers, mileage plan partners, government tax
authorities, and other miscellaneous amounts due to the Company, and are net of
an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2.3 million at December 31, 2002 and
$1.7 million at December 31, 2003. Management determines the allowance for
doubtful accounts based on known troubled accounts and historical experience
applied to an aging of accounts.

Inventories and Supplies — net

Inventory is comprised of expendable, repairable and rotable flight equipment.
Expendable aircraft parts, materials and supplies are stated at average cost
and are included in inventories and supplies-net. Repairable and Rotable
inventory are included in flight equipment. An obsolescence allowance for
flight equipment expendable parts is accrued based on estimated disposal dates
and salvage values. Surplus inventories are carried at their net realizable
value. The allowance for all non-surplus expendable inventories was $27.0
million at December 31, 2002 and 2003.



Property, Equipment and Depreciation

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated using the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which are as follows:

Aircraft and related flight equipment:

Boeing 737-200C

10-14 years

Boeing 737-400/700/900

20 years

Boeing MD-80

20 years

Bombardier Dash 8 (Rotable spares only)

10 years

Bombardier CRJ 700 (Rotable spares only)

10 years

Buildings

10-30 years

Capitalized leases and
leasehold improvements

Term of lease

Other equipment

3-15 years

Flight equipment includes repairable inventory parts, net of an obsolescence
allowance. As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, this allowance totaled $17.5
million and $17.3 million, respectively.

Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. The costs of major
airframe and engine overhauls are capitalized and amortized to maintenance
expense over the shorter of the life of the overhaul or the remaining lease
term. Major modifications that extend the life or improve the usefulness of
aircraft are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated period of use.
Assets and related obligations for items financed under capital leases are
initially recorded at an amount equal to the present value of the future
minimum lease payments.

The Company reviews for impairment long-lived assets to be held and used
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the total carrying
amount of an asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. The Company groups
assets for purposes of such reviews at the lowest level for which identifiable
cash flows of the asset group are largely independent of the cash flows of
other groups of assets and liabilities. An impairment loss is recognized when
estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the
asset (asset group) and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying
amount. If the asset (asset group) is not considered recoverable, an amount
equal to the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value will be charged
against the asset (asset group) with a corresponding expense reflected in the
consolidated statement of operations.

Internally-Used Software Costs

The Company capitalizes costs to develop internal-use software that are
incurred in the application development stage. Amortization commences when the
software is ready for its intended use and the amortization period is the
estimated useful life of the software. Capitalized costs primarily include
contract labor and payroll costs of the individuals dedicated to the
development of internal use software. The Company capitalized software
development costs of $9.2 million, $6.9 million and $3.2 million during the
years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003, respectively.

Deferred Revenue

Deferred revenue results primarily from the sale of mileage credits, the sale
and leaseback of aircraft, and the receipt of manufacturer or vendor credits.
This revenue is recognized when award transportation is provided or over the
term of the applicable agreements.

Leased Aircraft Return Costs

Cash payments associated with returning leased aircraft are accrued when
probable and estimable. As leased aircraft are returned, any payments are
charged against the established accrual. The accrual is part of other current
and long-term liabilities, and was $14.2 million as of December 31, 2002 and
December 31, 2003.



Revenue Recognition

Passenger revenue is recognized when the passenger travels. Tickets sold but
not yet used are reported as air traffic liability. Freight and mail revenues
are recognized when service is provided. Other-net revenues are primarily
related to the Mileage Plan and they are recognized as described in the
“Frequent Flyer Awards” paragraph below.

Frequent Flyer Awards

Alaska operates a frequent flyer program (“Mileage Plan”) that provides travel
awards to members based on accumulated mileage. For miles earned by flying on
Alaska and through airline partners, the estimated incremental cost of
providing free travel awards is recognized as a selling expense and accrued as
a liability as miles are accumulated. Alaska also sells mileage credits to
non-airline partners such as hotels, car rental agencies, and a major bank that
offers Alaska Airlines affinity credit cards. The Company defers the portion of
the sales proceeds that represents the estimated fair value of the award
transportation and recognizes that amount as revenue when the award
transportation is provided. The deferred proceeds are recognized as passenger
revenue for awards redeemed on Alaska, and as other-net revenue for awards
redeemed on other airlines. Alaska’s Mileage Plan liabilities are included
under the following balance sheet captions at December 31 (in millions):



Current Liabilities:

Other accrued liabilities

$

87.0

$

112.9

Other Liabilities and Credits:

Deferred revenue

183.9

204.5

Other liabilities

32.1

18.6

Total

$

303.0

$

336.0

Contracted Services

Contracted services includes expenses for ground handling, security, navigation
fees, temporary employees, data processing fees, and other similar services.

Other Selling Expenses and Commissions

Other selling expenses and commissions include credit card commissions, global
distribution systems charges, Mileage Plan free travel awards, advertising,
promotional costs, commissions and incentives. Advertising production costs
are expensed the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense
was $17.1 million, $17.0 million, and $16.7 million, respectively, in 2001,
2002, and 2003.

Capitalized Interest

Interest is capitalized on flight equipment purchase deposits and ground
facility progress payments as a cost of the related asset. The interest cost
is based on the Company’s’ weighted average borrowing rate and is depreciated
over the estimated useful life of the asset. The Company ceases capitalization
of interest on aircraft when delivery dates are deferred. Capitalization
continues when the deferral period is over.

Income Taxes

The Company uses the asset and liability approach for accounting and reporting
income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases, and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected
to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities
of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the
enactment date.



Stock Options

The Company applies the intrinsic value method in accordance with the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees”, and related Interpretations in accounting for stock
options. See Note 6 for more information.

The following table represents the pro forma net income (loss) before
accounting change and pro forma earnings (loss) per share (EPS) had
compensation cost for the Company’s stock options been determined in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123. In accordance
with SFAS No. 123, the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions used for grants in 2001, 2002, and 2003, respectively:
dividend yield of 0% for all years; volatility of 44%, 49%, and 43%; risk-free
interest rates of 4.26%, 3.82%, and 2.97%; and expected lives of 5 years for
all years. Using these assumptions, the weighted average fair value of options
granted was $12.71, $13.43, and $8.96 in 2001, 2002, and 2003, respectively.




Income (loss) before accounting
change (in millions):

As reported

$

(43.4

)

$

(67.2

)

$

13.5

Deduct: Total stock-based
compensation expense
determined under fair
value-based methods
for all awards, net of
related tax

(5.9

)

(5.8

)

(6.0

)

Pro forma net income (loss)
before accounting change

$

(49.3

)

$

(73.0

)

$

7.5

Net income (loss)

$

(43.4

)

$

(118.6

)

$

13.5

As reported

Deduct: Total stock-based
compensation expense
determined under fair
value-based methods
for all awards, net of
related tax

(5.9

)

(5.8

)

(6.0

)

Pro forma net income (loss)

$

(49.3

)

$

(124.4

)

$

7.5

Basic and Diluted EPS before
accounting change:

As reported

$

(1.64

)

$

(2.53

)

$

0.51

Pro forma

(1.86

)

(2.75

)

0.28

Basic and Diluted EPS:

As reported

$

(1.64

)

$

(4.47

)

$

0.51

Pro forma

(1.86

)

(4.69

)

0.28

In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure”.
SFAS No. 148 amends the transition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.
SFAS No. 148 allowed companies adopting the fair value based method of SFAS No.
123 to utilize one of three alternative transition methods as long as SFAS No.
123 was adopted in a fiscal year beginning prior to December 16, 2003. To
date, the Company has not adopted SFAS No. 123 and would therefore be required
to use one of two methods proscribed by SFAS No. 148 if it adopted SFAS No. 123
in the future. The FASB currently is working on a project to develop a new
standard for accounting for stock-based compensation and expects to issue a
final standard in the second half of 2004.

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at their
fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period
in earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on the type of hedging
instrument and the effectiveness of the hedges.

Operating results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price of
aircraft fuel. To manage the risks associated with changes in aircraft fuel
prices, the Company uses swap agreements and call options for crude oil and
other commodities. These contracts, referred to as “fuel hedge



contracts,”
have a high correlation to changes in aircraft fuel prices, and therefore
qualify as
cash flow hedges. Each period, the contracts are adjusted to fair market value.
The change in the value of the fuel hedge contracts that perfectly offsets the
change in the value of the aircraft fuel being hedged is recorded as other
comprehensive income or loss until the hedged contract is settled and is then
recognized in earnings as part of fuel expense. To the extent the change in
the value of the fuel hedge contracts does not perfectly offset the change in
the value of the aircraft fuel purchase being hedged, the change is recognized
in earnings as part of nonoperating income (expense).

At December 31, 2003, the Company has fuel hedge contracts in place to hedge
132.1 million gallons of its expected jet fuel usage in 2004, 116.1 million
gallons in 2005 and 10.2 million gallons in 2006. This represents 33%, 28% and
2% of the anticipated fuel consumption in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively.

The Company recognized $7.4 million in nonoperating expense in 2001, $6.4
million in nonoperating income in 2002 and $1.7 million in nonoperating expense
in 2003 related to the ineffectiveness on fuel hedge contracts.

As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, the fair value of the Company’s fuel hedge
positions were $17.4 million and $18.4 million, respectively. All of the 2002
fair value amounts and $12.0 million of the 2003 fair value amounts are
included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated
balance sheets. The remaining 2003 fair value amount of $6.4 million is
reflected in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets.

During 2002 and 2003, the Company recognized gains of $12.1 million and $29.4
million, respectively, from the cash settlement of hedging activities. In
2001, hedging gains resulting from cash settlements of hedging activities were
de minimis. These gains are reflected in aircraft fuel in the consolidated
statements of operations.

The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts, generally with
maturities of less than one month, to manage the risk associated with net
foreign currency transactions. Resulting gains and losses are recognized
currently in other operating expense. The Company periodically enters into
interest rate swap agreements to hedge interest rate risk. At December 31,
2003, there were no foreign currency contracts or interest rate swap agreements
outstanding.

New Accounting Standards

In 2003, the Company adopted the accounting provisions of FASB Interpretation
No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees,
Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others” (“FIN 45”). FIN 45
requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability
for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. This
interpretation applies to guarantees issued or modified after December 31,
2002. While the Company has various guarantees included in contracts in the
normal course of business, primarily in the form of indemnities, these
guarantees would only result in immaterial increases in future costs, and do
not represent significant commitments or contingent liabilities of the
indebtedness of others.

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities.” FIN 46, as amended by FIN 46 (Revised) in
December 2003, requires consolidation of



certain types of entities in which the
Company absorbs a majority of the entity’s expected losses, receives a majority
of the entity’s expected returns, or both, as a result
of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. These
entities are called “variable interest entities.” The principal characteristics
of variable interest entities are (1) an insufficient amount of equity to
absorb the entity’s expected losses, (2) equity owners as a group are not able
to make decisions about the entity’s activities, and (3) equity that does not
absorb the entity’s losses or receive the entity’s residual returns. Variable
interests are contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in an entity
that change with fluctuations in the entity’s net asset value. As a result,
variable interest entities can arise from items such as lease agreements, loan
arrangements, guarantees or service contracts.

If an entity is determined to be a variable interest entity, the entity must be
consolidated by the “primary beneficiary”. The primary beneficiary is the
holder of the variable interests that absorbs a majority of the variable
interest entity’s expected losses or receives a majority of the entity’s
residual returns in the event no holder has a majority of the expected losses.
There is no primary beneficiary in cases where no single holder absorbs the
majority of the expected losses or receives a majority of the residual returns.
The determination of the primary beneficiary is based on qualitative aspects
of the arrangements involved or projected cash flows at the inception of the
transaction with the variable interests entity.

FIN 46 is applicable to financial statements of companies that have interests
in “special purpose entities”, as defined, during the year ended December 31,
2003.

The Company is the lessee in a series of operating leases covering the
Company’s leased aircraft. In many instances, the lessors are trusts
established by a third party specifically to purchase, finance and lease
aircraft to the Company. These leasing entities meet the criteria for variable
interest entities. However, because the Company is not the primary beneficiary
of the entity’s expected gains or losses, the Company is not required to
consolidate these entities. The leasing arrangements involved contain terms
consistent with market terms at their inception and do not include residual
value guarantees made by us, fixed-price purchase obligations or similar
features that would obligate the Company to absorb the majority of expected
losses of the variable interest entities. The Company’s maximum expected
exposure under these types of lease arrangements is the remaining lease
payments, which are reflected in future lease commitments in Note 5 (plus the
cost, if any, of bringing the equipment into compliance with the physical
condition required for return).

Fourth Quarter Adjustments

Operating loss for the three months and year ended December 31, 2003 includes
adjustments to increase operating expenses by $2.8 million (pretax) related to
prior years. Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2003 also
includes adjustments to increase operating expenses by $1.8 million (pretax)
and increase operating revenues by $6.3 million (pretax), both related to
previous quarters in 2003. Management does not believe that these amounts are
material to the periods affected.

Note 2. Marketable Securities

At December 31, 2002 and 2003 all of the Company’s marketable securities were
classified as available-for-sale. The securities are carried at fair value,
with the unrealized



gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity under the
caption “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)”. Realized gains and
losses are included in other nonoperating income (expense) in the consolidated
statements of operations. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific
identification method. Interest and dividends on marketable securities are
included in interest income in the consolidated statements of operations.

Marketable securities consisted of the following at December 31 (in millions):



Cost:

U.S. government securities

$

156.1

$

184.9

Asset backed obligations

118.1

161.0

Other corporate obligations

91.0

273.1

$

365.2

$

619.0

Fair value:

U.S. government securities

$

158.2

$

184.5

Asset backed obligations

118.1

161.6

Other corporate obligations

90.5

273.3

$

366.8

$

619.4

At December 31, 2003, gross unrealized gains and losses were not material to
the consolidated financial statements.

Of the marketable securities on hand at December 31, 2003, 78% mature in 2004,
10% in 2005, and 12% thereafter.




Proceeds from sales

and maturities

$

446.4

$

433.9

$

689.0

Gross realized gains

4.0

1.3

0.9

Gross realized losses

0.4

1.7

1.0

Note 3. Other Assets

Other assets consisted of the following at December 31 (in millions):



Restricted deposits

58.2

70.8

Deferred costs and other

15.9

34.1

Restricted cash

—

11.2

$

74.1

$

116.1

Note 4. Long-term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations

At December 31, 2002 and 2003, long-term debt and capital lease obligations
were as follows (in millions):



Fixed rate notes payable
due through 2015*

$

559.3

$

532.6

Variable rate notes payable
due through 2018*

334.2

422.5

Senior convertible notes due
2023*

—

150.0

Long-term debt

893.5

1,105.1

Capital lease obligations

11.8

8.5

Less current portion

(48.6

)

(206.7

)

$

856.7

$

906.9

*The weighted average fixed interest rate was 7.4% during 2002 and 2003. The
weighted average variable interest rate was 2.5% during 2002 and 2003,
respectively.

At December 31, 2003, borrowings of $955.1 million were secured by flight
equipment and real property.

On March 21, 2003, the Company completed the private placement of $150.0
million of floating rate senior convertible notes due in 2023 (the Notes). The
Notes bear interest for the first five years from date of issuance at a
variable interest rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 2.5% (3.65% at December 31, 2003).
This interest is paid quarterly in arrears. Thereafter, the Notes will cease
bearing cash interest and instead, the principal value of the Notes will
increase daily by the unpaid interest, which will be calculated at LIBOR plus
2.5%, up to a maximum of 5.25%.

The Notes are convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock at the
option of the holder at a price equal to the original or variable principal,
divided by 38.4615. At date of issuance, the conversion price was equal to
$26.00 per share. Upon conversion, the Company may deliver, in lieu of common
stock, cash or a combination of cash and common stock. The Company may



redeem
all or a portion of the Notes in cash or common stock or a combination of cash
and common stock at any time on or after the third anniversary of the issuance
of the Notes. In addition, holders may require the Company to purchase all or
a portion of their Notes on the 5th, 10th and 15th anniversaries
of the issuance of the Notes or upon the occurrence of a change of control or
tax event at principal plus accrued interest.

The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with the Company’s
existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.

Net proceeds from the offering totaled $144.9 million. Approximately $18.4
million of the net proceeds is restricted and intended to fund interest
payments for the first three years and is reported as restricted cash ($7.2
million recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $11.2 million
in other assets) in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31,
2003. The remaining net proceeds from the offering are being used for working
capital requirements and general corporate purposes

During 2003, Alaska issued $129.5 million of debt secured by flight equipment,
having interest rates that vary with LIBOR and payment terms of 12 to 15 years.
In September 2001, Alaska borrowed $150 million under its credit facility at
an interest rate that varies with LIBOR and is payable on or before December
31, 2004.

At December 31, 2003, long-term debt principal payments for the next five
years were as follows (in millions):


$

198.7


45.8


49.1


51.9


54.9

Thereafter

704.7

Total principal payments

$

1,105.1

Certain Alaska loan agreements contain provisions that require maintenance of
specific levels of net worth, leverage and fixed charge coverage, and limit
investments, lease obligations, sales of assets, and additional indebtedness.
At December 31, 2003, the Company was in compliance with all loan provisions.

Note 5. Commitments

Lease Commitments

At December 31, 2003, the Company had lease contracts for 113 aircraft that
have remaining noncancelable lease terms of one to 16 years. The majority of
airport and terminal facilities are also leased. Total rent expense was $254.0
million, $274.1 million and $288.1 million, in 2001, 2002, and 2003,
respectively.



Future minimum lease payments with noncancelable terms in excess of one year as
of December 31, 2003 are shown below (in millions):

Operating

Leases

Capital

Aircraft

Facilities

Leases

2004*

$

191.8

$

82.9

$

8.4


186.5

81.0

0.2


182.6

33.6

0.2


165.8

14.0

0.1


167.5

9.9

—

Thereafter

959.9

135.3

—

Total lease payments

$

1,854.1

$

356.7

$

8.9

Less amount representing interest

(0.4

)

Present value of capital
lease payments

$

8.5

* The 2004 capital lease obligation primarily represents the end of lease
buyout of two airplanes totaling $6.2 million. In January 2004, these leases
were renegotiated and will be reflected as operating leases in future periods.

Aircraft Commitments

The Company has firm orders for three Boeing 737 series aircraft to be
delivered between 2004 and 2005, two Bombardier Q400 aircraft to be delivered
in 2004, and ten Bombardier CRJ700 aircraft between 2004 and 2009. The firm
orders require payments of approximately $361 million between 2004 and 2009.
As of December 31, 2003, deposits of $72.3 million related to the firm orders
had been made. In addition to the ordered aircraft, the Company has purchase
options on 26 Boeing 737s, 15 Q400s, and 25 CRJ700s.

Alaska is party to a purchase agreement with an aircraft manufacturer. Under
the agreement, upon commitment to purchase the aircraft, Alaska must make
deposits to the manufacturer of a portion of the purchase price of the
aircraft, with the remainder of the purchase price due at delivery. Concurrent
with this agreement, the manufacturer has an agreement with a Trust wherein the
Trust makes deposits to the manufacturer of additional pre-delivery deposits
for the aircraft. Under certain specified events, including default by the
Trust, Alaska may be required to pay the manufacturer the amounts paid by the
Trust in order to retain the right to purchase the aircraft. Alaska makes
monthly payments to the Trust related to the advances made by the Trust to the
manufacturer, which payments are capitalized as part of the aircraft cost. The
Trust is reimbursed for its advances on or before the delivery of the
applicable aircraft. As of December 31, 2003, Alaska’s obligations related to
such advances equaled approximately $11.6 million, which is scheduled for
payment during the first quarter of 2004.

Note 6. Stock Plans

The Company has three stock option plans that provide for the purchase of Air
Group common stock at stipulated prices on the dates of the grant by certain
officers and key employees of Air Group and its subsidiaries. Under the 1996,
1997, and 1999 Plans, options for 4,258,500 shares have been granted and, at
December 31, 2003, 448,400 shares were available for grant. Under all plans,
the stock options granted have terms of up to ten years. Substantially all
grantees are 25% vested after one year, 50% after two years, 75% after three
years, and 100% after four years.

The Company follows the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25
and related Interpretations in accounting for stock options. Accordingly, no
compensation cost has been recognized for these plans as



the exercise price of options equals the fair market value on date of grant.

Changes in the number of shares subject to options, with their weighted average
exercise prices, are summarized below:

Price

Share

Per Share

Outstanding, Jan. 1, 2001

1,820,937

$

34.10

Granted

1,252,900

28.52

Exercised

(67,950

)

18.87

Canceled

(104,275

)

36.37

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 2001

2,901,612

31.96

Granted

388,300

28.52

Exercised

(16,700

)

20.20

Canceled

(20,900

)

27.67

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 2002

3,252,312

$

31.64

Granted

560,600

19.60

Exercised

(48,000

)

21.79

Canceled

(75,975

)

25.63

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 2003

3,688,937

$

30.01

Exercisable at year-end

December 31, 2001

1,022,962

$

34.67

December 31, 2002

1,615,887

33.95

December 31, 2003

2,274,587

33.02

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at
December 31, 2003 with their weighted average exercise prices and remaining
contractual lives:

Range of

Remaining

Price

Exercise prices

Life (years)

Shares

Per Share

Outstanding:

$11 to $17

2.6

42,050

$

15.58

$18 to $22

8.3

575,475

19.36

$23 to $28

7.3

1,028,050

25.99

$29 to $34

6.7

1,196,600

31.20

$35 to $40

4.8

583,012

38.26

$41 to $51

3.8

253,750

47.14

$52 to $57

4.2

10,000

57.31

$11 to $57

6.5

3,688,937

$

30.01

Exercisable:

$11 to $17

36,950

$

15.52

$18 to $22

67,700

21.52

$23 to $28

525,975

25.50

$29 to $34

797,200

31.14

$35 to $40

583,012

38.26

$41 to $51

253,750

47.14

$52 to $57

10,000

57.31

$11 to $57

2,274,587

$

33.02

In August 2002, the Company adopted an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP
Plan) which is intended to qualify under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue
Code. Under the terms of the ESPP Plan, employees can purchase Company common
stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or the last day
of each quarterly offering period. Proceeds received from the issuance of
shares are credited to stockholders’ equity in the period in which the shares
are issued. In 2002 and 2003, 24,157 shares and 135,043 shares, respectively,
were purchased by Company employees under the ESPP Plan.

Note 7. Employee Benefit Plans

Four defined benefit and five defined contribution retirement plans cover
various employee groups of Alaska and Horizon. The defined benefit plans
provide benefits based on an employee’s term of service and average
compensation for a specified period of time before retirement. Alaska and
Horizon also maintain unfunded, noncontributory defined benefit plans for
certain elected officers. A summary of each plan follows:

Pension Plans-Defined Benefit

The Company’s pension plans are funded as required by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). The defined benefit plan assets consist
primarily of marketable equity and fixed income securities. The Company uses a
December 31 measurement date for these plans. The following table sets forth
the status of the plans for 2002 and 2003 (in millions):



Projected benefit obligation

Beginning of year

$

507.2

$

640.7

Service cost

37.2

44.6

Interest cost

38.6

43.1

Amendments

3.8

—

Change in assumptions

41.3

85.9

Actuarial loss

25.7

5.2

Benefits paid

(13.1

)

(14.5

)

End of year

$

640.7

$

805.0





Plan assets at fair value

Beginning of year

$

454.5

$

418.1

Actual return on plan assets

(42.6

)

88.1

Employer contributions

19.3

37.8

Benefits paid

(13.1

)

(14.5

)

End of year

$

418.1

$

529.5

The accumulated benefit obligation for the defined benefit pension plan was
$530.3 million and $663.8 million at December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively.

Funded status

(222.6

)

(275.6

)

Unrecognized loss

250.1

272.5

Unrecognized prior service cost

50.2

45.0

Net amount recognized

$

77.7

$

41.9

Amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheet

:

Intangible asset

50.2

45.0

Accrued benefit liability-current

(38.0

)

(

49.0

)

Accrued benefit liability-long term

(74.2

)

(

85.3

)

Accumulated other comprehensive
income

139.7

131.2

Net amount recognized

$

77.7

$

41.9

Weighted average assumptions used to determine
Benefit obligations as of December 31

Discount rate

6.75

%

6.00

%

Rate of compensation increase

5.4

%

5.4

%

Weighted average assumptions used to determine
Net periodic benefit cost as of December 31

Discount rate

7.25

%

6.75

%

Expected return on plan assets

8.0

%

8.0

%

Rate of compensation increase

5.4

%

5.4

%

In determining the expected return on plan assets, the Company assesses the
current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily
government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the
other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for
future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class
is then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected
long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.

The asset allocation of the defined benefit plans, by asset
category, is as follows as of the end of 2002 and 2003:



Asset category:

Equity securities


%


%

Fixed income securities



Other



Plan assets


%


%

The Company’s investment policy focuses on achieving maximum returns at a
reasonable risk for pension assets over a full market cycle. The Company uses
a number of fund managers and invests in various asset classes to diversify
risk. Target allocations for the primary asset classes are
approximately:

Domestic equities:

60%

Fixed income:

40%

Pension assets are rebalanced periodically to maintain the above target asset
allocations. Up to 12% of the equity portfolio may be invested in a pooled
fund of small capitalization stocks. An individual equity investment will not
exceed 10% of the entire equity portfolio. Fixed income securities carry a
minimum “A” rating by Moody’s and/or Standard and Poor’s and the average life
of the bond portfolio may not exceed 10 years.

Net pension expense for the defined benefit plans included the following
components for 2001, 2002, and 2003 (in millions):




Service cost

$

29.0

$

37.2

$

44.6

Interest cost

32.3

38.6

43.1

Expected return on assets

(46.0

)

(46.4

)

(33.9

)

Amortization of
prior service cost

4.6

5.2

5.2

Recognized actuarial
loss

0.1

5.4

14.5

Net pension expense

$

20.0

$

40.0

$

73.5



In 2002, the Company recorded an $87.2 million (net of taxes of $52.5 million)
non-cash charge to equity in connection with the defined benefit plans that the
Company sponsors for eligible employees. This charge resulted from an unfunded
accrued benefit obligation resulting from lower than expected returns on plan
assets and a reduction in discount rate. In 2003, the Company recorded a
reduction of this equity charge of $8.5 million ($5.2 million, net of taxes of
$3.3 million) primarily reflecting higher than expected return on assets.

The Company expects to contribute $49.0 million to these defined benefit
pension plans during 2004.

Pension Plans-Noncontributory

Alaska and Horizon also maintain unfunded, noncontributory defined benefit
plans for certain elected officers. These plans use a December 31 measurement
date. The following table sets forth the status of the plans for 2002 and 2003
(in millions):

The accumulated benefit obligation for the noncontributory defined benefit plan
was $29.6 million and $34.3 million at December 31, 2002 and 2003,
respectively.

Weighted average assumptions used to determine
Benefit obligations as of December 31

Discount rate

6.75

%

6.00

%

Rate of compensation increase

5.4

%

5.4

%

Weighted average assumptions used to determine
Net periodic benefit cost as of December 31

Discount rate

7.25

%

6.75

%

Rate of compensation increase

5.4

%

5.4

%

Funded status

(30.9

)

(35.8

)

Unrecognized loss

5.8

9.2

Unrecognized prior service cost

0.7

0.6

Net amount recognized

($24.4

)

($26.0

)



Amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheet

:

Intangible assets

$

0.7

$

0.6

Accrued benefit liability-current

(1.5

)

(1.5

)

Accrued benefit liability-long term

(28.2

)

(32.7

)

Accumulated other comprehensive
income

4.6

7.6

Net amount recognized

$

(24.4

)

$

(26.0

)

Net pension expense for the noncontributory defined benefit plans included the
following components for 2001, 2002 and 2003 (in millions):




Service cost

$

0.8

$

0.6

$

0.8

Interest cost

1.8

2.0

2.1

Amortization of
prior service cost

—

0.1

0.1

Actuarial loss

—

—

0.3

Net pension expense

$

2.6

$

2.7

$

3.3

Defined Contribution Plans

The defined contribution plans are deferred compensation plans under section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. All of these plans require Company
contributions. Total expense for the defined contribution plans was $19.0
million, $20.6 million, and $21.7 million, respectively, in 2001, 2002, and
2003.



Profit Sharing Plans

Alaska and Horizon have employee profit sharing plans. There was no profit
sharing expense during 2001 or 2002. In 2003, the Company recorded profit
sharing expense of $3.7 million ($2.9 million Alaska and $0.8 million Horizon).

Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company allows retirees to continue their medical, dental, and vision
benefits by paying all or a portion of the active employee plan premium until
eligible for Medicare, currently age 65. This results in a subsidy to
retirees, because the premiums received by the Company are less than the actual
cost of the retirees’ claims. The accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation (APBO) for this subsidy is unfunded, and at December 31, 2002 and
2003 was $52.7 million and $77.3 million, respectively. This liability was
determined using an assumed discount rate of 6.75% and 6.00% in 2002 and 2003,
respectively. The accrued liability related to the subsidy is included with
other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and totaled $31.3 million
and $39.2 million at December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively. Annual expense
related to this subsidy was approximately $4.6 million in 2001, $4.4 million in
2002, and $9.6 million in 2003.

The Company uses a December 31 measurement date to assess obligations
associated with the subsidy. Net periodic benefit cost for the postretirement
medical plans included the following components for 2001, 2002, and 2003 (in
millions):




Service cost

$

1.5

$

2.3

$

3.5

Interest cost

2.1

3.2

4.3

Expected return on assets

—

—

—

Amortization of
prior service cost

0.1

(0.2

)

(0.2

)

Recognized actuarial
loss (gain)

0.9

(0.9

)

2.0

Net periodic benefit cost

$

4.6

$

4.4

$

9.6

A 1% higher or lower trend rate has the following effect on the Company’s
postretirement medical plans during 2001, 2002, and 2003 (in millions):




Change in service and interest cost

1% higher trend rate

$

0.6

$

1.0

$

1.3

1% lower trend rate

(0.5

)

(0.6

)

(1.1

)

Change in year-end postretirement benefit obligation

1% higher trend rate

$

5.0

$

7.0

$

10.5

1% lower trend rate

(4.2

)

(6.0

)

(9.0

)

Note 8. Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and
such amounts for tax purposes.

Deferred tax (assets) and liabilities comprise the following at December 31 (in
millions):

*      Federal loss carryforwards of $54.4 million ($19.0 million tax effected)
expire in 2023. State loss carryforwards of $104.5 million ($4.6 million tax
effected) expire beginning in 2005 and ending in 2023.



The components of income tax expense (benefit) were as follows (in millions):




Current tax expense (benefit):

Federal

$

(25.6

)

$

(53.0

)

$

10.4

State

(1.2

)

(2.3

)

0.7

Total current

(26.8

)

(55.3

)

11.1

Deferred tax expense (benefit):

Federal

7.2

19.8

3.3

State

(0.5

)

0.9

1.1

Total deferred

6.7

20.7

4.4

Total tax expense (benefit)

$

(20.1

)

$

(34.6

)

$

15.5

Income tax expense (benefit) reconciles to the amount computed by applying the
U.S. federal rate of 35% to income (loss) before income tax and accounting
change as follows (in millions):




Income (loss) before income tax
and accounting change

$

(63.5

)

$

(101.8

)

$

29.0

Expected tax expense
(benefit)

$

(22.1

)

$

(35.6

)

$

10.2

Nondeductible expenses

3.3

2.4

2.5

State income taxes

(1.2

)

(1.9

)

0.9

Other - net

(0.1

)

0.5

1.9

Actual tax expense (benefit)

$

(20.1

)

$

(34.6

)

$

15.5

Effective tax rate

31.7

%

34.0

%

53.4

%

Note 9. Financial Instruments

The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments were as
follows (in millions):

December 31, 2002

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

269.0

$

269.0

Marketable securities

366.8

366.8

Restricted deposits

58.2

58.2

Fuel hedge contracts

17.4

17.4

Liabilities:

Long-term debt

893.5

926.7

December 31, 2003

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

192.9

$

192.9

Marketable securities

619.4

619.4

Restricted deposits

70.8

70.8

Fuel hedge contracts

18.4

18.4

Liabilities:

Long-term debt

1,105.1

1,128.1

The fair value of cash equivalents approximates carrying value due to the
short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of marketable securities
is based on quoted market prices. The fair value of fuel hedge contracts is
based on commodity exchange prices. The fair value of restricted deposits
approximates the carrying amount. The fair value of long-term debt is based
on a discounted cash flow analysis using the Company’s current borrowing rate.

Note 10. Earnings (Loss) per Share (EPS)

Earnings (loss) per share (EPS) calculations were as follows (in millions
except per share amounts):




Basic

Income (loss) before
accounting change

$

(43.4

)

$

(67.2

)

$

13.5

Weighted average
shares outstanding

26.499

26.546

26.648

EPS before acctg. change

$

(1.64

)

$

(2.53

)

$

0.51

Diluted

Income (loss) before
accounting change

$

(43.4

)

$

(67.2

)

$

13.5

Weighted average
shares outstanding

26.499

26.546

26.730

EPS before acctg. change

$

(1.64

)

$

(2.53

)

$

0.51

Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the average common shares
outstanding plus additional common shares that would have been outstanding
assuming the exercise of in-the-money stock options, using the treasury stock
method. Stock options excluded from the calculation of



diluted EPS because they
are antidilutive, represented 2.9 million, 3.3 million, and 3.0
million shares, respectively, in 2001, 2002, and 2003.

Diluted shares also excludes the shares of common stock issuable upon
conversion of the convertible notes issued on March 21, 2003. Although the
Company previously reported its expectation that the notes would become
convertible in the fourth quarter of 2003, the actual closing prices of Air
Group’s common stock during the fourth quarter did not trigger the
convertibility feature.

Note 11. Operating Segment Information

SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information”, as amended (SFAS 131), requires that a public company report
annual and interim financial and descriptive information about its reportable
operating segments. Operating segments, as defined, are components of an
enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is
evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to
allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company has two primary
operating and reporting segments, consisting of Alaska and Horizon. These
segments are more fully described in Note 1 under Nature of Operations.

Financial information for Alaska and Horizon follows (in millions):




Operating revenues:

Alaska

$

1,763.0

$

1,833.1

$

2,027.4

Horizon

408.4

419.6

463.8

Other

1.5

1.4

1.4

Elimination of inter-company revenues

(20.1

)

(30.0

)

(47.8

)

Consolidated

2,152.8

2,224.1

2,444.8

Depreciation and amortization expense:

Alaska

106.1

114.0

119.5

Horizon

26.7

17.0

12.3

Other

1.3

1.5

1.2

Consolidated

134.1

132.5

133.0

Interest income:

Alaska

26.0

23.2

15.2

Horizon

—

0.7

0.7

Other

—

—

1.9

Elimination of inter-company accounts

(3.8

)

(2.7

)

(5.0

)

Consolidated

22.2

21.2

12.8

Interest expense:

Alaska

47.4

46.6

45.2

Horizon

3.0

2.1

2.4

Other

0.8

0.7

5.2

Elimination of inter-company accounts

(3.8

)

(3.1

)

(5.0

)

Consolidated

47.4

46.3

47.8

Income (loss) before income tax
and accounting change:

Alaska

(16.4

)

(87.3

)

11.8

Horizon

(45.1

)

(12.8

)

25.3

Other

(2.0

)

(1.7

)

(8.1

)

Consolidated

(63.5

)

(101.8

)

29.0

Capital expenditures*:

Alaska

400.9

146.2

308.2

Horizon

(10.7

)

8.5

45.9

Other

0.1

(0.3

)

—

Consolidated

390.3

154.4

354.1

Total assets at end of period:

Alaska

2,756.0

2,751.1

3,066.4

Horizon

241.4

213.5

246.7

Other

878.9

734.8

888.9

Elimination of inter-company accounts

(925.8

)

(818.7

)

(942.8

)

Consolidated

$

2,950.5

$

2,880.7

$

3,259.2

* Capital expenditures include aircraft deposits, net of deposits returned.

** Certain amounts in the previously reported Alaska and Horizon financial
information have been reclassified to conform with amounts presented in 2003.

Note 12. Special Charge

In December 2001, Horizon recorded a $10.2 million special charge to recognize
the loss in value of its owned Fokker F-28 aircraft engines and related spare
parts, which had a net book value of $16.2 million, net of the impairment
charge, at December 31, 2001, and $8.1 million at December 31, 2002. The
F-28s, have been replaced with more fuel-efficient CRJ 700 regional jets, and
were phased completely out of service on February 14, 2003.



Note 13. U.S. Government Compensation

In September 2001, the U.S. Government passed the Air Transportation Safety and
System Stabilization Act to provide $5 billion of cash compensation and $10
billion of loan guarantees to U.S. airlines. The purpose of this Act was to
compensate the airlines for direct and incremental losses for the period
September 11 through December 31, 2001 as a result of the September 11
terrorist attacks.

In 2001, Alaska and Horizon recorded government compensation of $71.6 million
and $9.8 million, respectively. These amounts are reflected in nonoperating
income (expense) in the consolidated statements of operations. During the
third quarter of 2002, the Department of Transportation completed its review
procedures and remitted final compensation payments to Alaska and Horizon of
$0.2 million each.

On April 16, 2003, the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the
Act) was signed into legislation. The Act includes $2.3 billion of one-time
cash payments to air carriers, allocated based on each carrier’s share of
security fees remitted and carrier fees paid to the Transportation Security
Administration (TSA) since its inception in February 2002. Additionally,
passenger security fees were not imposed by the TSA and carrier fees were not
paid during the period June 1, 2003 through September 30, 2003. In May 2003,
the Company received its share of the one-time cash grant in the amount of
$71.4 million ($52.8 million for Alaska and $18.6 million for Horizon).

In August 2003, the Company received $2.7 million ($2.5 million for Alaska and
$0.2 million for Horizon) from the Federal Aviation Administration in
reimbursement of flight deck reinforcement expenditures. The reimbursement was
recorded as an offset to capital costs.

Note 14. Contingencies

The Company is a party to routine litigation incidental to its business and
with respect to which no material liability is expected. Management believes
the ultimate disposition of these matters is not likely to materially affect
the Company’s financial position or results of operations. However, this
belief is based on management’s current understanding of the relevant law and
facts; it is subject to various contingencies, including the potential costs
and risks associated with litigation and the actions of judges and juries.

Note 15. Change in Accounting Principle

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.” Under this statement, goodwill is considered to have an indefinite
life and is no longer amortized but instead is subject to periodic impairment
testing. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142.
Assuming the Company had adopted this standard as of January 1, 2001, the
Company’s net loss for the year ended December 31, 2001 would have been reduced
by approximately $2.0 million ($.08 per share) for the impact of goodwill
amortization.

During the second quarter of 2002, the Company completed the first step of its
impairment test related to its $51.4 million of goodwill and determined that
the net book value exceeded its fair value. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company completed the second step of its impairment test and determined that
all of the Company’s goodwill was impaired. As a result, the Company recorded
a one-time, non-cash charge, effective January 1, 2002 of $51.4 million ($12.5
million Alaska and $38.9



million Horizon) to write-off all of its goodwill.
This charge is reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change in the
2002 consolidated statement of operations.

Note 16. Horizon Partnership Agreement

On January 1, 2004, Horizon began operating regional jet service branded as
Frontier JetExpress under a 12-year agreement with Frontier Airlines. Horizon
is currently operating four 70-seat Bombardier CRJ-700 aircraft as Frontier
JetExpress and plans on expanding this fleet to nine airplanes by May 30, 2004.
Horizon is responsible for flying and maintaining the aircraft and Frontier
maintains control over scheduling and destinations. In exchange for providing
these services, Horizon receives a base fee and performance-based incentives.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Seattle, Washington

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alaska Air
Group, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets,

effective January 1, 2002.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington

February 27, 2004



VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Schedule II

Additions

Beginning

Charged

(A)

Ending

(In Millions)

Balance

to Expense

Deductions

Balance

Year Ended December 31, 2001

(a) Reserve deducted from asset
to which it applies:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1.7

$

2.5

$

(2.4

)

$

1.8

Obsolescence allowance for flight
equipment spare parts

$

28.1

$

12.2

$

(0.7

)

$

39.6

(b) Reserve recorded as other
long-term liabilities:

Leased aircraft return provision

$

8.0

$

4.0

$

(0.4

)

$

11.6

Year Ended December 31, 2002

(a) Reserve deducted from asset
to which it applies:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1.8

$

1.9

$

(1.4

)

$

2.3

Obsolescence allowance for flight
equipment spare parts

$

39.6

$

5.9

$

(1.0

)

$

44.5

(b) Reserve recorded as other
long-term liabilities:

Leased aircraft return provision

$

11.6

$

2.8

$

(0.2

)

$

14.2

Year Ended December 31, 2003

(a) Reserve deducted from asset
to which it applies:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

2.3

$

1.0

$

(1.6

)

$

1.7

Obsolescence allowance for flight
equipment spare parts

$

44.5

$

5.7

$

(5.9

)

$

44.3

(b) Reserve recorded as other
long-term liabilities:

Leased aircraft return provision

$

14.2

$

5.0

$

(5.0

)

$

14.2

(A) Deduction from reserve for purpose for which reserve was created.



EXHIBIT INDEX

Certain of the following exhibits have heretofore been filed with the
Commission and are incorporated herein by reference from the document
described in parenthesis. Certain others are filed herewith.

*3.(i)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alaska Air Group, Inc. as amended through May 21, 1999 (Exhibit 3.1 to Second
Quarter 2002 10-Q)

*3.(ii)

Bylaws of Alaska Air Group, Inc., as amended through February 12, 2003 (Exhibit 3.II to 2002 10-K)

*4.1

Indenture dated as of March 21, 2003 between Alaska Air Group, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee,
relating to senior convertible notes due 2023 (Exhibit 4.1 to First Quarter 2003 10-Q)

*4.2

Form of Senior Convertible Note due 2023 (Exhibit 4.1 to First Quarter 2003 10-Q)

*4.3

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 21, 2003 between Alaska Air Group, Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and each of the Initial Purchasers of Senior Convertible Notes due 2023
(Exhibit 4.3 to First Quarter 2003 10-Q)

*4.4

Pledge Agreement dated as of March 21, 2003 between Alaska Air Group, Inc. in favor of U.S. Bank National Association
relating to Senior Convertible Notes due 2023 (Exhibit 4.3 to First Quarter 2003 10-Q)

*4.5

Control Agreement dated as of March 21, 2003 between Alaska Air Group, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association
relating to Senior Convertible Notes due 2023 (Exhibit 4.5 to First Quarter 2003 10-Q)

*10

Employment agreement between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and George D. Bagley (Exhibit 10 to First Quarter 2002 10-Q)***

*10.1

2002 Management Incentive Plan***

*10.2

Loan Agreement dated as of December 1, 1984, between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and the Industrial Development Corporation
of the Port of Seattle (Exhibit 10-38 to 1984 10-K)

*10.3

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended through May 19, 1992 (Registration Statement No. 33-52242)***

*#10.4

Lease Agreement dated January 22, 1990 between International Lease Finance Corporation and Alaska Airlines, Inc. for
the lease of a B737-400 aircraft, summaries of 19 substantially identical lease agreements and Letter Agreement



#1 dated January 22, 1990 (Exhibit 10-14 to 1990 10-K)

*#10.5(a)

Agreement dated September 18, 1996 between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Boeing for the purchase of 12 Boeing 737-400
aircraft (Exhibit 10.1 to Third Quarter 1996 10-Q)

*#10.5(b)

Supplemental Agreement 6 to Agreement dated September 18, 1996 between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Boeing for the
purchase of 12 Boeing 737-400 aircraft

*10.7

Supplemental retirement plan arrangement between Horizon Air Industries, Inc. and Jeffrey D. Pinneo***

*10.8

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1996 Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan (Registration Statement 333-09547)***

*10.9

Alaska Air Group, Inc. Non Employee Director Stock Plan (Registration Statement 333-33727)***

*10.11

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1997 Non Officer Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan (Registration Statement 333-39899)***

*10.12

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1981 Supplementary Retirement Plan for Elected Officers, as amended by First Amendment to the
Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Alaska Air Group, Inc. Supplementary Retirement Plan for Officers***

*10.13

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1995 Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan, as amended by First Amendment to the
Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1995 Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan and Second Amendment to the Alaska Air
Group, Inc. 1995 Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan***

*#10.14

Agreement dated December 21, 1998 between Horizon Air Industries, Inc. and Bombardier for the purchase of 25 Canadair
regional jets series 700 aircraft (Exhibit 10.16 to 1998 Form 10-K)

*10.15

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1999 Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan (Registration Statement 333-87563)***

*10.16

Alaska Air Group, Inc. Change of Control Agreement dated October 27, 1999 (Exhibit 10.18 to 1999 Form 10-K)

*10.17

Alaska Air Group, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by First Amendment to the Alaska Air Group,
Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan

*#10.18

Codeshare Agreement dated as of September 18, 2003 between Horizon Air Industries, Inc. and Frontier Airlines, Inc.
(Exhibit 10.1 to Third Quarter 2003 10-Q)

**12.1

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges



*21

Subsidiaries of the Registrant (Exhibit 22-01 to 1987 10-K)

**23.1

Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP

**31.1

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

**31.2

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

**32.1

Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

**32.2

Section 906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

*

Previously filed.

**

Filed herewith.

***

Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

#

Confidential treatment was requested as to a portion of this document.

82