
10-K405


             UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, DC  20549
                                 FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF     1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                   OR
     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from  . . . . . . . .  to  . . . . . . . .

Commission File Number 1-8957
                          ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.
          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                                     
           Delaware                                   91-1292054
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   (I.R.S.
Employer Identification No.)

          19300 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, Washington 98188
                 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)
    Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (206) 431-7040
                                     
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

      Title of Each Class             Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value                         New York Stock Exchange
Rights to Purchase Series A Participating
 Preferred Stock                                      New York Stock Exchange
6-1/2% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2005         New York Stock Exchange
7-3/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 2010   Unlisted
6-7/8% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 2014   New York Stock Exchange
10.21% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
     Preferred Stock Due 1997                         Unlisted

   As  of  December 31, 1995, common shares outstanding totaled 13,565,076.
The  aggregate market value of the common shares of Alaska Air Group,  Inc.
held  by  nonaffiliates, 13,378,152 shares, was approximately $217  million
(based on the closing price of these shares, $16.25, on the New York  Stock
Exchange on such date).

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject  to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    X    No ____

   Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers  pursuant  to
Item  405  of  Regulation  S-K is not contained herein,  and  will  not  be
contained,  to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive  proxy  or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of  this  Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ( X )

                 DOCUMENTS TO BE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
     Title of Document           Part Hereof Into Which Document to be
Incorporated
Definitive Proxy Statement Relating to            Part III
1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

Exhibit Index begins on page 33.
PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

General
Alaska Air Group, Inc. (Air Group or the Company) is a holding company
which was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.  Its two principal subsidiaries
are Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries, Inc.
(Horizon).  Both subsidiaries operate as airlines.  However, each
subsidiary's business plan, competition and economic risks differ
substantially.  Alaska is a major airline, operates an all jet fleet, and
its average passenger trip length is 846 miles.  Horizon is a regional
airline, operates jet and turboprop aircraft, and its average passenger
trip is 221 miles. Business segment information is reported in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company's executive offices are
located at 19300 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, Washington 98188.

The business of the Company is somewhat seasonal.  Quarterly operating
income tends to peak during the third quarter.

Alaska
Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation, organized in 1937.  Alaska serves
37 cities in six states (Alaska, Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada and
Arizona), three cities in Mexico and four cities in Russia.  In each year
since 1973, Alaska has carried more passengers between Alaska and the U.S.
mainland than any other airline.    In 1995, Alaska carried 10.1 million
passengers.  Passenger traffic within Alaska and between Alaska and the
U.S. mainland accounted for 27% of Alaska's total revenue passenger miles,
while West Coast traffic accounted for 66% and the Mexico markets 7%.
Based on passenger enplanements, Alaska's leading airports are Seattle,
Portland, Anchorage and Los Angeles.  Based on revenues, its leading
nonstop routes were Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles and Seattle-San
Francisco.  At December 31, 1995, Alaska's operating fleet consisted of 74
jet aircraft.

During 1995, Alaska entered into a marketing agreement with Northwest
Airlines whereby certain Alaska flights and certain Northwest flights are
dual-designated in airline computer reservation systems as Alaska Airlines
and Northwest Airlines.  Alaska Airlines also serves three smaller cities
in California, two in Washington, and many small communities in Alaska
through code share marketing agreements with local carriers.

Horizon
Horizon, a Washington corporation, began service in 1981 and was acquired
by Air Group in 1986.  It is the largest regional airline in the Pacific
Northwest, and serves 35 cities in five states (Washington, Oregon,
Montana, Idaho, and California) and four cities in Canada.  In 1995,
Horizon carried 3.8 million passengers.  Based on passenger enplanements,
Horizon's leading airports are Seattle, Portland, Spokane and Boise.  Based
on revenues, its leading nonstop routes were Seattle-Spokane, Seattle-
Portland, Seattle-Boise, and Portland-Boise.  At December 31, 1995,
Horizon's operating fleet consisted of 12 jet and 55 turboprop aircraft.

Horizon flights are listed under the Alaska Airlines designator code in
airline computer reservation systems.  Certain Horizon flights are dual-
designated in these reservation systems as Northwest Airlines and Alaska
Airlines.  Currently, 29% of Horizon's passengers connect to either Alaska
or Northwest.

Airline Regulation
United States Department of Transportation (DOT) - The DOT has the
authority to regulate certain airline economic functions including
financial and statistical reporting, consumer protection, computerized
reservations systems and essential air transportation.  The DOT is also
charged with determining which U.S. carriers will receive the authority to
provide service to international destinations.  International operating
authority is subject to bilateral agreements between the United States and
the respective countries.  The countries establish the number of carriers
to provide service, approve the carriers selected to provide such service
and the size of aircraft to be used.  The DOT reviews the carriers
authorized under bilateral agreements every five years.  Beginning in
February 1997, under the U.S.-Canada "open skies" agreement, all U.S. and
Canadian carriers will be able to operate between U.S. and Canadian cities
(except for Toronto), subject to availability of landing slots.  Alaska's
authorities to serve its various Mexico destinations are to be reviewed
during 1996.  The bilateral agreement with Russia will also be reviewed in
1996.  The Company expects to be granted authority to continue to operate
its international routes.

Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) - The FAA, an agency within the DOT,
has jurisdiction to regulate aviation safety generally, including: the
licensing of pilots and maintenance personnel; the establishment of minimum
standards for training and maintenance; and technical standards of flight,
communications and ground equipment.  All aircraft must have and maintain
certificates of airworthiness issued by the FAA.  Alaska and Horizon
aircraft, maintenance facilities and procedures are subject to inspection
by the FAA.  The FAA has the authority to suspend temporarily or revoke
permanently the authority of an air carrier or its licensed personnel for
failure to comply with Federal Aviation Regulations and to levy civil
penalties for such failure.

Labor Relations - The air transportation industry is regulated under the
Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board certain
regulatory powers with respect to disputes between airlines and labor
unions arising under collective bargaining agreements.

Environmental - Special noise ordinances or agreements restrict the type of
aircraft, the timing and the number of flights operated by Alaska and other
air carriers at four Los Angeles area airports plus San Diego, Palm
Springs, San Francisco and Seattle.

In 1990, Congress passed the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (Act).
The Act addressed the need to establish a national aviation noise policy
and limit the ability of airports and local communities to implement
procedures that would interfere with interstate commerce or the national
air transportation system.  The Act also called for the phase out of Stage
II airplanes (generally older aircraft not meeting certain noise emission
standards) in the contiguous 48 states by December 31, 1999.  Alaska's only
Stage II aircraft are eight Boeing 737-200Cs, and the Company anticipates
it will modify or replace these aircraft to meet applicable noise
requirements.
Competition
Competition in the air transportation industry is intense.  Currently, any
domestic air carrier deemed fit by the DOT is allowed to operate scheduled
passenger service in the United States.  Together, Alaska and Horizon carry
2.2% of all U.S. passenger traffic.

Alaska and Horizon compete in the West Coast, Arizona and Nevada markets
with America West, Delta, Reno Air, Shuttle by United, Southwest Airlines,
United and United Express.  Alaska also competes with Continental, Delta,
Reno Air and United in the Lower 48-to-Alaska market.  Some of these
competitors are substantially larger than Alaska and Horizon, have greater
financial resources and have more extensive route systems.  Due to its
shorthaul markets, Horizon is also subject to competition from surface
transportation, particularly the private automobile.

Alaska and Horizon integrate their flight schedules to provide the best
possible service between any two points served by their systems.  Both
airlines distinguish themselves from competitors by providing a higher
level of customer service.  The airlines' excellent service in the form of
attention to customer needs, high-quality food and beverage service,
legroom, well-maintained aircraft and other amenities has been recognized
by independent studies and surveys of air travelers.  Alaska and Horizon
offer competitive fares.

Most large U.S. carriers have developed, independently or in partnership
with others, large computerized reservation systems (CRS).  Due to
contractual requirements imposed by CRSs, most travel agencies contract
with a single CRS to sell tickets.  Airlines, including Alaska, and
Horizon, are charged industry-set fees to have their flight schedules
included in the various CRS displays.  These systems are currently the
predominant means of distributing airline tickets.  In order to reduce anti-
competitive practices, the DOT regulates the display of all airline
schedules and fares.  Alaska is exploring alternatives to existing
distribution methods.  American Airlines, owner of the SABRE CRS, has filed
suit against Alaska to prevent Alaska from reducing its level of display
purchased from SABRE without also doing so in all other CRSs.

Frequent Flyer Program
All major airlines have developed frequent flyer programs as a way of
increasing passenger loyalty.  Alaska's Mileage Plan allows members to earn
mileage by flying on Alaska, Horizon and other participating airlines, and
by using the services of non-airline partners which include a credit card,
telephone companies, hotels and car rental agencies.  Alaska is paid by non-
airline partners for the miles it credits to member accounts.  Alaska has
the ability to change the Mileage Plan terms, conditions, partners, mileage
credits and award levels.

Mileage can be redeemed for free or discounted travel and for other travel
industry awards.  Upon accumulating the necessary mileage, members notify
Alaska of their award selection.  Once selected, awards can be changed,
subject to a change fee.  Over 70% of the flight awards selected are
subject to blackout dates and capacity-controlled seating.  Prior to
January 1996, miles earned had to be redeemed within three years, otherwise
they expired.  Effective in January 1996, all miles currently accrued and
future mileage earned will accumulate indefinitely.

As of the year end 1995 and 1994, Alaska estimates that 481,000 and 662,000
roundtrip flight awards could have been redeemed by Mileage Plan members
who have mileage credits exceeding the 20,000 mile free round trip domestic
ticket award threshold.  At December 31, 1995, fewer than 24% of these
flight awards were issued and outstanding.  For the years 1995, 1994 and
1993, approximately 242,000, 226,000 and 188,000 round trip flight awards
were redeemed and flown on Alaska and Horizon.  These awards represent
approximately 7% for 1995, and 5% for 1994 and 1993, of the total passenger
miles flown for each period.

Alaska maintains a liability for its Mileage Plan obligation which is based
on its total miles outstanding, less an estimate for miles which will never
be redeemed.  The net miles outstanding are allocated between those
credited for travel on Alaska, Horizon or other airline partners and those
credited for using the services of non-airline partners.  Miles credited
for travel on Alaska, Horizon or other airline partners are accrued at
Alaska's incremental cost of providing the air travel.  The incremental
cost includes the cost of meals, fuel, reservations and insurance.  The
incremental cost does not include a contribution to overhead, aircraft cost
or profit.  A portion of the proceeds received from non-airline partners is
also deferred.  At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the total liability for
miles outstanding was  $17.5 million and $17.4 million, respectively.

Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (Unaudited)
Selected financial data for each quarter of 1995 and 1994 is as follows (in
millions, except per share):
                 1st Quarter     2nd Quarter     3rd Quarter    4th Quarter
               1995     1994     1995   1994    1995    1994   1995    1994
Operating
revenues     $294.6   $280.4   $362.2 $330.5  $419.6  $386.8  $341.1 $318.0
Operating
income (loss) (18.3)    (2.9)    24.5   24.5    62.6    52.3     7.1    1.2
Net income
(loss)        (16.3)    (6.3)     7.0    9.7    27.4    24.3     (.8)  (5.1)

Earnings (loss) per share:
 Primary      (1.22)    (.47)     .52    .72    2.01    1.81    (.06)  (.38)
 Fully diluted    *        *      .48    .61    1.30    1.36     *       *

* Anti-dilutive

The total of the amounts shown as quarterly earnings per share may differ
from the amount shown on the Consolidated Statement of Income because the
annual computation is made separately and is based upon average number of
shares and equivalent shares outstanding for the year.

Employees
Alaska had 7,379 active full-time and part-time employees at December 31,
1995, of which approximately 87% are represented by labor unions.
The following is a summary of Alaska's union contracts as of December 31,
1995:
                                           Number of
   Union               Employee Group      Employees  Contract Status
International
Association            Mechanic, Rampservice 1,724    Amendable 9/1/97
of Machinists and      and related
Aerospace Workers      classifications

                       Clerical, Office and  2,397   Amendable 5/20/99
                       Passenger Service

Air Line Pilots        Pilots                  922   Amendable 12/1/97
Association International

Association of         Flight Attendants     1,333   Amendable 3/14/99
Flight Attendants

Mexico Workers         Mexico Airport           53    Amendable 4/1/96
Association            Personnel
of Air Transport

Transport Workers      Dispatchers              16   Amendable 2/9/02

Horizon had 3,088 active full-time and part-time employees at December 31,
1995, of which approximately 21% are represented by labor unions.  During
1995, the pilots voted to reject union representation by the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters.

The following is a summary of Horizon's union contracts as of December 31,
1995:

                                           Number of
   Union               Employee Group      Employees  Contract Status
Transport Workers      Mechanics and           315   Amendable 4/24/98
Union of America       related classifications

                       Dispatchers              27   Amendable 5/10/97

Association of         Flight Attendants       271   Amendable 6/15/96
Flight Attendants

National Automobile,   Station personnel        42  Amendable 12/21/97
Aerospace,             in Canada   
Transportation          
and General Workers

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

Aircraft
The following table describes the aircraft operated and their average age
at December 31, 1995.

                     Passenger                              Average Age
Aircraft Type         Capacity      Owned   Leased   Total     in Years

Alaska Airlines
Boeing 737-200C            111          4        4       8          15.4
Boeing 737-400             140          4       18      22           2.7
McDonnell Douglas MD-80    140         16       28      44           7.0
                                       24       50      74           6.6

Horizon
Fairchild Metroliner III    18          5       17      22           9.5
Dornier 328                 31         --       10      10           1.4
de Havilland Dash 8         37         --       23      23           7.5
Fokker F-28                 62         --       12      12          22.0
                                        5       62      67           9.8

Part II, Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition," discusses future orders and options
for additional aircraft.

Sixteen of the 24 aircraft owned by Alaska as of December 31, 1995 are
subject to liens securing long-term debt, and two are subject to liens
securing short-term borrowings.  Alaska's leased B737-200C, B737-400 and MD-
80 aircraft have lease expiration dates between 1996 and 1999, 2002 and
2013, and 1997 and 2013, respectively.  Horizon's leased Fairchild
Metroliner III, Dornier 328, de Havilland Dash 8 and Fokker F-28 aircraft
have expiration dates between 1996 and 2001, 2008 and 2011, 1999 and 2006,
and 1996 and 1998, respectively.  Alaska and Horizon have the option to
extend most of the leases for additional periods, or the right to purchase
the aircraft at the end of the lease term, usually at the then fair market
value of the aircraft.  For information regarding obligations under capital
leases and long-term operating leases, see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Ground Facilities and Services
Alaska and Horizon lease ticket counters, gates, cargo and baggage, office
space and other support areas at the majority of the airports they serve.
Alaska also owns terminal buildings at various Alaska cities.

Alaska has centralized operations in several buildings located at or near
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac) in Seattle, Washington.  The
owned buildings, including land unless located on leased airport property,
include: a three-bay hangar facility with maintenance shops; a flight
operations and training center; an air cargo facility; a reservation and
office facility; a four-story office building; its corporate headquarters;
and two storage warehouses.  Alaska also leases a two-bay hangar/office
facility at Sea-Tac.

Alaska's other major facilities include: its Anchorage regional
headquarters building and Phoenix reservations center; a leased two-bay
maintenance facility in Oakland; and a leased hangar/office facility in
Anchorage.

Horizon owns its Seattle corporate headquarters building and leases
maintenance facilities at the Portland and Boise airports.


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In October 1991, Alaska gave notice of termination of its code sharing and
frequent flyer relationship with MarkAir, an airline based in the state of
Alaska.  Both companies have filed suit against one another in connection
with that termination alleging breach of contract and other causes of
action under state law.  In addition, MarkAir claimed that the termination
was in violation of Federal Antitrust Laws.  MarkAir filed for protection
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in June 1992.  In December
1993, MarkAir agreed to dismiss all antitrust claims against the Company.
In 1994, the U.S. District Court which had jurisdiction over the case
approved the settlement.  Discovery continues in a related Alaska state
court case pertaining to breach of contract and other state law claims.
The Company believes the ultimate resolution of this legal proceeding will
not result in a material adverse impact on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc., their positions and their
respective ages (as of March 1, 1996) are as follows:
                                                            Officer
    Name                      Position               Age     Since

John F. Kelly     Chairman, President and Chief      51       1981
                  Executive Officer of Alaska
                  Air Group, Inc. and Alaska
                  Airlines, Inc.

Marjorie E. Laws  Vice President/Corporate Affairs   55       1983
                  and Corporate Secretary of Alaska
                  Air Group, Inc. and Alaska
                  Airlines, Inc.

Steven G. Hamilton    Vice President/Legal and General  56    1988
                  Counsel of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
                  and Alaska Airlines, Inc.

Harry G. Lehr     Senior Vice President/Finance      55       1986
                  of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
                  and Alaska Airlines, Inc.

ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

As of December 31, 1995, there were 13,565,076 shares of common stock
issued and outstanding and 5,747 shareholders of record.  The Company also
held 3,153,608 treasury shares at a cost of $71.8 million.  In December
1992, the Company suspended the quarterly dividend on the common stock due
to the 1992 net loss and the difficult economic environment.  Although the
Company has returned to profitability, it has no plans to pay dividends in
the forseeable future.  Air Group's common stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange (symbol: ALK).

The following table shows the trading range of Alaska Air Group common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange for 1995 and 1994.

                             1995                      1994
                       High        Low            High       Low

     First Quarter    16-3/4     13-1/2          18-7/8     13-5/8
     Second Quarter   18-3/8     14-1/2          16-1/8     13-3/4
     Third Quarter    21-3/8     14-3/8          17-7/8     14-3/8
     Fourth Quarter   18-7/8     13-5/8          18         13-1/8




ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
       FINANCIAL CONDITION

Industry Conditions
During 1994, the character of competition changed on the West Coast due to
the December 1993 purchase of Morris Air by Southwest Airlines, and the
October start-up of Shuttle by United.  Low air fares are now a permanent
part of the fare structure on the West Coast.  During April 1995, MarkAir,
a significant competitor in the Alaska marketplace since 1992, withdrew
from all Alaska markets and subsequently ceased operations.

The Company has responded to the changing industry environment by
implementing a new advertising campaign, aggressively matching competitors'
air fares, increasing flight frequency, and improving utilization of
aircraft, facilities, equipment and people.  From 1992 to 1994, Alaska
reduced its unit costs by 20%, which is believed to be the sharpest drop in
the airline industry.  From 1994 to 1995, Alaska's unit costs dropped 7%.

Results of Operations
1995 COMPARED WITH 1994  Consolidated net income in 1995 was $17.3 million,
or $1.28 per share (primary) and $1.26 per share (fully diluted), compared
with net income of $22.5 million, or $1.68 per share (primary) and $1.62
per share (fully diluted) in 1994.  Consolidated operating income was $75.9
million compared to $75.0 million in 1994.  Alaska's operating income
improved by $9.5 million, but it was offset by significantly lower
operating results at Horizon.  A discussion of operating revenues and
expenses for the two airlines follows.

Alaska Airlines  Operating revenues increased 7.6% to $1.142 billion.
Passenger revenues, which accounted for 87% of total operating revenues,
increased 7.4% on a 13.1% rise in passenger traffic.  Capacity increased
14.9%, primarily due to increases in the Pacific Northwest to California
markets.  The load factor dropped from 62.8% in 1994 to 61.8% in 1995.
Passenger yields declined 5.0% to 11.59 cents in 1995, reflecting increased
competition on the West Coast.  The static value of a one cent movement in
yield is approximately $86 million per year.  However, in a dynamic, price-
sensitive business, a one cent increase will not necessarily result in a
revenue improvement of this magnitude.

Freight and mail revenues increased 2.9% due to higher freight and mail
volumes, resulting in part from the withdrawal of MarkAir from all Alaska
markets.  Other-net revenues rose 17.6% primarily due to increased revenues
from partners in Alaska's frequent flyer program.
The table below shows the major operating expense elements on a cost per
available seat mile (ASM) basis in 1995 and 1994.

Alaska Airlines                   Operating Expenses Per ASM (In Cents)
                                                                      %
                                  1995      1994         Change    Change
Wages and benefits                2.46      2.67         (.21)      (8)
Aircraft fuel                     1.11      1.08          .03        3
Aircraft maintenance               .33       .34         (.01)      (3)
Aircraft rent                      .99      1.13         (.14)     (12)
Commissions                        .54       .61         (.07)     (11)
Depreciation & amortization        .42       .39          .03        8
Other                             1.86      2.05         (.19)      (9)
Alaska Airlines Total             7.71      8.27         (.56)      (7)

Alaska's lower unit costs were due to continuing cost reduction efforts and
better utilization of aircraft.  Average daily aircraft utilization
increased 5% from 10.3 block hours to 10.8 block hours.  Wages and benefits
per ASM decreased 8% primarily due to improved productivity.  The number of
full-time equivalent employees increased 8% while capacity increased 15%
and traffic increased 13%.

Fuel expense per ASM increased 3%, due to a 5% increase in the price of
fuel, offset by a lower consumption rate resulting from a longer average
aircraft hop length.  The average cost per gallon rose 3.0 cents to 62.9
cents in 1995.  Currently, a 1 cent change in fuel prices affects annual
fuel costs by approximately $2.5 million.  In October 1995, Alaska (as well
as Horizon and other airlines) began paying a 4.3 cent Federal excise tax
on domestic fuel consumption.  The annual fuel expense impact of this tax
on Alaska is approximately $10 million or .07 cents per ASM.  The annual
fuel expense impact on both Alaska and Horizon is $12 million.  There is
pending legislation in Congress to extend the exemption from this tax for
17 to 24 months.

Aircraft maintenance per ASM decreased 3% due to increased aircraft
utilization.  Aircraft rent per ASM decreased 12% due to an increase in
aircraft utilization, and a restructuring (in the fourth quarter of 1994)
of B737-400 aircraft leases.

Commission expense per ASM decreased 11% because passenger revenues, upon
which commissions are paid, did not keep pace with ASM growth.  In
addition, a greater percentage of tickets were sold without commissions
through tour operators and other wholesalers.

Depreciation and amortization expense per ASM increased 8%, in spite of a
15% increase in ASMs, primarily due to: (a) the reduction in estimated
salvage value from 20% to 5% (effective January 1, 1995) for all MD-80
aircraft; and (b) depreciation on three B737-400 aircraft that were treated as
operating leases for most of 1994.

Other expense per ASM decreased 9% due to lower unit costs for building
rentals, food, landing fees and outside services expenses.
Horizon Air  Operating revenues increased 8.8% to $279.5 million.
Passenger revenues, which accounted for 95% of total operating revenues,
increased 8.3% on a 14.8% rise in passenger traffic.  Capacity increased
21.4% due to the increased use of larger capacity Fokker F-28 jets and
Dornier 328 turboprop aircraft.  The load factor dropped from 62.9% in 1994
to 59.5% in 1995.  Passenger yields declined 5.6% to 31.5 cents in 1995,
reflecting increased competition and longer passenger trips.

Freight, mail and other revenues increased 18.0% due to increased freight
and mail volumes as well as increased revenues from providing services to
other airlines.

The table below shows the major operating expense elements on cost per ASM
basis for Horizon in 1995 and 1994.

Horizon Air                       Operating Expenses Per ASM (In Cents)
                                                                      %
                                  1995      1994         Change    Change
Wages and benefits                6.06      6.75         (.69)     (10)
Aircraft fuel                     1.95      1.84          .11        6
Aircraft maintenance              2.41      2.33          .08        3
Aircraft rent                     2.44      2.73         (.29)     (11)
Commissions                       1.34      1.56         (.22)     (14)
Depreciation & amortization        .70       .75         (.05)      (7)
Other                             4.57      4.99         (.42)      (8)
Horizon Air Total                19.47     20.95        (1.48)      (7)

Horizon's cost per ASM declined 7% to 19.47 cents due to: (a) greater use
of higher capacity aircraft; (b) no profit sharing accrual in 1995; and (c)
cost reduction efforts.

Consolidated Other Income (Expense)  Non-operating expense increased $7.9
million to $41.9 million expense primarily due to: (a) $4.5 million more
interest expense resulting from higher interest rates on variable debt and
higher average debt balances; (b) $2.2 million of amortization of issue
costs for the 7-1/4% zero coupon notes that were repurchased in August
1995; (c) $1.8 million of vendor credits included in 1994; and (d) $1.6
million more gains on debt retirements included in 1994.

1994 COMPARED WITH 1993  Consolidated net income for 1994 was $22.5
million, or $1.68 per share (primary) and $1.62 per share (fully diluted),
compared with a net loss of $30.9 million, or $2.51 per share, in 1993.
The results for 1993 include an after-tax charge of $9.8 million for the
early retirement of the 727 fleet.  Operating income for 1994 was $75.0
million, compared to an operating loss of $16.8 million for 1993.  The
improved operating results reflect higher operating revenues and the
effects of cost reductions and productivity improvements.

Consolidated operating revenues increased 17% to $1.316 billion.  Passenger
revenues increased 17% on a 37% increase in passenger traffic.  Traffic
gains were due to a 27% increase in system capacity, lower fares that
stimulated traffic, and increased market share.  Yields declined 15% to
14.1 cents in 1994.  Freight and mail revenues increased 9% due to a
military charter contract in the state of Alaska, increased freight
volumes, and increased freight rates, offset by lower mail volumes.  The
lower mail volumes resulted from Alaska's decision to not bid on certain
U.S. mail contracts so that capacity could be made available for higher
yielding freight.  Other-net revenues rose by $11.6 million or 27% due to
increased revenues from Alaska's frequent flyer program, maintenance
contracts and inflight liquor sales.

Consolidated operating expenses increased 8% to $1.241 billion.  Alaska's
operating expenses increased 7% to $998.7 million on a 28% increase in
capacity, resulting in a 16% decline in its cost per ASM.  The lower unit
costs were due to an extensive cost reduction effort and better utilization
of aircraft, facilities, equipment and people, as well as a 2% increase in
average seats per aircraft.  Average daily aircraft utilization increased
26% from 8.2 block hours to 10.3 block hours.  Horizon's operating expenses
increased 14% to $244.0 million on an 18% increase in capacity, resulting
in a 4% decline in its cost per ASM.  The lower unit costs were due to the
acquisition of higher capacity aircraft and cost reduction efforts.

Consilidated Other Income (Expense) was $34.0 million expense in 1994 compared
to $29.0 million expense in 1993.  The increase was primarily due to higher
interest rates on debt and higher average debt balances, offset by gains on
debt retirement and vendor credits.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
The table below presents the major indicators of financial condition and
liquidity.

                      December 31, 1995   December 31, 1994       Change
               (In millions, except ratios and per share amounts)

Cash and marketable securities   $135.1              $104.9       $ 30.2
Working capital (deficit)        (106.4)            (147.1)         40.7
Total assets                    1,313.4            1,315.8          (2.4)
Long-term debt
and capital lease obligations     522.4              589.9         (67.5)
Shareholders' equity              212.5              191.3          21.2

Book value per common share      $15.67              $14.27       $1.40

Debt/equity ratio              71%:29%             76%:24%           NA

1995 FINANCIAL CHANGES  The Company's cash and marketable securities
portfolio increased by $30 million during 1995.  Operating activities
provided $126 million of cash in 1995.  Additional cash was provided by
flight equipment deposits returned ($11 million), net short-term borrowings
($41 million), the sale and leaseback of two B737-400 aircraft ($56
million) and new long-term debt proceeds ($129 million).  Cash was used for
the purchase of one previously leased B737-400 aircraft, airframe and
engine overhauls and other capital expenditures ($103 million) and the
repayment of debt and capital lease obligations ($237 million).

Like many airlines, the Company has a working capital deficit.  The deficit
decreased during 1995 for a variety of factors including the sale and
leaseback of two B737-400 aircraft and the reclassification of an $18
million receivable from other assets to current assets.  The existence of a
working capital deficit has not in the past impaired the Company's ability
to meet its obligations as they become due and it is not expected to do so
in the future.

Financing Arrangements  In June 1995, the Company issued $132.3 million of
6-1/2% convertible senior debentures due 2005.  In August 1995, the Company
redeemed all of its 7-1/4% zero coupon, convertible subordinated notes for
$127.7 million.  In December 1995, Alaska: (a) sold and leased back one
B737-400 aircraft for 18 years; (b) extinguished capital lease obligations
of $27.4 million and subsequently sold and leased back one B737-400
aircraft for 18 years; (c) purchased one B737-400 aircraft that had been
treated as a capital lease; and (d) purchased another B737-400 aircraft that had
been treated as an operating lease.  Short-term borrowings of $46 million were
incurred to purchase the two B737-400 aircraft.  Alaska intends to repay
the short-term borrowings in 1996 when long-term financing is arranged for
these aircraft.

In August 1995, Standard & Poors lowered its corporate credit rating on Air
Group and Alaska to single B plus from double B minus, citing increased
competition in Alaska's West coast markets.

Commitments  During 1995, Alaska took delivery of two new MD-83 aircraft
under 16-year operating leases, and Horizon took delivery of three new
Dornier 328 aircraft (two of which are not in the operating fleet at
December 31, 1995) under 15-year operating leases.  In addition, Alaska
extended operating leases on four of its MD-80 aircraft for an average of
two years and agreed to lease two new B737-400 aircraft.

At December 31, 1995, the Company had firm orders for 14 aircraft with a
total cost of approximately $270 million as set forth below.
                                          Delivery Period - Firm Orders
Aircraft                                  1996     1997   1998    Total
Boeing B737-400                              1        1     --        2
Dornier 328                                  2        2      4        8
McDonnell Douglas MD-83                      2        2     --        4
Total                                        5        5      4       14

Cost (Millions)                           $120     $120    $30     $270

Operating leases have been completed for the B737-400 and Dornier 328
orders.  The Company expects to finance the MD-83s with either leases, long-
term debt or internally generated cash.

The Company accrues the costs associated with returning leased aircraft
over the lease period.  At December 31, 1995, $33 million was reserved for
leased aircraft returns.

Deferred Taxes  At December 31, 1995, net deferred tax liabilities were $30
million, which includes $101 million of net temporary differences, offset
by $42 million of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and $29 million of
Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) credits.  The Company believes that all of
its deferred tax assets, including the NOL and AMT credits, will be
realized through the reversal of existing temporary differences or tax
planning strategies such as the sale of aircraft.

New Accounting Standards  During 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued FAS 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets,
and FAS 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  FAS 121 will be
adopted in 1996 and is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.  The Company plans
to continue to measure compensation cost of employee stock option plans
using the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and,
starting in 1996, to make pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings
per share as if the fair value method prescribed by FAS 123 had been
applied.

1994 FINANCIAL CHANGES  Cash and marketable securities increased by $4
million in 1994.  Operations generated $144 million, proceeds from
financing four new MD-83 aircraft were $104 million, and net short-term
borrowings added $5 million.  Cash was used for the repayment of debt ($71
million), and capital expenditures ($189 million).  During 1994, Alaska
restructured its 20 B737-400 aircraft leases.  The fixed term of the leases
was increased from eight years to ten years.  As a result of the
restructuring, Alaska expects to save more than $6 million per year over
the term of the leases.  As part of the restructuring, Alaska purchased one
of the leased aircraft in 1994, agreed to purchase one each in 1995 and
1996, and received options to purchase up to four more of the 20 between
1997 and 1999.  Capital lease obligations increased $57.9 million due to
changes in the lease agreements for two B737-400 aircraft that were
previously classified as operating leases.  Also during 1994, Alaska
further restructured its aircraft orders with McDonnell Douglas, replacing
an order for ten MD-90s plus options with an order for four MD-83s.  This
restructuring will reduce future capital spending by $360 million.

1993 FINANCIAL CHANGES  Cash and marketable securities increased by $18
million in 1993.  Operations generated $49 million, proceeds from aircraft
financing were $84 million, and short-term borrowings added $20 million.
Cash was used for the repayment of debt ($79 million), the repurchase of
preferred stock ($33 million), and capital expenditures ($30 million).
During 1993, the Company repurchased all of its outstanding redeemable
preferred stock for $60 million, saving the Company more than $4 million
annually after taxes.  The seller provided a $27 million loan to assist
with the stock purchase.

EFFECT OF INFLATION  Inflation and specific price changes do not have a
significant effect on the Company's operating revenues, operating expenses
and operating income, because such revenues and expenses generally reflect
current price levels.

ITEM 8.     CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
See Item 14.

ITEM 9.     DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.

PART III
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
See "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group's Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 21, 1996.  See "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in
Part I following Item 4 for information relating to executive officers.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
See "Executive Compensation," incorporated herein by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group's Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 21, 1996.

ITEM 12.        SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT
See "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,"
incorporated herein by reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for
Air Group's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 21, 1996.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
See "Transactions with Management and Others," incorporated herein by
reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group's Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 21, 1996.

PART IV
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
          ON FORM 8-K
(a)  Consolidated Financial Statements:                      Page(s)
Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (Unaudited)  4
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1995 and 1994    18-19
Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
   December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                               20
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
   December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                               21
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended
   December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                               22
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                     23-30
Report of Independent Public Accountants                          31

Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and
 Qualifying Accounts, for the years ended
 December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                                 32

See Exhibit Index on page 33.

(b)  Alaska Air Group did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the
fourth quarter of 1995.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

By:  /s/ John F. Kelly                                  Date: February 8, 1996
      John F. Kelly, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on February 8, 1996
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

   /s/ John F. Kelly   Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,
                       President and Director
     John F. Kelly

   /s/ Harry G. Lehr   Senior Vice President/Finance
     Harry G. Lehr     (Principal Financial Officer)

   /s/ Bradley D. Tilden            Controller
     Bradley D. Tilden   (Principal Accounting Officer)

   /s/ William H. Clapp             Director
     William H. Clapp

   /s/ Ronald F. Cosgrave           Director
     Ronald F. Cosgrave

   /s/ Mary Jane Fate               Director
     Mary Jane Fate

   /s/ Bruce R. Kennedy             Director
     Bruce R. Kennedy

   /s/ R. Marc Langland             Director
     R. Marc Langland

   Not available                    Director
     Byron I. Mallott

   /s/ Robert L. Parker, Jr.        Director
     Robert L. Parker, Jr.

   /s/ Richard A. Wien              Director
     Richard A. Wien









NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Alaska Air Group, Inc.
December 31, 1995


Note 1.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Alaska Air
Group, Inc. (Company or Air Group) and its subsidiaries, the principal
subsidiaries being Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air
Industries, Inc. (Horizon).  All significant intercompany transactions are
eliminated.  Preparation of financial statements requires the use of
management's estimates.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Certain reclassifications have been made in prior years' financial
statements to conform to the 1995 presentation.

Both subsidiaries operate as airlines.  However, each subsidiary's business
plan, competition and economic risks differ substantially due to the
passenger capacity and range of aircraft operated.  Alaska is a major
airline serving Alaska, the West Coast, Mexico and Eastern Russia.  It
operates an all jet fleet and its average passenger trip is 846 miles.
Horizon is a regional airline serving the Pacific Northwest, Northern
California and Western Canada.  It operates both jet and turboprop
aircraft, and its average passenger trip is 221 miles.  See Note 10 for
business segment information.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less. They are carried at cost, which
approximates market.

Inventories and Supplies
Expendable and repairable aircraft parts, as well as materials and
supplies, are stated at average cost.  An allowance for obsolescence is
accrued on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
aircraft.  Inventories related to the retired B727 fleet and other surplus
items are carried at their net realizable value.  The allowance at December
31, 1995 and 1994 for all inventories was $13.5 million and $12.1 million,
respectively.

Property, Equipment and Depreciation
Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated using the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which are as
follows:
Aircraft and other
 flight equipment        8-20 years
Buildings                10-30 years
Capitalized leases and
 leasehold improvements  Term of lease
Other equipment          3-15 years

Effective January 1, 1995, the estimated salvage value of MD-80 flight
equipment was changed to 5% from 20%.  The new estimate was adopted to
recognize the lower expected salvage values for this aircraft type.  The
effect of the change on the year ended December 31, 1995 was to increase
depreciation expense by $4.9 million and decrease net income by $3.0
million ($.22 per share).

Assets and related obligations for items financed under capital leases are
initially recorded at an amount equal to the present value of the future
minimum lease payments.  The cost of major airframe overhauls, engine
overhauls, and other modifications which extend the life or improve the
usefulness of aircraft are capitalized and amortized over their estimated
period of use.  Other repair and maintenance costs are expensed when
incurred.

Capitalized Interest
Interest is capitalized on flight equipment purchase deposits and ground
facilities progress payments as a cost of the related asset and is
depreciated over the estimated useful life of the asset.  Interest
capitalization is suspended when there is a substantial delay in aircraft
deliveries.

Intangible Assets-Subsidiaries
The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is
recorded as an intangible asset and is amortized over 40 years.
Accumulated amortization at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was $19.1 million
and $17.0 million, respectively.

Deferred Income
Deferred income results from the sale and leaseback of aircraft, the
receipt of manufacturer or vendor credits, and from the sale of foreign tax
benefits.  This income is recognized over the term of the applicable
agreements.

Passenger Revenues
Passenger revenues are considered earned at the time transportation service
is provided.  Tickets sold but not yet used are reported as air traffic
liability.

Frequent Flyer Awards
Alaska operates a frequent flyer award program that provides travel awards
to members based on accumulated mileage.  The estimated incremental cost of
providing free travel is recognized as an expense and accrued as a
liability as miles are accumulated.  Alaska also defers recognition of
income on a portion of the payments it receives from travel partners
associated with its frequent flyer program.  The frequent flyer liability
is relieved as travel awards are used.

Advertising
The costs of advertising are expensed the first time the advertising takes
place.  Advertising expense was $15.2 million, $13.0 million, and $16.8
million, respectively, in 1995, 1994 and 1993

Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, which requires the recognition of deferred
tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of
events that have been recognized in the Company's financial statements or
tax returns.

Earnings Per Share
Primary earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income after
reduction for any preferred stock dividends by the average number of common
shares and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding.  Common stock
equivalents result from the assumed exercise of stock options.  Fully
diluted earnings per share gives effect to the conversion of convertible
debt (after elimination of related interest expense, net of income tax
effect).

Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to hedge interest
rate risk.  The differential to be paid or received from these agreements
is accrued as interest rates change and is recognized currently in the
income statement.  The Company enters into hedge agreements to reduce its
exposure to fluctuations in the price of jet fuel.  A gain or loss is
recorded quarterly if the fuel index average exceeds the ceiling price or
falls below the floor price.

Note 2.       Marketable Securities
Marketable securities are investments that are readily convertible to cash
and have original maturity dates that exceed three months.  They are
classified as available for sale and consisted of the following at December
31 (in millions):
                     1995    1994
Cost:
U.S. govt. sec.    $102.8   $78.0
Other                 6.5    15.3
                   $109.3   $93.3
Fair value:
U.S. govt. sec.    $103.1   $76.6
Other                 6.6    15.0
                   $109.7   $91.6
Gross unrealized holding gains:
U.S. govt. sec.      $ .4    $ --
Other                  --      --
                     $ .4    $ --
Gross unrealized holding losses:
U.S. govt. sec.      $ --    $1.5
Other                  --      .2
                     $ --    $1.7

Of the marketable securities on hand at December 31, 1995, all will mature
during 1997.  Based on specific identification of securities sold, the
following occurred in 1995 and 1994 (in millions):
                             1995    1994
Proceeds from sales        $153.5   $56.8
Gross realized gains           .3      --
Gross realized losses          .5      .5

The above realized gains and losses are included in 1995 interest income of
$10.4 million.

Note 3. Other Assets
Other assets consisted of the following at December 31 (in millions):
                     1995    1994
Restricted deposits $64.2   $66.9
Leasehold rights     11.2    14.1
Deferred costs       18.2    16.0
Receivables           3.8    21.2
                    $97.4  $118.2

Leasehold rights and deferred costs are amortized over the term of the
related lease or contract.  At December 31, 1995, deferred costs include
$4.2 million of capitalized training costs associated with the B737-400
aircraft.  These costs are being amortized over a five-year period which
began in April 1992.

Note 4.    Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
At December 31, 1995 and 1994, long-term debt and capital lease
obligations were as follows (in millions):
                                     1995      1994
8.2%* notes payable due
 through 2009                       $335.1    $375.9
6-1/2% convertible senior
 debentures due 2005                 132.3      --
7-3/4% convertible subordinated
 debentures due 2006-2010             10.8      14.4
6-7/8% convertible subordinated
 debentures due 2004-2014             54.0      54.0
7-1/4% zero coupon,
 convertible subordinated
 notes due 2006                       --       129.4
Long-term debt                       532.2     573.7
Capital lease obligations             29.9      88.2
Less current portion                 (39.7)    (72.0)
                                    $522.4    $589.9
* weighted average for 1995

During 1995, the Company issued $132.3 million of 6-1/2% convertible
senior debentures due 2005.  Each debenture is convertible into common
stock at $21.50 per share.  In addition, the Company redeemed all of its 7-
1/4% zero coupon, convertible subordinated notes for $127.7 million.

At December 31, 1995, borrowings of $330.7 million are secured by flight
equipment and real property.  The 7-3/4% and 6-7/8% debentures are
convertible into common stock at $28.25 and $33.60 per share, respectively,
subject to adjustments in certain events.

At December 31, 1995, Alaska had a $75 million credit facility with
commercial banks.  Advances under this facility may either be for up to a
364-day term, or up to a maximum maturity of three years.  Borrowings may
be used for aircraft acquisitions or other corporate purposes, and they
bear interest at a rate which varies based on LIBOR.  Certain Alaska loan
agreements contain provisions that require maintenance of specific levels
of net worth, leverage and fixed charge coverage, and limit investments,
lease obligations, sales of assets and additional indebtedness.  At
December 31, 1995, the Company was in compliance with all loan provisions,
and under the most restrictive loan provisions, Alaska had $30.8 million of
net worth above the minimum.

At December 31, 1995, long-term debt principal payments for the next five
years were (in millions):
1996                        $37.6
1997                        $34.7
1998                        $35.7
1999                        $53.5
2000                        $59.8

Note 5. Commitments
Lease Commitments
Lease contracts for 114 aircraft have remaining lease terms of one to 17
years.  The majority of airport and terminal facilities are also leased.
Total rent expense was $201.9 million, $196.9 million and $180.4 million,
in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Future minimum lease payments under
capital leases and long-term operating leases as of December 31, 1995 are
shown below (in millions):
               Capital
                Leases   Operating Leases              Total
                        Aircraft     Facilities
1996           $ 4.1      $173.8          $15.2       $193.1
1997             4.1       165.1           14.0        183.2
1998             4.1       153.7           13.7        171.5
1999             4.1       142.0           13.6        159.7
2000             4.1       132.8           11.9        148.8
Thereafter      15.1       717.5           30.2        762.8
Total lease
payments        35.6    $1,484.9          $98.6     $1,619.1
Less amount
representing
interest         5.7
Present value
of capital lease
payments       $29.9

Aircraft Commitments
The Company has firm orders for 8 Dornier 328s to be delivered between 1996
and 1998, and four MD-83s and two B737-400s to be delivered in 1996 and
1997.  The total amount of these commitments is approximately $270 million.
As of December 31, 1995, deposits related to the future equipment
deliveries were $33.0 million.  In addition to the ordered aircraft, the
Company holds purchase options on 40 Dornier 328s.

Note 6. Stock Plans
Air Group has two stock option plans, which provide for the purchase of Air
Group common stock at its market price on the date of grant by certain
officers and key employees of Air Group and its subsidiaries.  Under the
plans, the incentive and non qualified stock options granted have terms of
up to approximately ten years.  Up to half of the options provide for stock
appreciation rights.  Changes in the number of shares subject to option are
summarized as follows:
                          1995           1994           1993
Outstanding, beginning
  of year            1,044,143        861,362        770,420
Granted(a)             425,500        330,200        172,200
Exercised            (165,005)       (58,469)       (12,600)
Canceled             (143,050)       (88,950)       (68,658)
Outstanding, end
  of year            1,161,588      1,044,143        861,362

Exercisable, end
  of year(b)           596,338        644,843        542,012

Available for granting
  in future periods    102,250        409,000        701,867

Average price of options:
Exercised
 during the year        $16.11         $13.65         $14.65
Outstanding
 at year-end            $16.56         $17.15         $17.06

(a) The average price of the options granted in 1995 was $15.37
(b) Options exercisable at year-end 1995 expire between June 1996 and June
   2004.

In addition, 2,273,700 shares of common stock are subject to
nontransferable investment options held by management employees, for which
the Company received $3.1 million, which is included with other liabilities
on the Balance Sheet.  These options are subject to mandatory redemption at
$3.1 million in February 1997, and they allow the holder to purchase common
stock at $27 per share until that date.

Note 7. Employee Benefit Plans
Pension Plans
Four defined benefit and five defined contribution retirement plans cover
various employee groups of Alaska and Horizon.  The defined benefit plans
provide benefits based on an employee's term of service and average
compensation for a specified period of time before retirement.  Pension
plans are funded as required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974 (ERISA).

The defined benefit plan assets are primarily invested in common stocks and
fixed income securities.  Plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1995 and 1994.  The following table sets forth
the funded status of the plans at December 31, 1995 and 1994 (in millions):
                      1995   1994
Benefit obligation -
 Vested              $155.8 $114.9
 Nonvested             22.0   15.8
Accumulated benefit
  obligation         $177.8 $130.7

Plan assets
at fair value        $184.4 $144.1
Projected benefit
obligation            199.9  147.2
Plan assets less
 projected benefit
 obligation          (15.5)  (3.1)
Unrecognized
 transition asset     (1.1)  (1.4)
Unrecognized prior
 service cost           2.8    3.5
Unrecognized loss      32.6   15.9

Prepaid pension cost  $18.8  $14.9

The weighted average discount rate used to determine the projected benefit
obligation was 7.5% and 9.0% as of December 31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The calculation assumed a weighted average rate of increase
for future compensation levels of 5.1% and 5.2% for 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in
1995 and 1994 was 10%.

Net pension expense for the defined benefit plans included the following
components for 1995, 1994 and 1993 (in millions):
                                 1995         1994        1993
Service cost (benefits
 earned during the
 period)                       $11.4       $12.4        $10.0
Interest cost on projected
 benefit obligation             12.9        11.9         10.4
Actual return on  assets        (37.0)       (2.1)       (14.1)
Net amortization
 and deferral                    23.3       (10.9)         2.3

Net pension expense             $10.6        $11.3        $8.6

The defined contribution plans are deferred compensation plans under
section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Some of these plans require
Company matching contributions based on a percentage of participants'
contributions.  One plan has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
feature.  The ESOP owns Air Group common shares which are held in trust for
eligible employees.  The Company has recorded deferred compensation to
reflect the value of the shares not yet allocated to eligible employees'
accounts.  As these shares are allocated to employees, compensation expense
is recorded and deferred compensation is reduced.

Alaska and Horizon also maintain an unfunded, noncontributory benefit plan
for certain elected officers.  The present value of unfunded benefits for
this plan was accrued as of December 31, 1995 and 1994.

Total expense for all pension plans was $22.2 million, $22.5 million and
$19.8 million,  respectively, in 1995, 1994 and 1993.
Profit Sharing Plans
Alaska and Horizon have employee profit sharing plans.  Profit sharing
expense for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $-0- million, $3.6 million and $2.3
million, respectively.

Other Postretirement Benefits
The Company allows retirees to continue their medical, dental and vision
benefits by paying the respective active employee plan premium until age
65.  This results in a subsidy to retirees because the premiums received by
the Company are less than the actual cost of the retirees' claims.

The following table sets forth the status of the postretirement benefit
obligation at December 31, 1995 and 1994 (in millions):
                                           1995           1994
Accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation (APBO):
 Retirees                                  $1.4            $.9
 Active plan participants
   eligible for retirement                  2.9            1.7
 Active plan participants not
   eligible for retirement                  7.8            4.9
Unrecognized prior service cost             (.3)           (.3)
Unrecognized actuarial gain                  .3            3.2
Accrued postretirement benefit cost       $12.1          $10.4

The Company's APBO is unfunded.  Net annual postretirement benefit costs
for 1995, 1994 and 1993 include the following components (in millions):
                                 1995         1994        1993
Service cost - benefits
 attributed to service
 during the period                $.7         $.7          $.6
Interest on APBO                   .7          .6           .6
Net postretirement
 benefit cost                    $1.4        $1.3         $1.2

An 8.0% health care cost trend rate was assumed for 1996.  The rate was
assumed to decrease by 1/2% annually to 5.5% for 2001 and remain at that
level thereafter.  Increasing the rate by 1 percentage point in each year
would increase the APBO as of December 31, 1995 by $1.8 million and the net
periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1995 by $.2 million.  The weighted-
average discount rates used in determining the APBO for 1995 and 1994 were
7.5% and 9.0%, respectively.

Note 8. Special Charges
Results for 1993 include special charges of $15 million to recognize an
impairment of the value of the Boeing B727 fleet.  The special charges
include reserves for future excess lease costs and the write-down of
capitalized overhauls and spare parts to net realizable value.

Note 9. Income Taxes
The components of income tax expense (credit) were as follows (in
millions):
                                 1995         1994        1993
Current tax expense (credit):
 Federal                        $ 5.0       $ 8.0       $ (4.9)
 State                             .3          .1          (.3)
Total current                     5.3         8.1         (5.2)
Deferred tax expense (credit):
 Federal                          9.2         8.0         (8.2)
 State                            2.2         2.4         (1.5)
Total deferred                   11.4        10.4         (9.7)
Total tax expense (credit)      $16.7       $18.5       $(14.9)

Income tax expense (credit) reconciles to the amount computed by applying
the U.S. federal rate of 35% to income before taxes as follows (in
millions):
                                 1995         1994        1993
Income (loss) before
  income tax                    $34.0       $41.0       $(45.8)
Expected tax
  expense (credit)              $11.9       $14.3       $(16.0)
Nondeductible expense             3.0         2.4          1.2
Federal rate change              --          --            1.0
State income tax                  1.8         1.5         (1.2)
Other - net                      --            .3           .1
Actual tax expense (credit)     $16.7       $18.5       $(14.9)

Effective tax rate               49.1%       45.1%        32.5%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the timing of
recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial reporting
purposes.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise the following at
December 31 (in millions):

                                      1995      1994
Excess of tax over book
  depreciation                      $140.6    $117.1
Training expense                       1.5       2.2
Other - net                           --         1.3
Gross deferred tax liabilities       142.1     120.6
Loss carryforward                    (42.1)    (38.3)
Alternative minimum tax              (29.3)    (24.5)
Capital leases                        (3.1)     (4.5)
Pricing adjustment                    (1.2)     (1.2)
Frequent flyer program                (6.6)     (6.5)
Employee benefits                     (9.2)    (11.8)
Aircraft maintenance                 (16.3)     (7.7)
Gain on sale of assets                (2.3)     (5.5)
Capitalized interest                  (1.6)     (1.6)
Gross deferred tax assets           (111.7)   (101.6)
Net deferred tax liabilities        $ 30.4    $ 19.0

Current deferred tax asset         $ (10.6)   $ (9.6)
Noncurrent deferred tax liability     41.0      28.6
Net deferred tax liabilities        $ 30.4    $ 19.0

After consideration of temporary differences, taxable income for 1995 was
approximately $4 million, which was offset by net operating losses
generated in prior years.  Federal loss carryforwards can be used through
year 2007.
Note 10.      Business Segment Information
Financial information for Alaska and Horizon follows (in millions):
                                 1995         1994        1993
Operating revenues:
  Alaska                     $1,142.3    $1,061.6      $ 906.8
  Horizon                       279.5       256.9        223.3
Operating income (loss):
  Alaska                         72.4        62.9        (24.3)
  Horizon                         4.3        12.9          8.8
Total assets:
  Alaska                      1,266.5     1,245.0      1,037.5
  Horizon                       154.9       152.3        141.9
Depreciation and amortization  expense:
  Alaska                         58.2        47.7         49.0
  Horizon                         9.9         8.7          9.3
Capital expenditures:
  Alaska                         87.9       173.1         21.1
  Horizon                        15.4        15.5          8.8

Note 11. Financial Instruments
The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments were as
follows (in millions):
                  December 31, 1995
                                  Carrying      Fair
                                    Amount     Value
Cash and cash equivalents           $ 25.8    $ 25.8
Marketable securities                109.3     109.7
Restricted deposits                   64.2      64.2
Long-term receivables                  3.8       3.8
Long-term debt                       532.2     521.9

                  December 31, 1994
                                  Carrying      Fair
                                    Amount     Value
Cash and cash equivalents           $ 11.6    $ 11.6
Marketable securities                 93.3      91.6
Restricted deposits                   66.9      66.9
Long-term receivables                 21.2      21.2
Long-term debt                       573.7     549.0

The fair value of cash equivalents approximates carrying value due to the
short maturity of these instruments.  The fair value of marketable
securities is based on quoted market prices.  The fair values of
restricted deposits and long-term receivables approximate the carrying
amounts.  The fair value of publicly traded long-term debt is based on
quoted market prices, and the fair value of other debt approximates
carrying value.

During 1993, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement to
hedge a portion of its fixed rate debt.  The agreement, which expires in
1996, effectively changes the Company's interest rate on the debt from a
fixed rate to a floating rate based on LIBOR.

Variable interest payments are paid to a financial institution semi-
annually based on a notional principal amount of $201 million.  In 1996,
the Company will receive a $33.2 million payment from the financial
institution.  At December 31, 1995, $29.7 million of this amount (which
approximates the fair value of this financial instrument) is shown
as a receivable in current assets.  The Company is exposed to higher
interest payments if LIBOR increases and is exposed to credit loss in the
event of nonperformance by the financial institution.  Through December
31, 1995, this swap has resulted in a $.5 million net reduction in
interest expense.

The Company enters into hedge agreements to reduce its exposure to
fluctuations in the price of jet fuel.  The agreements establish a ceiling
price and floor price, and they provide for quarterly measurements of the
average price of fuel, as determined by an index.  The Company records a
gain or loss if a quarterly average exceeds the ceiling or falls below the
floor.  The fuel hedges had no material effect on 1995 operating results.
At December 31, 1995, the Company had a fuel hedge agreement in place with
a ceiling price of 70 cents covering approximately 45% of the expected fuel
usage through July 1996, and a floor price of 42 cents covering
approximately 45% of the expected fuel usage through July 1996.  At
December 31, 1995, the fuel index was at 56 cents.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Alaska Air Group, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Alaska Air
Group, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1995.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.  The schedule listed in Item 14(a)
is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not a required part of the basic financial
statements.  This schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures
applied in our audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.



                                              /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Seattle, Washington
January 25, 1996



EXHIBIT INDEX

Certain of the following exhibits have heretofore been filed with the
Commission and are incorporated herein by reference from the document
described in parenthesis.  Certain others are filed herewith.

3.(i)  Certificate of Incorporation of Alaska Air Group, Inc. as amended
       through May 20, 1987 (Exhibit 3-01 to 1987 10-K).
*3.(ii) Bylaws of Alaska Air Group, Inc., as amended through February 8, 1996.
  4.1  Rights Agreement dated as of December 2, 1986 between Alaska Air Group,
       Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent (Exhibit No.
       1 to Form 8A filed December 12, 1986).
 10.1  Lease and Assignment of Sublease Agreement dated February 1, 1979
       between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and the Alaska Industrial Development
       Authority (Exhibit 10-15 to Registration Statement No. 2-70742).
 10.2  Lease and Assignment and Sublease Agreement dated April 1, 1978 between
       Alaska Airlines, Inc. and the Alaska Industrial Development Authority
       (Exhibit 10-16 to Registration Statement No. 2-70742).
 10.3  Management Incentive Plan (1992 Alaska Air Group, Inc. Proxy Statement).
 10.4  Loan Agreement dated as of December 1, 1984, between Alaska Airlines,
       Inc. and the Industrial Development Corporation of the Port of Seattle
       (Exhibit 10-38 to 1984 10-K).
 10.5  Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended through May 7,
       1992.
 10.6  Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan (1995 Alaska Air Group, Inc.
       Proxy Statement).
 10.7  Severance agreement between Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Raymond J. Vecci
       (1995 Alaska Air Group, Inc. Proxy Statement).
 10.8  Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended through
       May 19, 1992 (Registration Statement No. 33-523242).
 10.9  Purchase Agreement between McDonnell Douglas Corporation and Alaska
       Airlines, Inc. DAC 88-36-D, dated October 14, 1988 (Exhibit 10-17 to
       1988 10-K).
10.10  Capital Performance Plan (Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement 33-
       33087).
#10.11 Lease Agreement dated January 22, 1990 between International Lease
       Finance Corporation and Alaska Airlines, Inc. for the lease of a B737-
       400 aircraft, summaries of 19 substantially identical lease agreements
       for 19 additional B737-400 aircraft and Letter Agreement #1 dated
       January 22, 1990 (Exhibit 10-14 to 1990 10-K).
#10.12 Purchase Agreement dated as of May 15, 1991, between Horizon Air
       Industries, Inc. and Dornier Luftfahrt GmbH for the purchase of up to 60
       Dornier 328 aircraft (Exhibit 10-19 to May 30, 1991 8-K).
#10.13 Amendment dated as of June 25, 1993 to the Purchase Agreement dated
       as of May 15, 1991, between Horizon Air Industries, Inc. and Dornier
       Luftfahrt GmbH for the purchase of up to 60 Dornier 328 aircraft
       (Exhibit 10-19a to Second Quarter 1993  10-Q).
  *11  Computation of Earnings Per Common Share
  *12  Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred
       Dividends
   21  Subsidiaries of the Registrant (Exhibit 22-01 to 1987 10-K)
  *23  Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP
  *27  Financial Data Schedule
* Filed herewith.
# Confidential treatment was granted as to a portion of this document.


