10-K405


form-10k_11090.htm

ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC. FORM 10-K

WWW.EXFILE.COM - 11089 - ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC. - 2001 FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

/X/

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

[NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

OR

/  /

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

[NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from

to

Commission File Number 1-8957

ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

91-1292054

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

19300 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, Washington 98188

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code: (206) 431-7040

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Rights to Purchase Series A Participating Preferred Stock

New York Stock Exchange

As of December 31, 2001, common
shares outstanding totaled 26,528,368. The aggregate market value of the common
shares of Alaska Air Group, Inc. held by nonaffiliates, 26,478,841 shares,
was approximately $771 million (based on the closing price of these shares,
$29.10, on the New York Stock Exchange on such date).

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/ No /  /

Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/

DOCUMENTS TO BE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Title of Document

Part Hereof Into Which Document to be Incorporated

Definitive Proxy Statement Relating to 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

Part III

Exhibit Index begins on page 46.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

GENERAL INFORMATION

Alaska Air Group, Inc. (Air Group or the Company) is a holding company that was
incorporated in Delaware in 1985. Its two principal subsidiaries are Alaska
Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries, Inc. (Horizon). Both
subsidiaries operate as airlines, although their business plans, competition,
and economic risks differ substantially. Alaska is a major airline, operates an
all-jet fleet, and its average passenger trip length is 896 miles. Horizon is a
regional airline, operates jet and turboprop aircraft, and its average passenger
trip is 289 miles. Individual financial information for Alaska and Horizon is
reported in Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Air Group’s executive
offices are located at 19300 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, Washington 98188.
The business of the Company is somewhat seasonal. Quarterly operating income
tends to peak during the third quarter.

Alaska

Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and
incorporated in 1937. Alaska principally serves 36 cities in six western states
(Alaska, Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada, and Arizona), Vancouver, Canada
and six cities in Mexico. Alaska also provides non-stop service between
Anchorage and Chicago and between Seattle and Washington D.C. In each year since
1973, Alaska has carried more passengers between Alaska and the U.S. mainland
than any other airline. In 2001, Alaska carried 13.7 million revenue passengers.
Passenger traffic within Alaska and between Alaska and the U.S. mainland
accounted for 24% of Alaska’s 2001 revenue passenger miles, West Coast traffic
(including Vancouver, Canada) accounted for 66% and the Mexico markets 10%.
Based on passenger enplanements, Alaska’s leading airports are Seattle,
Portland, Los Angeles, and Anchorage. Based on revenues, its leading nonstop
routes are Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles, and Seattle-San Diego. At
December 31, 2001, Alaska’s operating fleet consisted of 101 jet aircraft.

Horizon

Horizon, a Washington corporation, began service in 1981 and was acquired by Air
Group in 1986. It is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest, and
serves 36 cities in six states (Washington, Oregon, Montana, Idaho, California,
and Arizona) and five cities in Canada. In 2001, Horizon carried 4.7 million
revenue passengers. Based on passenger enplanements, Horizon’s leading airports
are Seattle, Portland, Boise, and Spokane. Based on revenues, its leading
nonstop routes are Seattle-Portland, Seattle-Boise, and Seattle-Vancouver. At
December 31, 2001, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of 19 jet and 41
turboprop aircraft, with the jets providing 56% of the 2001 capacity. Horizon
flights are listed under the Alaska Airlines designator code in airline computer
reservation systems.

Alaska and Horizon integrate their flight schedules to provide the best possible
service between any two points served by their systems. In 2001, 28% of
Horizon’s passengers connected to Alaska. Both airlines distinguish themselves
from competitors by providing a higher level of customer service. The airlines’
excellent service in the form of advance seat assignments, expedited check-in,
attention to customer needs, high-quality food and beverage service,
well-maintained aircraft, a first-class section aboard Alaska aircraft, and
other amenities is regularly recognized by independent studies and surveys of
air travelers.


Alliances with Other Airlines

Alaska and Horizon have marketing alliances with other airlines that provide
reciprocal frequent flyer mileage accrual and redemption privileges and
codesharing on certain flights as set forth below. Alliances enhance Alaska’s
and Horizon’s revenues by (a) providing our customers more value by offering
them more travel destinations and better mileage accrual/redemption
opportunities, (b) gaining us access to more connecting traffic from other
airlines, and (c) providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer
programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and Horizon while earning mileage
credit in the alliance partners’ programs.

Frequent

Flyer

Agreement

Codesharing–

Alaska Flight #

on Flights Operated

by Other Airline

Codesharing–

Other Airline Flight #

On Flights Operated

by Alaska/Horizon

Major U.S. or

International Airlines

American Airlines

Yes

Yes

No

British Airways

Yes

No

No

Continental Airlines

Yes

Yes

Yes

Hawaiian Airlines

Yes

Yes

Yes

KLM

Yes

No

Yes

Lan Chile

Yes

No

Yes

Northwest Airlines

Yes

Yes

Yes

Qantas

Yes

No

Yes

Commuter Airlines

American Eagle

Yes*

Yes

No

Era Aviation

Yes*

Yes

No

PenAir

Yes*

Yes

No

* This airline does not have its own frequent flyer program.
However, Alaska’s Mileage Plan members can accrue and redeem miles on this
airline’s route system.

Recent developments

On September 11, 2001, the United States was attacked by terrorists using four
hijacked jets of two U.S. airlines. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
shut down all commercial airline flight operations for September 11 and 12. The
Company resumed flight operations at reduced levels on September 13. These
events, combined with slowing economic conditions, had a significant negative
impact on demand for airline travel. Throughout the industry, airlines cut
capacity and instituted a variety of cost-saving measures.

The attacks had a significant impact on the operating results of the Company. In
the 4th quarter of 2001, Alaska reduced its flight schedule by approximately 13%
and Horizon reduced its schedule by approximately 20%. However, the Company was
not able to proportionally reduce operating costs due to the fixed costs the
Company continued to incur, such as aircraft rent and contract guaranteed wages.
Also, as a result of the terrorist attacks, credit rating agencies downgraded
the long-term credit ratings of most U.S. airlines and their related entities,
including Alaska Air Group, Inc.

On September 22, 2001, the U.S. Government passed the Air Transportation Safety
and System Stabilization Act (the Act) to provide $5 billion of cash
compensation and $10 billion of loan guarantees to U.S. airlines. The purpose of
the Act was to compensate the airlines for direct and incremental losses for the
period September 11 through December 31, 2001 as a result of the


September 11 terrorist attacks. As of December 31, 2001, Alaska had received
$71.6 million and Horizon had received $8.3 million of the $5 billion cash
compensation.

Security

On November 19, 2001 the U.S. Government enacted the Aviation and Transportation
Security Act (the Security Act). The Security Act provides for the establishment
of the Transportation Security Administration (the TSA) within the United States
Department of Transportation (DOT), which will be responsible for aviation
security. The TSA is to assume security functions for the FAA and passenger
screening functions currently performed or contracted by the airlines by
February 17, 2002. By November 19, 2002, the TSA will be responsible for all
passenger, baggage, and cargo screening functions and security, utilizing
Federal employees. Also under the Security Act, effective in February 2002, a
$2.50 per enplanement security fee (maximum $5.00 per one-way trip) was imposed
on passengers. The TSA may also impose a fee upon air carriers to pay the
difference between security costs and the amount collected from the fee, limited
to what the carrier paid in 2000 for security.

BUSINESS RISKS

The Company’s operations and financial results are subject to various
uncertainties, such as intense competition, volatile fuel prices, a largely
unionized labor force, the need to finance large capital expenditures,
government regulation, potential aircraft incidents and general economic
conditions. This report may contain forward-looking statements that are based on
the best information currently available to management. The forward-looking
statements are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are indicated by phrases
such as “the Company believes,” “we anticipate” or any other language indicating
a prediction of future events. Whether these statements are ultimately accurate
depends on a number of outside factors that the Company cannot predict or
control. The Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statement. The following discussion of business risks sets forth
the principal foreseeable risks and uncertainties that may materially affect
these predictions.

Competition

Competition in the air transportation industry is intense. Any domestic air
carrier deemed fit by the DOT is allowed to operate scheduled passenger service
in the United States. Together, Alaska and Horizon carry approximately 2.5% of
all U.S. domestic passenger traffic. Alaska and Horizon compete with one or more
domestic or foreign airlines on most of their routes. Some of these competitors
are substantially larger than Alaska and Horizon, have greater financial
resources, and have more extensive route systems. Due to its shorthaul markets,
Horizon also competes with the automobile.

Most major U.S. carriers have developed, independently or in partnership with
others, large computerized reservation systems (CRS). Airlines, including Alaska
and Horizon, are charged industry-set fees to have their flight schedules
included in the various CRS displays used by travel agents and airlines. These
systems are currently the predominant means of distributing airline tickets. In
order to reduce anti-competitive practices, the DOT regulates the display of all
airline schedules and fares. Air carriers are increasingly distributing their
services on the Internet through various airline joint venture or independent
websites. The Company currently


participates in a number of these distribution channels, but it cannot predict
the terms on which it may be able to continue to participate in these or other
sites, or their effect on the Company’s ability to compete with other airlines.

Fuel

Fuel costs were 14.3% of the Company’s total operating expenses in 2001. Fuel
prices, which can be volatile and are largely outside of the Company’s control,
can have a significant impact on the Company’s operating results. Currently, a
one-cent change in the fuel price per gallon affects annual fuel costs by
approximately $3.7 million. The Company believes that operating fuel-efficient
aircraft is an effective hedge against high fuel prices. The Company also
purchases fuel hedge contracts to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the
price of jet fuel. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results
of Operations and Financial Condition” for a discussion of the Company’s fuel
hedging activities.

Unionized Labor Force

Labor costs were 35% of the Company’s total operating expenses in 2001. Wage
rates can have a significant impact on the Company’s operating results. At
December 31, 2001, labor unions represented 84% of Alaska’s and 46% of Horizon’s
employees. The air transportation industry is regulated under the Railway Labor
Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board certain regulatory powers with
respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions. The Company cannot
predict the outcome of union contract negotiations or whether the terms of its
labor contracts will hinder its ability to compete effectively. Nor can the
Company control the variety of actions (e.g. work stoppage or slowdown) unions
might take to try to influence those negotiations.

Leverage and Future Capital Requirements

The Company, like many airlines, is relatively highly leveraged, which increases
the volatility of its earnings. Due to its high fixed costs, including aircraft
lease commitments, a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately
greater decrease in earnings. In addition, the Company has an ongoing need to
finance new aircraft deliveries, and there is no assurance that such financing
will be available in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. See Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition” for further discussion of liquidity and capital resources.

Government Regulation; International Routes

Like other airlines, the Company is subject to regulation by the FAA and the
DOT. The FAA, under its mandate to ensure aviation safety, can ground aircraft,
suspend or revoke the authority of an air carrier or its licensed personnel for
failure to comply with Federal Aviation Regulations, and levy civil penalties.
The Company also depends on the efficient operation of the air traffic control
system to ensure reliability of its own operations. The DOT has the authority to
regulate certain airline economic functions including financial and statistical
reporting, consumer protection, computerized reservations systems, essential air
transportation, and international route authority. The Company is subject to
bilateral agreements between the United States and the foreign countries to
which the Company provides service. There can be no assurance that existing
bilateral agreements between the United States and the foreign governments will
continue or that the Company’s designation to operate such routes will continue.
The Company


is also subject to domestic and international environmental regulations,
including rules on noise and emissions, that may affect the cost or scope of its
services.

Economic Conditions

The demand for both business and leisure air transportation is affected by
regional and national economic conditions. An economic downturn, or changes in
consumer preferences, perceptions or spending patterns, could affect the
Company’s ability to sustain its traffic volumes and yields.

Risk of Loss and Liability

The Company is exposed to potential catastrophic losses in the event of aircraft
accidents or terrorist incidents. Although the Company was not directly involved
in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, it experienced significantly
increased costs and reduced revenues as a result. These incremental costs and
lost revenues arose from the FAA’s temporary grounding of the U.S. airline
industry’s fleet, changing patterns of air travel by the public, increased
security, insurance and other costs, higher ticket refunds, reduced load factors
and reduced yields. Further terrorist attacks involving commercial aircraft
could result in another grounding of the Company’s fleet, and would likely
result in additional costs and reduced revenues. Consistent with industry
standards, the Company maintains rigorous safety, training and maintenance
programs, as well as insurance against such losses. However, the cost to
maintain adequate insurance to cover passenger and third-party liability in the
future is unknown. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could
cause a negative public perception of the Company with adverse financial
consequences. Additionally, unusually adverse weather can significantly reduce
flight operations, resulting in lost revenues and added expenses.

OTHER INFORMATION

Frequent Flyer Program

All major airlines have developed frequent flyer programs as a way of increasing
passenger loyalty. Alaska’s Mileage Plan allows members to earn mileage by
flying on Alaska, Horizon and other participating airlines, and by using the
services of non-airline partners, which include a credit card partner, telephone
companies, hotels, and car rental agencies. Alaska is paid by non-airline
partners for the miles it credits to member accounts. With advance notice,
Alaska has the ability to change the Mileage Plan terms, conditions, partners,
mileage credits, and award levels.

Mileage can be redeemed for free or discounted travel and for other travel
industry awards. Upon accumulating the necessary mileage, members notify Alaska
of their award selection. Over 75% of the free flight awards on Alaska and
Horizon are subject to blackout dates and capacity-controlled seating. Alaska’s
miles do not expire. As of year-end 2000 and 2001, Alaska estimated that
1,582,000 and 1,740,000 round-trip flight awards were eligible for redemption by
Mileage Plan members who have mileage credits exceeding the 20,000-mile free
round-trip domestic ticket award threshold. Of those eligible awards, Alaska
estimated that 1,469,000 and 1,618,000, respectively, would ultimately be
redeemed. For the years 1999, 2000 and 2001, approximately 226,000, 281,000, and
310,000 round-trip flight awards were redeemed and flown on Alaska and Horizon.
Those awards represent approximately 3.7% for 1999, 4.8% for 2000, and 5.2% for
2001, of the total passenger miles flown for each period. For the years 1999,
2000 and 2001, approximately 99,000, 137,000, and 154,000 round-trip flight
awards were redeemed and flown on airline partners.


For miles earned by flying on Alaska and travel partners, the estimated
incremental cost of providing free travel awards is recognized as a selling
expense and accrued as a liability as miles are accumulated. The incremental
cost does not include a contribution to overhead, aircraft cost, or profit.
Alaska also sells mileage credits to non-airline partners, such as hotels, car
rental agencies, and a credit card company. Alaska defers a majority of the
sales proceeds, and recognizes these proceeds as revenue when the award
transportation is provided. The deferred proceeds are recognized as passenger
revenue for awards issued on Alaska and as other revenue-net for awards issued
on other airlines. At December 31, 2000 and 2001, the deferred revenue and the
total liability for miles outstanding and for estimated payments to partner
airlines was $198.5 million and $248.3 million, respectively.

Employees

Alaska had 11,025 active full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2001.
Alaska’s union contracts at December 31, 2001 were as follows:

Union

Employee Group

Number of

Employees

Contract Status

Air Line Pilots Association International

Pilots

1,430

Amendable 4/30/05

Association of Flight Attendants

Flight attendants

2,044

Amendable 10/19/03

International Association of Machinists

and Aerospace Workers

Rampservice and stock clerks

1,148

Amendable 1/10/04

Clerical, office and passenger service

3,237

Amendable 10/29/02

Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association

Mechanics, inspectors and cleaners

1,284

Amendable 12/25/02

Mexico Workers Association of Air Transport

Mexico airport personnel


Amendable 4/1/02

Transport Workers Union of America

Dispatchers


Amendable 8/9/02


Horizon had 4,038 active full-time and part-time employees at
December 31, 2001. Horizon’s union contracts at December 31, 2001 were
as follows:

Union

Employee Group

Number of

Employees

Contract Status

International Brotherhood

of Teamsters (IBT)

Pilots


Amendable 9/13/06

Association of

Flight Attendants

Flight attendants


Amendable 1/28/03

Transport Workers

Union of America

Mechanics and

related classifications


Amendable 12/15/02

Dispatchers


Amendable 5/10/02

National Automobile,

Aerospace, Transportation

and General Workers

Station personnel

in Vancouver and

Victoria, BC, Canada


Amendable 2/14/04

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

Aircraft

The following table describes the aircraft operated and their average age at
December 31, 2001.

Aircraft Type

Passenger

Capacity

Owned

Leased

Total

Average Age

in Years

Alaska Airlines

Boeing 737–200C





20.9

Boeing 737–400





6.6

Boeing 737–700



—


1.6

Boeing 737–900



—


0.6

Boeing MD–80





11.2




8.2

Horizon Air

Bombardier Dash 8-100/200


—



4.0

Bombardier Dash 8-400


—



0.6

Bombardier CRJ 700


—



0.5

Fokker F-28





19.8




5.9

Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial Condition,” discusses future orders and options for additional
aircraft.

Twenty-eight of the 52 aircraft owned by Alaska as of December 31, 2001 are
subject to liens securing long-term debt. Alaska’s leased 737-200C, 737-400, and
MD-80 aircraft have lease expiration dates in 2002, between 2003 and 2016, and
between 2002 and 2013, respectively. Horizon’s leased Dash 8, CRJ 700, and F-28
aircraft have expiration dates between 2002 and 2018, between 2002 and 2018, and
in 2002, respectively. However, as part of its fleet modernization plan, Horizon
expects to return to the lessors or otherwise dispose of one Dash 8-100 aircraft
and


10 F-28 aircraft during 2002. Alaska and Horizon have the option to extend most
of the leases for additional periods, or the right to purchase the aircraft at
the end of the lease term, usually at the then fair market value of the
aircraft. For information regarding obligations under capital leases and
long-term operating leases, see Note 5 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

At December 31, 2001, all of Alaska’s aircraft met the Stage 3 noise
requirements under the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990. However, special
noise ordinances restrict the timing of flights operated by Alaska and other
airlines at Burbank, Orange County, San Diego, and San Jose. In addition, Orange
County and Reagan National airports restrict the type of aircraft and number of
flights.

Ground Facilities and Services

Alaska and Horizon lease ticket counters, gates, cargo and baggage, office
space, and other support areas at the majority of the airports they serve.
Alaska also owns terminal buildings at various Alaska cities.

Alaska has centralized operations in several buildings located at or near
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac) in Seattle, Washington. The owned
buildings, including land unless located on leased airport property, include: a
three-bay hangar facility with maintenance shops; a flight operations and
training center; an air cargo facility; a reservations and office facility;
several office buildings; its corporate headquarters; and two storage
warehouses. Alaska also leases a two-bay hangar/office facility at Sea-Tac.
Alaska’s other major facilities include: a regional headquarters building, an
air cargo facility, and a leased hangar/office facility in Anchorage; a Phoenix
reservations center; and a leased two-bay maintenance facility in Oakland.

Horizon owns its Seattle corporate headquarters building. It leases an
operations, training, and aircraft maintenance facility in Portland, and a
maintenance facility in Boise.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Oakland Maintenance Investigation

In December 1998 the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of California
initiated a grand jury investigation concerning certain 1998 maintenance
activities at Alaska’s Oakland maintenance base. The investigation also included
the aircraft involved in the loss of Flight 261 in January 2000. The FAA
separately proposed a civil penalty, which Alaska and the FAA have settled for
an agreed amount. In December 2001 the U.S. attorney notified Alaska that the
evidence it had gathered did not warrant the filing of criminal charges. Alaska
expects no further material activity in this matter.

Flight 261 Litigation

Alaska is a defendant in a number of lawsuits relating to the loss of Flight 261
on January 31, 2000. Representatives of all 88 passengers and crew on board have
filed cases against Alaska, the Boeing Company, and others. The suits seek
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. In May 2001, the judge presiding
over the majority of the cases ruled that punitive damages are not available
against Alaska. Alaska has settled a number of these cases and continues in its
efforts to settle the remaining ones. Consistent with industry standards, the
Company maintains insurance against aircraft accidents.


Management believes the ultimate disposition of the above matters is not likely
to materially affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
This forward-looking statement is based on management’s current understanding of
the relevant law and facts; it is subject to various contingencies, including
the potential costs and risks associated with litigation and the actions of
judges and juries.

The Company is also a party to other ordinary routine litigation incidental to
its business and with respect to which no material liability is expected.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc., their
positions and their respective ages (as of February 22, 2002) are as follows:

Name

Position

Age

Officer Since

John F. Kelly

Chairman, President and Chief

Executive Officer of Alaska

Air Group, Inc.; Chairman

of Alaska Airlines, Inc.;

Chairman of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.



Bradley D. Tilden

Executive Vice President/Finance

and Chief Financial Officer

of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and

Alaska Airlines, Inc.



Keith Loveless

Vice President/Legal and Corporate Affairs,

General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

of Alaska Air Group, Inc.

and Alaska Airlines, Inc.



Mr. Kelly and Mr. Loveless have been employed as officers of Air
Group or its subsidiary, Alaska Airlines, for more than five years. Mr. Tilden
joined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became controller of Alaska Airlines and Alaska
Air Group in 1994 and became CFO in February 2000.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
                  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

As of December 31, 2001, there were 26,528,368 shares of common stock issued and
outstanding and 4,230 shareholders of record. The Company also held 2,740,501
treasury shares at a cost of $62.6 million. The Company has not paid dividends
on the common stock since 1992. Alaska Air Group Inc.’s common stock is listed
on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: ALK).

The following table shows the trading range of Alaska Air Group common stock on
the New York Stock Exchange for 2000 and 2001.



High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

36.7500

25.2500

35.25

24.45

Second Quarter

32.0000

26.5625

29.50

28.15

Third Quarter

28.9375

23.1250

33.66

19.97

Fourth Quarter

31.7500

19.5000

31.10

19.28


ITEM 6.

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA






Consolidated Financial Data:

Year Ended December 31 (in millions, except per share amounts):

Operating Revenues

$

1,115.4

$

1,128.3

$

1,315.6

$

1,417.5

$

1,592.2

Operating Expenses

1,210.2

1,145.1

1,241.6

1,341.8

1,503.2

Operating Income (Loss)

(94.8

)

(16.8

)

74.0

75.7

89.0

Nonoperating expense, net (a)

(30.9

)

(29.0

)

(33.0

)

(41.7

)

(24.7

)

Income (loss) before income tax and accounting change

(125.7

)

(45.8

)

41.0

34.0

64.3

Income (loss) before accounting change

(80.3

)

(30.9

)

22.5

17.3

38.0

Net Income (Loss)

$

(84.8

)

$

(30.9

)

$

22.5

$

17.3

$

38.0

Average basic shares outstanding

13.309

13.340

13.367

13.471

14.241

Average diluted shares outstanding

13.309

13.340

19.598

20.765

22.458

Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting change

$

(6.53

)

$

(2.51

)

$

1.69

$

1.28

$

2.67

Basic earnings (loss) per share (b)

(6.87

)

(2.51

)

1.69

1.28

2.67

Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting change

(6.53

)

(2.51

)

1.62

1.26

2.05

Diluted earnings (loss) per share (b)

(6.87

)

(2.51

)

1.62

1.26

2.05

At End of Period (in millions, except ratio):

Total assets

$

1,208.4

$

1,135.0

$

1,315.8

$

1,313.4

$

1,311.4

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

487.8

525.4

589.9

522.4

404.1

Shareholders’ equity

196.7

166.8

191.3

212.5

272.5

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (c)

(0.37

)

0.51

1.36

1.28

1.57

Alaska Airlines Operating Data:

Revenue passengers (000)

6,249

6,438

8,958

10,140

11,805

Revenue passenger miles (RPM) (000,000)

5,537

5,514

7,587

8,584

9,831

Available seat miles (ASM) (000,000)

9,617

9,426

12,082

13,885

14,904

Revenue passenger load factor

57.6

%

58.5

%

62.8

%

61.8

%

66.0

%

Yield per passenger mile

14.50

¢

14.32

¢

12.20

¢

11.59

¢

11.67

¢

Operating revenues per ASM

9.44

¢

9.62

¢

8.79

¢

8.23

¢

8.70

¢

Operating expenses per ASM (d)

10.22

¢

9.72

¢

8.27

¢

7.71

¢

8.10

¢

Average full-time equivalent employees

6,514

6,191

6,486

6,993

7,652

Horizon Air Operating Data:

Revenue passengers (000)

2,381

2,752

3,482

3,796

3,753

Revenue passenger miles (RPM) (000,000)






Available seat miles (ASM) (000,000)



1,165

1,414

1,462

Revenue passenger load factor

53.7

%

56.8

%

62.9

%

59.5

%

59.3

%

Yield per passenger mile

40.69

¢

37.93

¢

33.35

¢

31.48

¢

33.14

¢

Operating revenues per ASM

23.00

¢

22.65

¢

22.06

¢

19.77

¢

20.61

¢

Operating expenses per ASM

22.19

¢

21.76

¢

20.95

¢

19.47

¢

20.60

¢

Average full-time equivalent employees

2,152

2,267

2,557

2,864

2,891

(a)

Includes capitalized interest of $6.1 million,
$0.4 million, $0.4 million, $0.2 million and $1.0 million
for 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996, respectively.

(b)

For 1992, basic and diluted
earnings per share include $(0.34) for the $4.6 million cumulative effect
of the postretirement benefits accounting change.

(c)

For 1992 and 1993, respectively, earnings are
inadequate to cover fixed charges by $142.1 million and $50.0 million.

(d)

For 1992 and 1993, respectively, operating expenses
per ASM excludes the impact of a $26.0 million and a $15.0 million special charge
related to the impairment of Alaska’s B727 aircraft and related spare parts.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA






Consolidated Financial Data:

Year Ended December 31 (in millions, except per share amounts):

Operating Revenues

$

1,739.4

$

1,897.7

$

2,082.0

$

2,177.2

$

2,140.9

Operating Expenses

1,600.4

1,686.7

1,882.1

2,197.8

2,262.7

Operating Income (Loss)

139.0

211.0

199.9

(20.6

)

(121.8

)

Nonoperating expense, net (a)

(15.4

)

(6.6

)

20.8

4.9

64.3

Income (loss) before income tax and accounting change

123.6

204.4

220.7

(15.7

)

(57.5

)

Income (loss) before accounting change

72.4

124.4

134.2

(13.4

)

(39.5

)

Net Income (Loss)

$

72.4

$

124.4

$

134.2

$

(70.3

)

$

(39.5

)

Average basic shares outstanding

14.785

23.388

26.372

26.440

26.499

Average diluted shares outstanding

22.689

26.367

26.507

26.440

26.499

Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting change

$

4.90

$

5.32

$

5.09

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share (b)

4.90

5.32

5.09

(2.66

)

(1.49

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting change

3.53

4.81

5.06

(0.51

)

(1.49

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share (b)

3.53

4.81

5.06

(2.66

)

(1.49

)

At End of Period (in millions, except ratio):

Total assets

$

1,533.1

$

1,731.8

$

2,180.1

$

2,599.7

$

2,933.8

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

401.4

171.5

337.0

609.2

863.3

Shareholders’ equity

475.3

789.5

930.7

862.3

820.3

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (c)

2.10

2.93

3.14

0.73

0.51

Alaska Airlines Operating Data:

Revenue passengers (000)

12,284

13,056

13,620

13,525

13,668

Revenue passenger miles (RPM) (000,000)

10,386

11,283

11,777

11,986

12,249

Available seat miles (ASM) (000,000)

15,436

16,807

17,341

17,315

17,919

Revenue passenger load factor

67.3

%

67.1

%

67.9

%

69.2

%

68.4

%

Yield per passenger mile

12.49

¢

12.50

¢

12.90

¢

13.50

¢

13.13

¢

Operating revenues per ASM

9.38

¢

9.32

¢

9.69

¢

10.10

¢

9.77

¢

Operating expenses per ASM (d)

8.51

¢

8.17

¢

8.68

¢

10.04

¢

10.16

¢

Average full-time equivalent employees

8,236

8,704

9,183

9,611

10,115

Horizon Air Operating Data:

Revenue passengers (000)

3,686

4,389

4,984

5,044

4,668

Revenue passenger miles (RPM) (000,000)


1,143

1,379

1,428

1,350

Available seat miles (ASM) (000,000)

1,446

1,815

2,194

2,299

2,148

Revenue passenger load factor

61.5

%

63.0

%

62.9

%

62.1

%

62.9

%

Yield per passenger mile

32.56

¢

29.01

¢

28.77

¢

29.85

¢

28.14

¢

Operating revenues per ASM

21.00

¢

19.16

¢

18.96

¢

19.29

¢

19.02

¢

Operating expenses per ASM (e)

20.60

¢

18.16

¢

17.83

¢

19.54

¢

20.90

¢

Average full-time equivalent employees

2,756

3,019

3,603

3,795

3,764

(a)

Includes capitalized interest of $5.3 million,
$6.6 million, $10.2 million, $15.5 million and $8.1 million
for 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively.

(b)

For 2000, basic and diluted
earnings per share include $(2.15) for the $56.9 million cumulative effect
of the accounting change for the sale of frequent flyer miles.

(c)

For 2000 and 2001, respectively, earnings are
inadequate to cover fixed charges by $31.2 million and $65.6 million.

(d)

For 2000, operating expenses
per ASM excludes the impact of a $24.0 million special charge
related to Alaska’s Mileage Plan.

(e)

For 2001, operating expenses
per ASM excludes the impact of a $10.2 million special charge
related to the impairment of Horizon’s F-28 aircraft and related spare parts.


Alaska Airlines Financial and Statistical Data

Quarter Ended December 31

Year Ended December 31



%

Change



%

Change

Financial Data (in millions):

Operating Revenues:

Passenger

$

396.3

$

346.7

(12.5

)

$

1,617.9

$

1,608.3

(0.6

)

Freight and mail

18.7

17.7

(5.3

)

76.4

78.2

2.4

Other—net

14.0

17.1

22.1

54.7

64.4

17.7

Total Operating Revenues

429.0

381.5

(11.1

)

1,749.0

1,750.9

0.1

Operating Expenses:

Wages and benefits

145.5

167.3

15.0

576.7

646.7

12.1

Contracted services

19.7

18.3

(7.1

)

66.1

71.2

7.7

Aircraft fuel

89.5

50.0

(44.1

)

313.1

269.8

(13.8

)

Aircraft maintenance

38.0

29.7

(21.8

)

128.8

125.1

(2.9

)

Aircraft rent

37.0

33.6

(9.2

)

144.3

137.6

(4.6

)

Food and beverage service

13.0

13.1

0.8

51.0

55.5

8.8

Commissions

15.7

13.7

(12.7

)

65.1

64.1

(1.5

)

Other selling expenses

27.7

23.8

(14.1

)

98.5

102.7

4.3

Depreciation and amortization

23.7

29.2

23.2

83.9

103.6

23.5

Loss on sale of assets

0.5

3.2

NM

1.3

5.0

NM

Landing fees and other rentals

20.0

28.8

44.0

74.4

99.5

33.7

Other

38.8

35.1

(9.5

)

135.4

139.9

3.3

Special charge—Mileage Plan

—

—

24.0

—

Total Operating Expenses

469.1

445.8

(5.0

)

1,762.6

1,820.7

3.3

Operating Loss

(40.1

)

(64.3

)

60.3

(13.6

)

(69.8

)

413.2

Interest income

8.6

5.4

27.9

29.6

Interest expense

(10.9

)

(12.8

)

(36.0

)

(47.4

)

Interest capitalized

3.6

0.3

12.4

5.1

U.S. government compensation

—

52.9

—

71.6

Other—net

(0.6

)

(1.2

)

1.1

(2.9

)

0.7

44.6

5.4

56.0

Loss Before Income Tax

and Accounting Change

$

(39.4

)

$

(19.7

)

(50.0

)

$

(8.2

)

$

(13.8

)

68.3

Operating Statistics:

Revenue passengers (000)

3,270

3,025

(7.5

)

13,525

13,668

1.1

RPMs (000,000)

2,899

2,736

(5.6

)

11,986

12,249

2.2

ASMs (000,000)

4,379

4,121

5.9

17,315

17,919

3.5

Passenger load factor

66.2

%

66.4

%

0.2 pts

69.2

%

68.4

%

(1.3)pts

Breakeven load factor

75.0

%

82.4

%

7.4 pts

69.7

%

73.5

%

3.8 pts

Yield per passenger mile

13.67

¢

12.67

¢

(7.3

)

13.50

¢

13.13

¢

(2.7

)

Operating revenue per ASM

9.80

¢

9.26

¢

(5.5

)

10.10

¢

9.77

¢

(3.3

)

Operating expenses per ASM*

10.71

¢

10.82

¢

1.0

10.04

¢

10.16

¢

1.2

Expense per ASM excluding fuel*

8.67

¢

9.60

¢

10.8

8.23

¢

8.65

¢

5.1

Fuel cost per gallon

118.1

¢

71.9

¢

(39.2

)

103.4

¢

88.3

¢

(14.6

)

Fuel gallons (000,000)

75.7

69.6

(8.1

)

302.9

305.7

0.9

Average number of employees

9,963

9,834

(1.3

)

9,611

10,115

5.2

Aircraft utilization (blk hrs/day)

10.6

9.2

(13.2

)

10.7

10.4

(2.8

)

Operating fleet at period-end



6.3



6.3

*Year-to-date excludes the impact of a special charge in June 2000.

NM = Not Meaningful


Horizon Air Financial and Statistical Data

Quarter Ended December 31

Year Ended December 31



%

Change



%

Change

Financial Data (in millions):

Operating Revenues:

Passenger

$

103.3

$

79.0

(23.5

)

$

426.2

$

380.0

(10.8

)

Freight and mail

2.8

1.3

(53.6

)

11.2

8.1

(27.7

)

Other—net

1.4

4.7

235.7

)

6.1

20.3

232.8

Total Operating Revenues

107.5

85.0

(20.9

)

443.5

408.4

(7.9

)

Operating Expenses:

Wages and benefits

37.7

40.9

8.5

138.9

152.6

9.9

Contracted services

3.8

3.4

(10.5

)

14.2

13.8

(2.8

)

Aircraft fuel

20.2

9.3

(54.0

)

70.2

54.5

(22.4

)

Aircraft maintenance

16.7

6.4

(61.7

)

63.5

49.0

(22.8

)

Aircraft rent

10.6

13.8

30.2

42.5

48.4

13.9

Food and beverage service

0.8

0.6

(25.0

)

3.2

2.9

(9.4

)

Commissions

3.1

2.3

(25.8

)

13.9

11.3

(18.7

)

Other selling expenses

5.5

4.6

(16.4

)

22.7

22.2

(2.2

)

Depreciation and amortization

6.3

6.9

9.5

20.7

26.7

29.0

Loss (gain) on sale of assets

0.1

(0.1

)

NM

(1.3

)

(0.4

)

NM

Landing fees and other rentals

6.5

8.1

24.6

25.4

30.2

18.9

Other

10.1

10.4

3.0

35.5

37.7

6.2

Special charge - asset impairment

—

10.2

—

10.2

Total Operating Expenses

121.4

116.8

(3.8

)

449.4

459.1

2.2

Operating Loss

(13.9

)

(31.8

)

128.8

(5.9

)

(50.7

)

759.3

Interest expense

(0.6

)

(0.3

)

(3.1

)

(3.1

)

Interest capitalized

0.6

0.3

3.1

3.0

U.S. government compensation

—

(0.6

)

—

9.8

Other—net

—

(0.1

)

0.1

(0.6

)

—

(0.7

)

0.1

9.1

Loss Before Income Tax

$

(13.9

)

$

(32.5

)

133.8

$

(5.8

)

$

(41.6

)

617.2

Operating Statistics:

Revenue passengers (000)

1,231

1,034

(16.0

)

5,044

4,668

(7.5

)

RPMs (000,000)



(15.6

)

1,428

1,350

(5.5

)

ASMs (000,000)



(16.1

)

2,299

2,148

(6.6

)

Passenger load factor

62.9

%

63.3

%

0.4 pts

62.1

%

62.9

%

0.8 pts

Breakeven load factor

71.9

%

82.2

%

10.3 pts

63.2

%

70.2

%

7.0 pts

Yield per passenger mile

29.06

¢

26.33

¢

(9.4

)

29.85

¢

28.14

¢

(5.7

)

Operating revenue per ASM

19.02

¢

17.95

¢

(5.6

)

19.29

¢

19.02

¢

(1.4

)

Operating expenses per ASM*

21.48

¢

22.51

¢

4.8

19.54

¢

20.90

¢

7.0

Expense per ASM excluding fuel*

17.91

¢

20.55

¢

14.8

16.49

¢

18.36

¢

11.4

Fuel cost per gallon

121.4

¢

77.4

¢

(36.3

)

105.7

¢

93.4

¢

(11.6

)

Fuel gallons (000,000)

16.6

12.0

(27.7

)

66.5

58.3

(12.3

)

Average number of employees

4,008

3,534

(11.8

)

3,795

3,764

(0.8

)

Aircraft utilization (blk hrs/day)

8.2

6.7

(18.3

)

8.3

7.6

(8.4

)

Operating fleet at period-end



(3.2

)



(3.2

)

*2001 amounts exclude the impact of a special charge in December 2001.

NM = Not Meaningful


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

Industry Conditions

The airline industry is cyclical. Generally speaking, economic conditions were
strong during 1999 and 2000, but weakened during 2001. Because the industry has
high fixed costs in relation to revenues, a small change in load factors or fare
levels has a large impact on profits. For most airlines, labor and fuel account
for almost half of operating expenses. The relatively strong economy in 1999 and
2000 has put upward pressure on labor costs. Fuel prices have been volatile in
the last three years. For Alaska Airlines, fuel cost per gallon increased 23% in
1999, increased 54% in 2000 and decreased 15% in 2001.

On September 11, 2001, the United States was attacked by terrorists using
hijacked jets of two U.S. airlines. The FAA shut down all commercial airline
flight operations for September 11 and 12. Airlines resumed flight operations at
reduced levels on September 13. These events, combined with slowing economic
conditions, had a significant negative impact on demand for airline travel.
Throughout the industry, airlines cut capacity and instituted a variety of
cost-saving measures. Also as a result of the terrorist attacks, credit rating
agencies downgraded the long-term credit ratings of most U.S. airlines and their
related entities, including Alaska Air Group, Inc. On September 22, 2001, the
U.S. Government passed the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization
Act (the Act) to provide $5 billion of cash compensation and $10 billion of loan
guarantees to U.S. airlines. The purpose of the Act was to compensate the
airlines for direct and incremental losses for the period September 11 through
December 31, 2001 as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks. As of
December 31, 2001, Alaska had received $71.6 million and Horizon had received
$8.3 million of the $5 billion cash compensation.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2001 Compared with 2000

The consolidated net loss for 2001 was $39.5 million, or $1.49 per share
compared with a loss before accounting change of $13.4 million, or $0.51 per
share in 2000. The consolidated operating loss was $121.8 million in 2001
compared with an operating loss of $20.6 million in 2000. The larger operating
loss was primarily due to the weakening economy, partially offset by a decrease
in fuel costs, and also due to the negative impact of the terrorist attacks, for
which the Company has been partially compensated by the U.S. government.
Financial and statistical data for Alaska and Horizon is shown in Item 6. A
discussion of this data follows.

Alaska Airlines Revenues

Capacity increased 6.7% during the first nine months of 2001 due to normal
growth, but decreased 5.9% in the fourth quarter due to the impact of the
terrorist attacks. Alaska operated approximately 87% of its previously planned
schedule in the fourth quarter. For the full year 2001, capacity was up 3.5% but
traffic grew by only 2.2%, resulting in a 0.8 point decrease in passenger load
factor. In our largest market, Southern California, capacity was slightly lower
in 2001 compared to 2000, resulting in flat traffic and a slight increase in
load factor (0.2 points). Capacity and traffic gains experienced in the second
quarter in this market were offset by decreases in the fourth quarter. In our
second largest market, Anchorage/Fairbanks to the U.S. mainland, capacity
increased in the upper-single digits, but traffic increases were not as high,
resulting in a decrease in load factor of 2.3 points for the year. Our newest
market, Seattle to


Washington D.C., which operated primarily in the fourth quarter, had an average
load factor for the fourth quarter that was better than the system average.

Passenger yields were up 3.9% in the first quarter due to fuel-related fare
increases implemented in late 2000. In the second and third quarters, yield was
down 1.8% and 5.2%, respectively, due to a decline in business passengers and
fare sales. Yields were down 7.3% in the fourth quarter due to a combination of
fewer business passengers, a drop off in demand due to the events of September
11, and fares sales offered to stimulate demand. For the full year 2001, yields
were down 2.7%. The higher traffic combined with the lower yield resulted in a
0.6% decrease in passenger revenue.

Freight and mail revenues, which were also adversely impacted by the September
11 terrorist attacks, increased 2.4%. Prior to September 11, freight revenues
were flat compared to 2000, but mail revenues had increased compared to 2000 due
to higher yields. Volumes of mail shipped were lower than in 2000, but the rate
increases instituted in early 2001 resulted in higher revenues. After September
11, two security measures impacted our freight and mail business: first, the
limitation on carrying mail greater than 16 ounces on flights with 60 or more
passengers limited our ability to carry mail from Alaska to the U.S. mainland.
Second, we may only carry freight from known shippers, which negatively impacted
our freight volumes. The effects of these two measures will have a slightly
negative impact on revenues in the future.

Other-net revenues increased 17.7%, largely due to increased revenue from the
sale of miles in Alaska’s frequent flyer program.

Alaska Airlines Expenses

Excluding fuel and a special charge in 2000, operating expenses grew by $125.4
million, or 8.8%, as a result of a 3.5% increase in ASMs and a 5.1% increase in
cost per ASM. The increase in cost per ASM excluding fuel and special charge was
3.5% for the first nine months of 2001 but jumped to 10.8% in the fourth
quarter, primarily due to the impact of the terrorist attacks and labor costs.
Explanations of significant year-over-year changes in the components of
operating expenses are as follows:

Wages and benefits increased 12.1% due to a 5.2% increase in the
               number of employees combined with a 6.5% increase in average
               wages and benefits per employee. Employees were added in most
               areas to support the net addition of six aircraft to the
               operating fleet. The 2000 results include a $1.8 million charge
               for a flight attendant early retirement program. The 2001 results
               include approximately $13.4 million of added expense for a pilot
               pay increase that was effective June 2001. Excluding these items,
               average wages and benefits per employee increased 4.7%, which was
               due to longevity increases for union employees, annual merit
               raises for management employees, and higher pension and health
               insurance costs for all employees.

Contracted services increased 7.7%, primarily due to higher rates
               for ground handling services and a slightly higher volume of
               services due to capacity growth. Increased airport security
               screening costs subsequent to September 11 also contributed to
               the increase.


Fuel expense decreased 13.8% due to a 14.6% decrease in the cost
               per gallon of fuel, offset by a 0.9% increase in gallons
               consumed. The fuel consumption rate decreased 2.8% due to the use
               of more fuel-efficient B737-700 and B737-900 aircraft. The lower
               fuel prices saved $46.2 million.

Maintenance expense decreased 2.9% because we performed fewer
               airframe checks in 2001 and performed a greater percentage of the
               checks in Alaska maintenance facilities rather than at outside
               contractors. We also incurred lower outside engine repair costs
               in 2001 compared to 2000. Those reductions were partly offset by
               higher amortization of airframe and engine overhauls that were
               capitalized in prior years.

Commission expense decreased 1.5%, consistent with the 0.6%
               decrease in passenger revenue, and also due to a smaller
               proportion of sales being made through travel agents. In 2001,
               59.9% of Air Group ticket sales were made through travel agents,
               versus 63.9% in 2000. In 2001, 16.3% of the ticket sales were
               made through Alaska’s Internet web site versus 10.4% in 2000.

Other selling expense consists of credit card commissions,
               centralized reservation systems fees, Mileage Plan award costs,
               and advertising expenses. In 2001, Mileage Plan awards expense
               increased $3.9 million due to the growth of the program.
               Centralized reservation systems fees also increased slightly in
               2001 due to rate increases. These increases were offset by
               planned decreases in advertising and promotion costs.

Depreciation and amortization increased 23.5%, primarily due to the addition
               of nine owned aircraft during 2001.

Landing fees and other rentals increased 33.7%, exceeding the
               2.5% increase in landings, due to higher landing fee and rental
               rates at airports throughout the system. The higher rates reflect
               the airports’ increased cost of operations due to new security
               directives, expansion of their facilities, and increased costs
               for utilities. Due to the events of September 11, airports are
               experiencing fewer landings and lower receipts from
               concessionaires. Therefore, the Company anticipates that these
               revenue shortfalls will be passed through to airlines via
               increased landing fees and terminal rents. In the fourth quarter
               of 2001 the Company expensed $5.1 million for estimated
               shortfalls related to 2001.

Other expense increased 3.3%, primarily due to higher
               expenditures for insurance, flight crew hotels and utilities,
               partly offset by lower recruiting, passenger remuneration, and
               legal costs. Subsequent to the events of September 11, the
               Company experienced significant increases in hull, liability and
               war risk insurance rates, and is also subject to surcharges for
               war risk coverage. As a result of these increases, Alaska expects
               to incur approximately $38 million in insurance expense in 2002,
               compared to $13.1 million in 2001. The Company does not know
               when, if ever, the current insurance rates and surcharges will
               decrease or be discontinued.


Horizon Air Revenues

Capacity was essentially flat during the first eight months of 2001, but
decreased 26.3% in September and 16.1% in the fourth quarter due to the impact
of the terrorist attacks. Horizon operated approximately 80% of its previously
planned schedule in the fourth quarter. For the full year 2001, capacity was
down 6.6% and traffic was down 5.5%, resulting in a 0.8 point increase in
passenger load factor. Passenger yields were down 1.3% in the first quarter,
down 4.6% in the second quarter, and down 8.2% in the third quarter due to a
reduction in business passengers, and down 9.4% in the fourth quarter due to a
combination of fewer business passengers and lower fares. For the full year
2001, yields were down 5.7%. The lower traffic combined with the lower yield
resulted in a 10.8% decrease in passenger revenue.

Freight and mail revenues decreased 27.7%. In June 2001, Horizon ceased carrying
general freight in order to focus on carrying higher-yield small packages
instead. This change, along with the impact of the September 11 terrorist
attacks, led to the decline in revenues. Other-net revenues increased $14.2
million, primarily due to manufacturer support received as compensation for
delays in delivery of CRJ 700 aircraft.

Horizon Air Expenses

Excluding fuel and a special charge, operating expenses grew by $15.2 million,
or 4.0 %, as a result of an 11.4% increase in cost per ASM, partially offset by
a 6.6% decrease in ASMs. Unit costs were adversely impacted by the capacity
reductions that resulted from the September 11 terrorist attacks. Additionally,
Horizon’s expenses were adversely impacted by the delay in the delivery of the
CRJ 700 aircraft from January 2001 to July 2001. The Company hired and trained
pilots, flight attendants and mechanics, and purchased spare parts in
anticipation of the new fleet delivery, which was to commence in January. Those
preparations increased expenses from the beginning of the year, but the total
expected benefits of the new and more efficient aircraft occurred much later in
the year due to the delay. Explanations of significant year-over-year changes in
the components of operating expenses are as follows:

Wages and benefits increased 9.9% due to the combination of a
               10.8% increase in average wages and benefits per employee and a
               0.8% reduction in the number of employees. The Company recognized
               a $3.2 million signing bonus in the fourth quarter related to a
               new pilot contract. Excluding that bonus, average wages and
               benefits were up 8.4%.

Fuel expense  decreased 22.4% due to a 12.3% decrease in gallons  consumed and an 11.6% decrease in the cost per gallon of fuel. The fuel consumption rate decreased
               2.0% due to the use of more fuel-efficient Dash 8-400 and CRJ 700 aircraft.

Aircraft  maintenance  expense  decreased 22.8% due to a 9.2% decrease in aircraft block hours, the greater use of new aircraft in 2001, and higher expenses in 2000
               related to the phasing out of the Fokker F-28 jet aircraft.

Aircraft rent increased 13.9% due to higher rental rates incurred on new Dash 8-400 and CRJ 700 aircraft rented in 2001.


Depreciation and amortization expense increased 29.0%, largely due to added
         depreciation on Fokker F-28 jet aircraft spare parts and airframes.

Landing fees and other rentals increased 18.9% due to higher
               landing fee and rental rates at airports throughout the system.
               The higher rates reflect the airports’ increased cost of
               operations due to new security directives, expansion of their
               facilities, and increased costs for utilities. Due to the events
               of September 11 and the slowing economy, airports are
               experiencing fewer landings and lower receipts from
               concessionaires. Therefore, the Company anticipates that those
               revenue shortfalls will be passed through to airlines via
               increased landing fees and terminal rents. In the fourth quarter
               of 2001, the Company expensed $1.5 million for estimated
               shortfalls related to 2001.

Other expense increased 6.2%, primarily due to higher
               expenditures for insurance. Subsequent to the events of September
               11, the Company experienced significant increases in hull,
               liability and war risk insurance rates, and is also subject to
               surcharges for war risk coverage. As a result of those increases,
               insurance expense for Horizon in 2002 is expected to be
               approximately $17.1 million, compared to $6.1 million in 2001. The
               Company does not know when, if ever, the current insurance rates
               and surcharges will decrease or be discontinued.

The $10.2 million special charge recognizes the loss in value of
               owned Fokker F-28 aircraft and related spare parts. The F-28s,
               which are being replaced with more fuel-efficient CRJ 700
               regional jets, are expected to be completely out of service by
               December 31, 2002. The remaining net book value of these aircraft
               and related spare parts as of December 31, 2001, was $16.2 million.

Consolidated Nonoperating Income (Expense)

Net nonoperating income was $64.3 million in 2001 compared to $4.9 million in
2000. The $59.4 million increase was primarily due to U.S. government
compensation and interest expense.

Alaska recognized $71.6 million of U.S. government compensation, which was the
amount received through December 31, 2001 under the Air Transportation Safety
and System Stabilization Act described above under Industry Conditions. We
estimate that Alaska is eligible to receive up to $83.9 million under the Act.
The ultimate amount of compensation to be received is based on submission and
approval of Alaska’s final application in 2002. This amount may be higher or
lower than the amount of cash that has been received to date, but management
believes Alaska incurred losses in excess of $83.9 million and will qualify for
reimbursement of the maximum amount. We estimate that Horizon’s share of
compensation under the Act is $9.8 million, and through December 31, 2001, it
has received $8.3 million. Management believes Horizon incurred losses in excess
of $9.8 million and will qualify for reimbursement of the maximum amount.
Horizon recognized $9.8 million of other income in 2001.

Interest expense, net of capitalized interest, increased $18.8 million due to
new debt incurred during the past 12 months. Effective January 1, 2001, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, “Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, as amended. SFAS No. 133
requires companies to record derivatives on the balance


sheet as assets or liabilities, measured at fair value. The Company has fuel
hedge contracts that are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. Each
period, the contracts are measured and adjusted to fair market value. The change
in the value of the fuel hedge contracts that perfectly offsets the change in
the value of the aircraft fuel purchase being hedged is recorded as
comprehensive income/loss until the hedged contract is settled and is then
recognized in earnings. To the extent the change in the value of the fuel hedge
contracts does not perfectly offset the change in the value of the aircraft fuel
purchase being hedged, that portion of the hedge is recognized in earnings. In
2001, $3.3 million of charges were recorded as part of other nonoperating
expense to recognize the changes in fair value of fuel hedging contracts in
accordance with the new standard. As detailed in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements at December 31, 2001, the Company has fuel hedge contracts
for 170 million gallons of projected jet fuel usage in 2002 and 2003, which
represents approximately 24% and 20% of projected usage, respectively.

2000 Compared with 1999

In accordance with guidance provided in the SEC’s Staff Accounting Bulletin 101,
Alaska changed its method of accounting for the sale of miles in its Mileage
Plan. In connection with the change, Alaska recognized a $56.9 million
cumulative effect charge, net of income taxes of $35.6 million, effective
January 1, 2000. The consolidated loss before accounting change for 2000 was
$13.4 million, or $0.51 per share, compared with net income of $134.2 million,
or $5.06 per share (diluted) in 1999. The consolidated operating loss was $20.6
million in 2000 compared with an operating income of $199.9 million in 1999.
Higher fuel prices increased operating expenses by approximately $125 million in
2000.

Alaska Airlines

- Excluding a $24.0 million special charge in 2000 to recognize
the higher cost of Mileage Plan awards, operating income decreased 94.1% to
$10.4 million, resulting in a 0.6% operating margin as compared with a 10.5%
margin in 1999. Capacity decreased 0.2% and traffic grew by 1.8%. Operating
revenue per ASM increased 4.2%, while operating expenses per ASM (including the
special charge) increased 17.3%. Higher unit costs were largely due to higher
fuel, labor, and aircraft maintenance costs. Additionally, the Company recorded
a $24 million special charge in 2000 to recognize an increase in the cost of
travel awards earned by Mileage Plan members flying on Alaska and travel
partners.

Horizon Air

- Operating income decreased $30.7 million to a $5.9 million
operating loss in 2000. Capacity increased 4.8% and traffic grew by 3.6%.
Operating revenue per ASM increased 1.7% while operating expenses per ASM
increased 9.6%. Higher unit costs were largely due to higher fuel prices, higher
labor costs, added depreciation on F-28 spare parts and higher aircraft
maintenance costs related to the acceleration of the retirement of the F-28
fleet.

Consolidated Nonoperating Income (Expense)

- Net nonoperating income decreased
$15.9 million, primarily due to higher interest expense resulting from new debt
incurred in late 1999 and in the second half of 2000. In addition, a $3.6
million gain on the sale of shares in Equant N.V. (a telecommunication network
company owned by many airlines) was recorded in December 1999.


Critical Accounting Policies

The Company has three critical accounting policies, which have been chosen among
alternatives, that require a more significant amount of management judgment than
other accounting policies the Company employs. They are described below.

Mileage Plan

The Company has a loyalty program that awards miles to passengers who fly on
Alaska and travel partners. Additionally, the Company sells miles to third
parties, such as rental car agencies, for cash. In either case, the outstanding
miles may be redeemed for travel on Alaska, Horizon, or any of our alliance
partners. The Company has an obligation to provide this future travel; therefore
the Company recognizes a liability and the corresponding expense or deferred
revenue for this future obligation.

At December 31, 2001, the Company had 63 billion miles outstanding, representing
a liability of $248 million. The liability is computed based on several
assumptions that require management judgment to estimate and formulate. There
are uncertainties inherent in estimates; therefore, an incorrect assumption may
impact the amount and/or timing of revenue recognition or Mileage Plan expenses.
The most significant assumptions in accounting for the Mileage Plan are
described below.

The number of miles that will not be redeemed for travel and the miles used per award (i.e. free ticket):

Outstanding miles may not always be redeemed for travel. A cardholder may
     not reach the threshold necessary for a free ticket, therefore, based on
     the number of Mileage Plan accounts and the miles in the accounts, the
     Company estimates how many miles will never be used, and does not record a
     liability for those miles. We also estimate how many miles will be used per
     award. If actual miles used are less than estimated, we may need to
     increase the liability and corresponding expense.

The costs which will be incurred to carry the passenger:

When the frequent flyer travels on his or her award ticket, incremental
     costs  such as food, fuel and insurance, are incurred by the Company to
     carry that passenger.   The Company estimates what these costs will be and
     accrues a liability for these costs. If the passenger travels on another
     airline, the Company must pay the other airline for carrying that
     passenger. The other airline costs are based on negotiated agreements and
     are much higher than the costs incurred by the Company to carry that
     passenger. The Company estimates how much it will pay to other airlines for
     future travel awards and accrues this expense. When the award is flown, if
     the costs actually incurred by the Company or paid to other airlines are
     higher than the costs that were estimated and accrued, the liability may be
     understated.

Redemption on Alaska or Horizon versus other airlines:

The cost for Alaska or Horizon to carry an award passenger is much lower
     than the cost the Company will pay to other airlines. This is because the
     cost to the Company is only the incremental cost of that passenger, such as
     food and fuel. Fixed costs, such as aircraft rent, will be incurred
     regardless of whether that additional passenger flies. If the passenger
     flies on another airline, the cost to the Company is much higher as we are
     paying a negotiated price to that airline. The Company estimates the number
     of awards which will be redeemed on Alaska or Horizon versus other airlines
     and accrues the costs based on this estimate. If the number of awards
     redeemed on other airlines is higher than estimated, the liability may be
     understated.


The Company reviews all Mileage Plan estimates each quarter, and changes certain
assumptions based on historical trends. The Company adopted this methodology of
accounting for the Mileage Plan in June 2000. Apart from the special charge in
2000 related to the adoption of this new methodology, there have been no
material effects on the income statement or balance sheet from updating the
assumptions in 2000 or 2001.

Aircraft Maintenance

The Company incurs expenses to repair and maintain aircraft. Routine maintenance
and repairs are expensed when incurred. Major airframe and engine overhauls are
capitalized and expensed over the estimated life of the overhaul. Management
uses estimates to determine the appropriate life of an overhaul. For leased
aircraft, the Company is subject to lease provisions that require that a minimum
portion of the “life” of an overhaul be remaining on the airframe and/or engine
at the lease return date, or the Company may pay a certain amount if the minimum
life is not met. The Company also estimates what the unamortized overhaul and
asset values will be at the lease return dates for the leased aircraft. Both of
those costs are accrued to a lease return provision on a straight-line basis
over the lease lives. The provision is reviewed annually and the assumptions
regarding overhaul timing and costs are updated. The Company has not recognized
any material adjustments in the financial statements in 1999, 2000, or 2001 from
revising the lease return reserve assumptions.

Long-lived Assets

Due to the events of September 11 and the impact on the airline industry, the
Company evaluated whether the book value of its aircraft was impaired in
accordance with SFAS No. 121, “Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of”. The Company performed an
impairment test, as required by SFAS No. 121, which was based on the estimated
future undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the Company’s aircraft.
Based on this test, the Company determined that the Horizon Fokker F-28 fleet
was impaired, and a write-down of $10.2 million was taken against the book value
of those aircraft and related spare parts. There is inherent risk in estimating
the future cash flows used in the impairment test. If cash flows do not
materialize as estimated, there is a risk the impairment charges recognized to
date may be inaccurate, or further impairment charges may be necessary in the
future. However, the Company believes that the accounting practices followed
with regard to impairments are based on the best information available at the
time.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

The table below presents the major indicators of financial condition and
liquidity.

December 31, 1999

December 31, 2000

Change

(In millions, except debt-to-capital and per-share amounts)

Cash and marketable securities

$

461.7

$

660.7

$

199.0

Working capital (deficit)

(8.7

)

144.2

152.9

Unused credit facility

150.0

0.0

(150

)

Long-term debt and

capital lease obligations

609.2

863.3

254.1

Shareholders’ equity

862.3

820.3

(42.0

)

Book value per common share

$

32.59

$

30.92

$

(1.67

)

Debt-to-capital

41%:59%

51%:49%

NA

Debt-to-capital assuming aircraft

operating leases are capitalized

at seven times annualized rent

69%:31%

73%:27%

NA

2001 Financial Changes

Net cash provided by operating activities was $278.3 million in 2001, compared
to $265.0 million in 2000. The increase in 2001 is partially attributable to $79.9
million of U. S. government cash compensation received in 2001. Additional cash
was provided by the issuance of $384.5 million of new debt, including $150.0
million borrowed under Alaska’s credit facility. The Company used cash generated
from operations and the issuance of debt to purchase $383.5 million of capital
equipment, including eight new and one used Boeing 737 aircraft, spare parts and
airframe and engine overhauls. Cash was also used to repay $153.9 million of
debt.

Shareholders’ equity decreased $42.0 million, primarily due to the net loss of
$39.5 million.

Financing Activities

- During 2001, Alaska issued $234.5 million of debt secured
by flight equipment, including $64.5 million with fixed interest rates of
approximately 6.8% and a term of 12 years. Interest rates on the other $170.0
million varies with LIBOR and has payment terms of 12 to 16.5 years.
Additionally, in September 2001, Alaska borrowed $150 million under its credit
facility at an interest rate that varies with LIBOR and is payable on or before
December 31, 2004. During 2001, Horizon added 12 Dash 8-400 and nine CRJ 700
aircraft to its operating fleet. The aircraft were financed with a combination
of U.S. leveraged leases and single investor leases with terms of 16.5 years.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under these 21 new operating leases
will be $476.3 million.

Commitments

- In December 2001, Alaska changed its fleet plan to defer delivery
of certain Boeing aircraft. The former schedule provided for delivery of four
B737s in 2002 and four in 2003. The new schedule is set forth below. At December
31, 2001, the Company had firm orders for 32 aircraft requiring aggregate
payments of approximately $731 million. In addition, Alaska has options to
acquire 26 more B737s, and Horizon has options to acquire 15 Dash 8-400s and 25
CRJ 700s. Alaska expects to finance its new aircraft with leases, long-term
debt, or internally generated cash. Horizon expects to finance its new aircraft
with operating leases. As previously mentioned, as a result of the events of
September 11, credit rating agencies downgraded the long-term credit ratings of
most U.S. airlines and their related entities. To date, the Company has not


had difficulty obtaining credit on acceptable terms, and does not anticipate
problems obtaining credit in the future, but future credit may be at higher
rates than prior to September 11.

Delivery Period—Firm Orders

Aircraft





Total

Boeing 737-700

—


—

—


Boeing 737-900




—


Bombardier Dash 8-400


—

—

—


Bombardier CRJ 700






Total






Payments (Millions)

$


$


$


$


$


New Accounting Standards

- In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations” (effective July 1,
2001) and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Asets”. SFAS No. 141
prohibits pooling-of-interests accounting for acquisitions. Effective January 1,
2002, the Company will adopt SFAS No 142. Under this Statement, the Company’s
intangible assets are considered to have an indefinite life and will no longer
be amortized but instead will be subject to periodic impairment testing. The
impact of this change is expected to increase annual net income by $2.0 million.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations” (effective for the Company on January 1, 2003). This Statement
addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (effective for the Company on
January 1, 2002). This Statement supersedes SFAS No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of” and
APB Opinion No. 30, “Reporting the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects
of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and
Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions”. The Company is in the process
of evaluating the financial statement impact of SFAS No. 143 and SFAS No. 144.

2000 Financial Changes

The Company’s cash and marketable securities portfolio increased by $133 million
during 2000. Operating activities provided $265 million of cash in 2000.
Additional cash was provided by the issuance of new debt ($338 million) and
insurance proceeds from an aircraft accident ($39 million). Cash was used for
$449 million of capital expenditures, including the purchase of seven new Boeing
737 aircraft, flight equipment deposits and airframe and engine overhauls, and
for $66 million of debt repayment.

1999 Financial Changes

The Company’s cash and marketable securities portfolio increased by $22 million
during 1999. Operating activities provided $330 million of cash in 1999.
Additional cash was provided by the issuance of new debt ($232 million), sale
and leaseback of three Dash 8-200 aircraft ($30 million), flight equipment
deposits returned ($8 million) and the exercise of stock options ($6 million).
Cash was used for $565 million of capital expenditures, including the purchase
of nine new Boeing 737 aircraft, two formerly leased Boeing 737s, three new Dash
8-200 aircraft, flight


equipment deposits, an aircraft simulator, airframe and engine overhauls, and
for $27 million of debt repayment.

Effect of Inflation

- Inflation and specific price changes do not have a
significant effect on the Company’s operating revenues, operating expenses and
operating income, because such revenues and expenses generally reflect current
price levels.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for
trading purposes. The Company has significant commodity price risk exposure to
jet fuel price increases. Currently, a one-cent change in the fuel price per
gallon affects annual fuel costs by approximately $3.7 million. To help manage
this exposure, the Company began purchasing primarily crude oil call options
during 2000. Settlement of these options during the first half of 2001 resulted
in nonoperating expense of $3.3 million for 2001. At December 31, 2001, the
Company had swap agreements for crude oil contracts in place to hedge
approximately 24% of its 2002 and 20% of its 2003 expected jet fuel
requirements. At December 31, 2001, these contracts had unrealized pretax losses
of $6.2 million. A hypothetical 10% increase in jet fuel prices would increase
2002 fuel expense by approximately $18 million and 2003 fuel expense by
approximately $20 million. A hypothetical 10% decrease in jet fuel prices would
decrease 2002 fuel expense by approximately $19 million and 2003 fuel expense by
approximately $20 million. This analysis includes the effect of the fuel hedging
contracts in place at December 31, 2001. A hypothetical 10% change in the
average interest rates incurred on variable rate debt during 2001 would
correspondingly change the Company’s net earnings and cash flows associated with
these items by approximately $3.0 million.

ITEM 8.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Item 14.

Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (Unaudited)

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter









(in millions, except per share)

Operating revenues

$

489.7

$

516.0

$

552.8

$

579.3

$

602.3

$

583.4

$

532.4

$

462.2

Operating income (loss)

(16.6

)

(49.5

)

13.1

11.3

37.2

12.8

(54.3

)

(96.4

)

Income (loss) before

accounting change

(9.2

)

(33.1

)

8.8

4.7

15.9

25.3

(28.9

)

(36.4

)

Net income (loss)

(66.1

)

(33.1

)

8.8

4.7

15.9

25.3

(28.9

)

(36.4

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share:

Income before acctg change

(0.35

)

(1.25

)

0.33

0.18

0.60

0.95

(1.09

)

(1.37

)

Net income

(2.50

)

(1.25

)

0.33

0.18

0.60

0.95

(1.09

)

(1.37

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:

Income before acctg change

(0.35

)

(1.25

)

0.33

0.18

0.60

0.95

(1.09

)

(1.37

)

Net income

(2.50

)

(1.25

)

0.33

0.18

0.60

0.95

(1.09

)

(1.37

)

ITEM 9.

DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

See “Election of Directors,” incorporated herein by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 30, 2002. See “Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part I
following Item 4 for information relating to executive officers.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See “Executive Compensation,” incorporated herein by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 30, 2002.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,”
incorporated herein by reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for Air
Group’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 30, 2002.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

See “Transactions with Management and Others,” incorporated herein by reference
from the definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group’s Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 30, 2002.

PART IV

ITEM 14.

EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

Page(s)

Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (Unaudited)


Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2000 and 2001

28-29

Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended

December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001


Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended

December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended

December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

33-43

Report of Independent Public Accountants


Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001


See Exhibit Index on page 46.

(b)

On October 3, 2001, November 15,
2001, December 19, 2001, January 4, 2002, and February 15, 2002, reports on Form
8-K were filed discussing estimated financial results under regulation FD
disclosure.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

By:

/s/

JOHN F. KELLY

John F. Kelly

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

Date: February 25, 2002

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on February 25, 2002 on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities indicated.

/s/

JOHN F. KELLY

John F. Kelly

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director

/s/

BRADLEY D. TILDEN

Bradley D. Tilden

Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

/s/

TERRI K. MAUPIN

Terri K. Maupin

Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/

WILLIAM S. AYER

William S. Ayer

Director

/s/

PHYLLIS J. CAMPBELL

Phyllis J. Campbell

Director

/s/

RONALD F. COSGRAVE

Ronald F. Cosgrave

Director

/s/

MARY JANE FATE

Mary Jane Fate

Director

/s/

MARK R. HAMILTON

Mark R. Hamilton

Director

/s/

BRUCE R. KENNEDY

Bruce R. Kennedy

Director

/s/

R. MARC LANGLAND

R. Marc Langland

Director

/s/

BYRON I. MALLOTT

Byron I. Mallott

Director

/s/

JOHN V. RINDLAUB

John V. Rindlaub

Director

/s/

J. KENNETH THOMPSON

J. Kenneth Thompson

Director

/s/

RICHARD A. WIEN

Richard A. Wien

Director


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

ASSETS

As of December 31 (In Millions)



Current Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

101.1

$

490.3

Marketable securities

360.6

170.4

Receivables—less allowance for doubtful

accounts (2000—$1.7; 2001—$1.8)

82.1

83.5

Inventories and supplies

63.7

71.5

Prepaid expenses and other assets

94.6

84.7

Total Current Assets

702.1

900.4

Property and Equipment

Flight equipment

1,638.3

1,971.3

Other property and equipment

362.9

376.2

Deposits for future flight equipment

281.8

127.8

2,283.0

2,475.3

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

563.4

658.7

1,719.6

1,816.6

Capital leases:

Flight and other equipment

44.4

44.4

Less accumulated amortization

33.8

36.0

10.6

8.4

Total Property and Equipment—Net

1,730.2

1,825.0

Intangible Assets—Subsidiaries

53.4

51.4

Other Assets

114.0

157.0

Total Assets

$

2,599.7

$

2,933.8

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

As of December 31

(In Millions Except Share Amounts)



Current Liabilities

Accounts payable

$

140.9

$

122.0

Accrued aircraft rent

85.7

90.1

Accrued wages, vacation and payroll taxes

67.0

76.0

Other accrued liabilities

137.4

204.5

Air traffic liability

213.1

220.4

Current portion of long-term debt and

capital lease obligations

66.7

43.2

Total Current Liabilities

710.8

756.2

Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations

609.2

863.3

Other Liabilities and Credits

Deferred income taxes

125.3

138.4

Deferred revenue

135.8

176.6

Other liabilities

156.3

179.0

417.4

494.0

Commitments

Shareholders’ Equity

Preferred stock, $1 par value

Authorized: 5,000,000 shares

—

—

Common stock, $1 par value

Authorized: 100,000,000 shares

Issued: 2000—29,201,169 shares

2001—29,268,869 shares

29.2

29.3

Capital in excess of par value

481.2

482.5

Treasury stock, at cost: 2000—2,743,774 shares

2001—2,740,501 shares

(62.6

)

(62.6

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

—

(3.9

)

Retained earnings

414.5

375.0

862.3

820.3

Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity

$

2,599.7

$

2,933.8

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Year Ended December 31

(In Millions Except Per Share Amounts)




Operating Revenues

Passenger

$

1,904.8

$

2,032.3

$

1,973.0

Freight and mail

91.2

87.6

86.3

Other—net

86.0

57.3

81.6

Total Operating Revenues

2,082.0

2,177.2

2,140.9

Operating Expenses

Wages and benefits

652.6

715.5

799.3

Contracted services

64.9

77.6

82.0

Aircraft fuel

249.8

383.3

324.3

Aircraft maintenance

144.7

192.3

174.0

Aircraft rent

199.9

186.8

185.9

Food and beverage service

51.7

54.2

58.3

Commissions

99.0

67.1

60.2

Other selling expenses

104.4

121.2

124.9

Depreciation and amortization

84.8

105.5

131.7

Loss on sale of assets

0.9

—

4.7

Landing fees and other rentals

88.4

99.8

129.7

Other

141.3

170.5

177.5

Special charge—Mileage Plan

—

24.0

10.2

Total Operating Expenses

1,882.1

2,197.8

2,262.7

Operating Income (Loss)

199.9

(20.6

)

(121.8

)

Nonoperating Income (Expense)

Interest income

20.2

24.3

25.8

Interest expense

(16.3

)

(36.0

)

(47.4

)

Interest capitalized

10.2

15.5

8.1

U.S. government compensation

—

—

81.4

Other—net

6.7

1.1

(3.6

)

20.8

4.9

64.3

Income (loss) before income tax and accounting change

220.7

(15.7

)

(57.5

)

Income tax expense (credit)

86.5

(2.3

)

(18.0

)

Income (loss) before accounting change

134.2

(13.4

)

(39.5

)

Cumulative effect of accounting change,

net of income taxes of $35.6 million

—

(56.9

)

—

Net Income (Loss)

$

134.2

$

(70.3

)

$

(39.5

)

Basic Earnings (Loss) Per Share:

Income (loss) before accounting change

$

5.09

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

(2.15

)

—

Net Income (Loss)

$

5.09

$

(2.66

)

$

(1.49

)

Diluted Earnings (Loss) Per Share:

Income (loss) before accounting change

$

5.06

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

(2.15

)

—

Net Income (Loss)

$

5.06

$

(2.66

)

$

(1.49

)

Shares used for computation:

Basic

26.372

26.440

26.499

Diluted

26.507

26.440

26.499

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

(In Millions)

Common

Shares

Outstanding

Common

Stock

Capital in

Excess of

Par Value

Treasury

Stock,

at Cost

Deferred

Compen-

sation

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income(Loss)

Retained

Earnings

Total

Balances at December 31, 1998

26.224

$

29.0

$

473.9

$

(62.7

)

$

(1.3

)

$

0.0

$

350.6

$

789.5

1999 net income

134.2

134.2

Stock issued under stock plans

0.183

0.2

4.7

4.9

Tax benefit related to

stock issued to employees

0.0

1.4

1.4

Treasury stock sales

0.004

0.0

0.0

Employee Stock Ownership Plan

shares allocated

0.7

0.7

Balances at December 31, 1999

26.411

29.2

480.0

(62.7

)

(0.6

)

0.0

484.8

930.7

2000 net loss

(70.3

)

(70.3

)

Stock issued under stock plans

0.043

0.0

1.2

1.2

Treasury stock sales

0.003

0.1

0.0

0.1

Employee Stock Ownership Plan

shares allocated

0.6

0.6

Balances at December 31, 2000

26.457

$

29.2

$

481.2

$

(62.6

)

$

0.0

$

(3.9

)

$

414.5

$

862.3

2001 net loss

(39.5

)

(39.5

)

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Fuel hedging losses,

net of $2.3 tax credit

0.196

0.3

4.6

(3.9

)

(3.9

)

Total comprehensive income (loss)

(43.4

)

Treasury stock sales

0.003

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Stock issued under stock plans

0.068

0.1

1.3

1.4

Balances at December 31, 2001

26.528

$

29.3

$

482.5

$

(62.6

)

$

0.0

$

(3.9

)

$

375.0

$

820.3

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Year Ended December 31 (In Millions)




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

134.2

$

(70.3

)

$

(39.5

)

Adjustments to reconcile net income
(loss) to

net cash provided by operating activities:

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

56.9

—

Special charges

—

24.0

10.2

Depreciation and amortization

84.8

105.5

131.7

Amortization of airframe and engine overhauls

50.1

65.3

73.4

Loss on sale of assets

0.9

—

4.7

Increase (decrease) in deferred income tax liabilities

44.8

(18.7

)

15.0

Increase in accounts receivable—net

(4.0

)

(7.5

)

(1.4

)

Increase in other current assets

(2.4

)

(23.6

)

(7.5

)

Increase in air traffic liability

5.1

29.4

7.2

Increase in other current liabilities

48.4

62.4

55.6

Increase (decrease) in deferred revenue and other—net

(31.8

)

41.6

28.9

Net cash provided by operating activities

330.1

265.0

278.3

Cash flows from investing activities:

Proceeds from disposition of assets

2.2

39.1

2.5

Purchases of marketable securities

(137.8

)

(464.1

)

(234.4

)

Sales and maturities of marketable securities

218.5

300.0

424.6

Flight equipment deposits returned

8.3

4.0

87.8

Additions to flight equipment deposits

(177.0

)

(161.3

)

(65.6

)

Additions to property and equipment

(388.0

)

(287.3

)

(317.9

)

Restricted deposits and other

5.9

(0.4

)

(18.1

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(467.9

)

(570.0

)

(121.1

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions

29.8

—

—

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

232.0

338.2

384.5

Long-term debt and capital lease payments

(27.2

)

(65.8

)

(153.9

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

6.3

1.2

1.4

Net cash provided by financing activities

240.9

273.6

232.0

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

103.1

(31.4

)

389.2

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

29.4

132.5

101.1

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

132.5

$

101.1

$

490.3

Supplemental disclosure of cash paid (refunded) during the year for:

Interest (net of amount capitalized)

$

6.6

$

28.5

$

49.9

Income taxes

35.1

3.6

(18.4

)

Noncash investing and financing activities

None

None

None

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

December 31, 2001

Note 1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization and Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Alaska Air Group,
Inc. (Company or Air Group) and its subsidiaries, the principal subsidiaries
being Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries, Inc. (Horizon).
All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated. The preparation of
these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires the use of management’s
estimates. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain
reclassifications have been made in prior years’ financial statements to conform
to the 2001 presentation.

Nature of Operations

Alaska and Horizon operate as airlines. However, their business plans,
competition, and economic risks differ substantially. Alaska is a major airline
serving primarily Alaska; Vancouver, Canada; the U.S. West Coast; and Mexico. It
operates an all jet fleet and its average passenger trip is 896 miles. Horizon
is a regional airline serving primarily the Pacific Northwest, Northern
California, and Western Canada. It operates both jet and turboprop aircraft, and
its average passenger trip is 289 miles. Substantially all of Alaska’s and
Horizon’s sales occur in the United States. See Note 11 for operating segment
information.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with purchase maturities
of three months or less. They are carried at cost, which approximates market.
The Company reduces its cash balance when checks are disbursed. Due to the time
delay in checks clearing the banks, the Company normally maintains a negative
cash balance on its books, which is reported as a current liability. The amount
of the negative cash balance was $31.6 million and $19.8 million at December 31,
2000 and 2001, respectively.

Inventories and Supplies – net

Expendable and repairable aircraft parts, as well as other materials and
supplies, are stated at average cost. An allowance for obsolescence of flight
equipment expendable and repairable parts is accrued based on estimated disposal
date and salvage value. Surplus inventories are carried at their net realizable
value. At December 31, 2000 and 2001, the allowance for all inventories was
$27.6 million and $38.4 million, respectively.

Property, Equipment and Depreciation

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated using the
straight–line method over their estimated useful lives, which are as follows:

Aircraft and related flight equipment:

Boeing 737-200C

10–14 years

Boeing 737-400/700/900

20 years

Boeing MD-80

20 years

Bombardier Dash 8

10 years

Bombardier CRJ 700

10 years

Fokker F-28

12/31/02*

Buildings

10-30 years

Capitalized leases and

leasehold improvements

Term of lease

Other equipment

3-15 years

* Estimated final aircraft retirement date

Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. The cost of major
airframe and engine overhauls are capitalized and amortized to maintenance
expense over the periods benefited. Major modifications that extend the life or
improve the usefulness of aircraft are capitalized and depreciated over their
estimated period of use. Assets and related obligations for items


financed under capital leases are initially recorded at an amount equal to the
present value of the future minimum lease payments. The Company reviews
long–lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the total amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment
loss is recognized when estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to
result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its
carrying amount. If the asset is not considered recoverable, an amount equal to
the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value will be charged against
the asset with a corresponding expense to the income statement.

Intangible Assets–Subsidiaries

The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is
recorded as an intangible asset and is amortized over 40 years. Accumulated
amortization at December 31, 2000 and 2001 was $29.3 million and $31.3 million,
respectively. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, “Business
Combinations” (effective July 1, 2001) and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets”. SFAS No. 141 prohibits pooling–of–interests accounting for
acquisitions. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company will adopt SFAS No. 142.
Under this statement, the Company’s intangible assets are considered to have an
indefinite life and will no longer be amortized but instead will be subject to
periodic impairment testing. The impact of this change is expected to increase
annual net income by $2.0 million.

Deferred Revenue

Deferred revenue results from the sale of mileage credits, the sale and
leaseback of aircraft, and the receipt of manufacturer or vendor credits. This
revenue is recognized when award transportation is provided or over the term of
the applicable agreements.

Leased Aircraft Return Costs

The costs associated with returning leased aircraft are accrued over the lease
periods. As leased aircraft are retired, the costs are charged against the
established reserve. The reserve is part of other liabilities, and at December
31, 2000 and 2001 was $57.9 million and $61.4 million, respectively.

Revenue Recognition

Passenger revenues are recognized when the passenger travels. Tickets sold but
not yet used are reported as air traffic liability. Freight and mail revenues
are recognized when service is provided. Other–net revenues are primarily
related to the Mileage Plan and they are recognized as described in the
“Frequent Flyer Awards” paragraph below.

Frequent Flyer Awards

Alaska operates a frequent flyer program (“Mileage Plan”) that provides travel
awards to members based on accumulated mileage. For miles earned by flying on
Alaska and travel partners, the estimated incremental cost of providing free
travel awards is recognized as a selling expense and accrued as a liability as
miles are accumulated. Alaska also sells mileage credits to non–airline
partners, such as hotels, car rental agencies, and a credit card company.
Effective January 1, 2000, the Company began deferring a majority of the sales
proceeds and recognizing the proceeds as revenue when the award transportation
is provided. The deferred proceeds are recognized as passenger revenue for
awards issued on Alaska, and as other–net revenue for awards issued on other
airlines. Alaska’s Mileage Plan liabilities are included under the following
balance sheet captions at December 31 (in millions):




Current Liabilities:

Other accrued liabilities

$

59.5

$

67.3

Other Liabilities and Credits:

Deferred revenue

94.0

123.0

Other liabilities

45.0

58.0

Total

$

198.5

$

248.3

Contracted Services

Contracted services includes expenses for ground handling, security, navigation
fees, temporary employees, data processing fees, and other similar services.

Other Selling Expenses

Other selling expenses includes credit card commissions, computerized
reservations systems (CRS) charges, Mileage Plan free travel awards,
advertising, and promotional costs. Advertising production costs are expensed
the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense was $17.0
million, $19.7 million, and $17.1 million, respectively, in 1999, 2000, and
2001.

Capitalized Interest

Interest is capitalized on flight equipment purchase deposits and ground
facility progress payments as a cost of the related asset and is depreciated
over the estimated useful life of the asset. Commencing in November 2001, the
Company ceased capitalization of interest on aircraft with deferred delivery
dates. Capitalization will commence when the deferral period is over.

Income Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, which requires the recognition of deferred tax
assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that
have been recognized in the Company’s financial statements or tax returns.

Stock Options

The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in
accounting for stock options. See Note 6 for more information.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, as amended. SFAS No. 133
requires companies to record derivatives on the balance sheet as assets or
liabilities, measured at fair value. The Company’s operating results can be
significantly impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel. To manage the
risks associated with changes in aircraft fuel prices, the Company uses call
options and swap agreements for crude oil contracts. These contracts, referred
to as “fuel hedge contracts”, have a high correlation to changes in aircraft
fuel prices, and therefore qualify as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. Upon
adoption of SFAS No. 133, the Company recorded the fair market value of its fuel
hedging contracts on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Each period, the contracts
are adjusted to fair market value. The change in the value of the fuel hedge
contracts that perfectly offsets the change in the value of the aircraft fuel
purchase being hedged is recorded as comprehensive income/loss until the hedged
contract is settled and is then recognized in earnings. To the extent the change
in the value of the fuel hedge contracts does not perfectly offset the change in
the value of the aircraft fuel purchase being hedged, that portion of the hedge
is recognized in earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company
recognized $3.3 million of nonoperating expense related to fair market value
changes in fuel hedge contracts. At December 31, 2001, the Company’s fuel hedge
contracts for 170 million gallons of projected jet fuel usage in 2002 and 2003,
had unrealized losses of $3.9 million net of income taxes, recorded in other
comprehensive income.


The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts, generally with
maturities of less than one month, to manage the risk associated with net
foreign currency transactions. Resulting gains and losses are recognized
currently in other operating expense. The Company periodically enters into
interest rate swap agreements to hedge interest rate risk. At December 31, 2001,
there were no foreign currency contracts or interest rate swap agreements
outstanding.

New Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations” (effective for the Company on January 1, 2003). This Statement
addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long–lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long–Lived Assets” (effective for the Company on
January 1, 2002). This Statement supersedes SFAS No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long–Lived Assets and for Long–Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of” and
APB Opinion No. 30, “Reporting the Results of Operations – Reporting the Effects
of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and
Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions”. The Company is in the process
of evaluating the financial statement impact of SFAS No. 143 and SFAS No. 144.

Note 2.  Marketable Securities

Marketable securities are investments that are readily convertible to cash and
have original maturities that exceed three months. They are carried at cost,
classified as available for sale and consisted of the following at December 31
(in millions):



Cost:

U.S. government securities

$

245.5

$

59.7

Asset backed obligations

79.1

72.9

Other corporate obligations

36.0

37.8

$

360.6

$

170.4

Fair value:

U.S. government securities

$

246.3

$

59.8

Asset backed obligations

79.5

73.2

Other corporate obligations

36.4

38.5

$

362.2

$

171.5

There were no material unrealized holding gains or losses at December 31, 2000
or 2001.

Of the marketable securities on hand at December 31, 2001, 83% are expected to
mature in 2002, 13% in 2003, and 4% in 2004. Based on specific identification of
securities sold, the following occurred in 1999, 2000, and 2001 (in millions):




Proceeds from sales

and maturities

$

218.5

$

300.0

$

424.6

Gross realized gains

0.4

0.3

4.0

Gross realized losses

0.3

0.6

0.4

Realized gains and losses are reported as a component of interest income.

Note 3.  Other Assets

Other assets consisted of the following at December 31 (in millions):



Prepaid pension cost

$

73.3

$

98.4

Restricted deposits

26.2

44.5

Deferred costs and other

14.5

14.1

$

114.0

$

157.0

At December 31, 2000, Alaska owned approximately 81,000 depository certificates
convertible, subject to certain restrictions, into the common stock of Equant
N.V., a telecommunication network company. At December 31, 2000, the
certificates had an estimated fair value of $2.0 million. During 2001, France
Telecom purchased Equant N.V. At December 31, 2001 the certificates had an
estimated fair value of $1.4 million. Alaska’s carrying value of the
certificates was de minimis.


Note 4.  Long–term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations

At December 31, 2000 and 2001, long–term debt and capital lease obligations were
as follows (in millions):



7.4%* fixed rate notes payable

due through 2015

$

406.4

$

420.7

4.6%* variable rate notes payable

due through 2018

251.7

470.9

Long-term debt

658.1

891.6

Capital lease obligations

17.8

14.9

Less current portion

(66.7

)

(43.2

)

$

609.2

$

863.3

* weighted average for 2001

At December 31, 2001, borrowings of $726.3 million were secured by flight
equipment and real property. During 2001, Alaska issued $234.5 million of debt
secured by flight equipment, including $64.5 million with fixed interest rates
of approximately 6.8% and a term of 12 years. Interest rates on the other $170.0
million varies with LIBOR and has payment terms of 12 to 16.5 years. In
September 2001, Alaska borrowed $150 million under its credit facility at an
interest rate that varies with LIBOR and is payable on or before December 31,
2004.

At December 31, 2001, long–term debt principal payments for the next five years
were (in millions):


$

40.1


$

42.4


$

217.9


$

35.8


$

38.4

Certain Alaska loan agreements contain provisions that require maintenance of
specific levels of net worth, leverage and fixed charge coverage, and limit
investments, lease obligations, sales of assets, and additional indebtedness. At
December 31, 2001, the Company was in compliance with all loan provisions.

Note 5.  Commitments

Lease Commitments

The Company has lease contracts for 101 aircraft that have remaining
noncanceable lease terms of one to 16 years. The majority of airport and
terminal facilities are also leased, with terms ranging from one to 88 years.
Total rent expense was $244.3 million, $242.0 million and $254.0 million, in
1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively. Future minimum lease payments with
noncancelable terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2001 are shown
below (in millions):

Operating Leases

Capital

Leases

Aircraft

Facilities


$

201.5

$

29.1

$

4.1


169.9

27.3

4.1


146.0

25.5

8.4


141.3

24.8

0.2


138.5

14.4

0.1

Thereafter

1,062.9

121.2

0.1

Total lease payments

$

1,860.1

$

242.3

17.0

Less amount representing interest

(2.1

)

Present value of capital lease payments

$

14.9

Aircraft Commitments

The Company has firm orders for eight Boeing 737 series aircraft to be delivered
between 2002 and 2004, three Bombardier Dash 8–400s during 2002, and 21
Bombardier CRJ 700 jets between 2002 and 2005. The firm orders require payments
of approximately $731 million between 2002 and 2005. As of December 31, 2001,
deposits of $118 million related to the firm orders had been made. In addition
to the ordered aircraft, the Company holds purchase options on 26 Boeing 737s,
15 Dash 8–400s, and 25 CRJ 700s.

Note 6.  Stock Plans

Air Group has three stock option plans, that provide for the purchase of Air
Group common stock at a stipulated price on the date of grant by certain
officers and key employees of Air Group and its subsidiaries. Under the 1996,
1997, and 1999 Plans, options for 3,193,800 shares have been granted and, at
December 31, 2001, 117,900 shares were available for grant. Under all plans, the
incentive and nonqualified stock options


granted have terms of up to approximately ten years.
Substantially all grantees are 25% vested after one year, 50% after two years,
75% after three years, and 100% after four years.

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black–Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions used for
grants in 1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively: dividend yield of 0% for all
years; volatility of 40%, 44%, and 44%; risk–free interest rates of 5.53%,
6.62%, and 4.26%; and expected lives of 5 years for all years. Using these
assumptions, the weighted average fair value of options granted was $17.39,
$14.58, and $12.71 in 1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively.

Air Group follows APB Opinion 25 and related Interpretations in accounting for
stock options. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for these
plans. Had compensation cost for the Company’s stock options been determined in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, income
before accounting change and applicable earnings per share (EPS) would have been
reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below.




Income (loss) before accounting change (in millions):

As reported

$

134.2

$

(13.4

)

$

(39.5

)

Pro forma

131.0

(17.9

)

(45.4

)

Basic EPS:

As reported

$

5.09

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Pro forma

4.97

(0.68

)

(1.71

)

Diluted EPS:

As reported

$

5.06

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Pro forma

4.94

(0.68

)

(1.71

)

Changes in the number of shares subject to option, with their weighted average
exercise prices, are summarized below:

Shares

Price

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1998

1,040,150

$

31.96

Granted

494,400

46.81

Exercised

(148,688

)

20.19

Canceled

(47,050

)

38.66

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1999

1,338,812

38.51

Granted

609,900

30.27

Exercised

(21,725

)

16.66

Canceled

(106,050

)

38.11

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 2000

1,820,937

34.10

Granted

1,252,900

28.52

Exercised

(67,950

)

18.87

Canceled

(104,275

)

36.37

Outstanding, Dec. 31, 2001

2,901,612

$

31.96

Exercisable at year-end

December 31, 1999

434,612

$

28.95

December 31, 2000

736,462

32.52

December 31, 2001

1,022,962

34.67

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at
December 31, 2001 with their weighted average remaining contractual lives:

Range of

Exercise prices

Remaining

Life (years)

Shares

Price

Outstanding:

$15 to $29

8.3

919,350

$

24.26

$30 to $40

8.1

1,713,937

33.66

$41 to $58

6.3

268,325

47.52

$15 to $58

8.0

2,901,612

$

31.96

Exercisable:

$15 to $29

258,725

$

21.54

$30 to $40

551,437

35.89

$41 to $58

212,800

47.49

$15 to $58

1,022,962

$

34.67

Note 7.  Employee Benefit Plans

Pension Plans

Four defined benefit and five defined contribution retirement plans cover
various employee groups of Alaska and Horizon.

The defined benefit plans provide benefits based on an employee’s term of
service and average compensation for a specified period of time before
retirement. Pension plans are funded as required by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). The defined benefit plan assets consist
primarily of marketable equity and fixed income securities. The following table
sets forth the status of the plans for 2000 and 2001 (in millions):




Projected benefit obligation

Beginning of year

$

369.3

$

430.2

Service cost

24.0

29.0

Interest cost

28.5

32.3

Amendments

0.7

5.2

Change in assumptions

16.0

16..4

Actuarial loss

0.9

6.2

Benefits paid

(9.2

)

(12.1

)

End of year

$

430.2

$

507.2

Plan assets at fair value

Beginning of year

$

437.1

$

438.7

Actual return on plan assets

5.8

(17.1

)

Employer contributions

5.0

45.0

Benefits paid

(9.2

)

(12.1

)

End of year

$

438.7

$

454.5

Funded status

8.5

(52.7

)

Unrecognized loss

13.9

99.6

Unrecognized transition asset

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

51.0

51.6

Prepaid pension cost

$

73.3

$

98.4

Weighted average assumptions

as of December 31

Discount rate

7.50

%

7.25

%

Expected return on plan assets

10.0

%

10.0

%

Rate of compensation increase

5.4

%

5.4

%

Net pension expense for the defined benefit plans included the following
components for 1999, 2000, and 2001 (in millions):




Service cost

$

25.8

$

24.0

$

29.0

Interest cost

25.3

28.5

32.3

Expected return on assets

(36.7

)

(43.4

)

(46.0

)

Amortization of prior service cost

4.4

4.5

4.6

Recognized actuarial loss (gain)

0.1

(0.1

)

0.1

Amortization of transition asset

(0.2

)

—

—

Net pension expense

$

18.7

$

13.5

$

20.0

Alaska and Horizon also maintain an unfunded, noncontributory benefit plan for
certain elected officers. The unfunded accrued pension cost for this plan was
$28 million as of December 31, 2001.

The defined contribution plans are deferred compensation plans under section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. All of these plans require Company
contributions. Total expense for the defined contribution plans was $13.5
million, $16.9 million, and $19.0 million, respectively, in 1999, 2000, and
2001.

Profit Sharing Plans

Alaska and Horizon have employee profit sharing plans. Profit sharing expense
for 1999 was $22.8 million, and there was no expense for 2000 and 2001.

Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company allows retirees to continue their medical, dental, and vision
benefits by paying all or a portion of the active employee plan premium until
eligible for Medicare, currently age 65. This results in a subsidy to retirees,
because the premiums received by the Company are less than the actual cost of
the retirees’ claims. The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO)
for this subsidy is unfunded, and at December 31, 2000 and 2001 was $28.7
million and $32.6 million, respectively. The accrued liability related to the
subsidy is included with other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet,
and totaled $23.4 million and $27.4 million at December 31, 2000 and 2001,
respectively. Annual expense related to this subsidy was approximately $4.0
million in 1999, 2000, and 2001.

Note 8.  Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the timing of
recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial reporting purposes.


Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise the following at December 31 (in
millions):



Excess of tax over book depreciation

$

209.4

$

283.6

Employee benefits

5.9

1.2

Other—net

6.0

0.1

Gross deferred tax liabilities

221.3

284.9

Frequent flyer program

(70.8

)

(88.0

)

Alternative minimum tax

(0.1

)

(21.7

)

Aircraft return provisions

(15.8

)

(18.5

)

Inventory obsolescence

(10.7

)

(14.5

)

Deferred gains

(12.4

)

(13.4

)

Asset impairment

—

(3.6

)

Fuel hedges

—

(2.3

)

Other–net

(7.3

)

(12.8

)

Gross deferred tax assets

(117.1

)

(174.8

)

Net deferred tax liabilities

$

104.2

$

110.1

Current deferred tax asset

$

(21.1

)

$

(28.3

)

Noncurrent deferred tax liability

125.3

138.4

Net deferred tax liability

$

104.2

$

110.1

The components of
income tax expense (credit) were as follows (in millions):




Current tax expense (credit):

Federal

$

31.0

$

(1.8

)

$

(25.0

)

State

6.8

0.1

(1.2

)

Total current

37.8

(1.7

)

(26.2

)

Deferred tax expense (credit):

Federal

45.5

(0.1

)

8.8

State

3.2

(0.5

)

(0.6

)

Total deferred

48.7

(0.6

)

8.2

Total before acctg. change

86.5

(2.3

)

(18.0

)

Deferred tax credit, cumulative

effect of acctg. change

—

(35.6

)

—

Total tax expense (credit)

$

86.5

$

(37.9

)

$

(18.0

)

Income tax expense (credit) reconciles to the amount computed by applying the
U.S. federal rate of 35% to income before taxes and accounting change as follows
(in millions):




Income (loss) before income tax

and accounting change

$

220.7

$

(15.7

)

$

(57.5

)

Expected tax expense (credit)

$

77.2

$

(5.5

)

$

(20.1

)

Nondeductible expenses

2.6

3.4

3.3

State income tax

6.7

(0.2

)

(1.1

)

Other—net

—

—

(0.1

)

Actual tax expense (credit)

$

86.5

$

(2.3

)

$

(18.0

)

Effective tax rate

39.2

%

14.6

%

31.3

%

After consideration of temporary differences, the taxable loss for 2001 was
approximately $60 million.

Note 9.  Financial Instruments

The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments were as follows
(in millions):

December 31, 2000

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

101.1

$

101.1

Marketable securities

360.6

362.2

Fuel hedge contracts

3.3

2.1

Restricted deposits and depository certificates

26.2

28.2

Liabilities:

Long-term debt

658.1

678.1

December 31, 2001

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

490.3

$

490.3

Marketable securities

170.4

171.5

Restricted deposits and depository certificates

44.5

45.9

Liabilities:

Fuel hedge contracts

6.2

6.2

Long-term debt

891.6

904.6

The fair value of cash equivalents approximates carrying value due to the short
maturity of these instruments. The fair value of marketable securities is based
on quoted


market prices. The fair value of fuel hedge contracts is based
on commodity exchange prices. The fair value of restricted deposits approximates
the carrying amount. At December 31, 2000, the fair value of restricted
depository certificates convertible into the common stock of Equant N.V. was
$2.0 million based on a purchase offer from France Telecom. At December 31,
2001, the fair value of these certificates was $1.4 million based on the market
value of France Telecom stock. The fair value of long–term debt is based on a
discounted cash flow analysis using the Company’s current borrowing
rate.

Note 10.  Earnings per Share (EPS)

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the average number of common
shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing net income plus the
after–tax interest expense on convertible debt by the average common shares
outstanding plus additional common shares that would have been outstanding if
conversion of the convertible debt and exercise of in–the–money stock options is
assumed. Stock options excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because they
are antidilutive, represented 0.3 million, 1.8 million, and 2.9 million shares,
respectively, in 1999, 2000, and 2001. EPS calculations were as follows (in
millions except per share amounts):




Basic

Income (loss) before accounting change

$

134.2

$

(13.4

)

$

(39.5

)

Avg. shares outstanding

26.372

26.440

26.499

EPS before acctg. change

$

5.09

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Diluted

Income (loss) before accounting change

$

134.2

$

(13.4

)

$

(39.5

)

Avg. shares outstanding

26.372

26.440

26.499

Assumed exercise of

stock options

0.135

—

—

Diluted EPS shares

26.507

26.440

26.499

EPS before acctg. change

$

5.06

$

(0.51

)

$

(1.49

)

Note 11.   Operating Segment Information

Financial information for Alaska and
Horizon follows (in millions):




Operating revenues:

Alaska

$

1,680.8

$

1,749.0

$

1,750.9

Horizon

415.9

443.5

408.4

Elimination of intercompany revenues

(14.7

)

(15.3

)

(18.4

)

Consolidated

2,082.0

2,177.2

2,140.9

Depreciation and amortization expense:

Alaska

67.9

83.9

103.6

Horizon

16.7

20.7

26.7

Other

0.2

0.9

1.4

Consolidated

84.8

105.5

131.7

Interest income:

Alaska

21.7

27.9

29.6

Horizon

—

—

0.1

Other

(1.5

)

(3.6

)

(3.9

)

Consolidated

20.2

24.3

25.8

Interest expense:

Alaska

16.3

36.0

47.4

Horizon

1.5

3.1

3.1

Other

(1.5

)

(3.1

)

(3.1

)

Consolidated

16.3

36.0

47.4

Income (loss) before income tax

and accounting change:

Alaska

196.4

(8.2

)

(13.8

)

Horizon

25.5

(5.8

)

(41.6

)

Other

(1.2

)

(1.7

)

(2.1

)

Consolidated

220.7

(15.7

)

(57.5

)

Capital expenditures:

Alaska

482.7

373.4

341.9

Horizon

82.3

75.2

41.6

Consolidated

565.0

448.6

383.5

Total assets at end of period:

Alaska

1,981.2

2,376.1

2,741.7

Horizon

213.0

258.7

240.1

Other

945.7

876.3

847.2

Elimination of intercompany accounts

(959.8

)

(911.4

)

(895.2

)

Consolidated

$

2,180.1

$

2,599.7

$

2,933.8


Note 12.  Special Charges

Mileage Plan

In June 2000, Alaska recorded a $24.0 million special charge to recognize the
increased incremental cost of travel awards earned by flying on Alaska and
travel partners. The higher cost is due to an increase in the estimated costs
Alaska incurs to acquire awards on other airlines for its Mileage Plan members,
as well as lower assumed forfeiture of miles.

Asset Impairment

In December 2001, Horizon recorded a $10.2 million special charge to recognize
the loss in value of its owned Fokker F–28 aircraft and related spare parts,
which have a net book value of $16.2 million, net of the impairment charge, at
December 31, 2001. The F–28s, which are being replaced with more fuel–efficient
CRJ 700 regional jets, are expected to be completely out of service by December
31, 2002.

Note 13.  U.S. Government Compensation

In September, 2001, the U.S. Government passed the Air Transportation Safety and
System Stabilization Act to provide $5 billion of cash compensation and $10
billion of loan guarantees to U.S. airlines. The purpose of the Act was to
compensate the airlines for direct and incremental losses for the period
September 11 through December 31, 2001 as a result of the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

Alaska estimates that its share of the $5 billion cash compensation is $83.9
million, and through December 31, 2001, it has received $71.6 million. The
ultimate amount to be received is based on submission and approval of Alaska’s
final application in 2002. This amount may be higher or lower than the amount of
cash that has been received to date, but management believes Alaska incurred
losses in excess of $83.9 million, and will qualify for reimbursement of the
maximum amount. To date, Alaska has recognized as income the $71.6 million of
cash that has been received.

Horizon estimates that its share of the $5 billion cash compensation is $9.8
million, and through December 31, 2001, it has received $8.3 million. The
ultimate amount to be received is based on submission and approval of Horizon’s
final application in 2002. This amount may be higher or lower than the amount of
cash that has been received to date, but management believes Horizon incurred
losses in excess of $9.8 million, and will qualify for reimbursement of the
maximum amount. To date, Horizon has recognized $9.8 million as income.

Note 14.  Contingencies

Oakland Maintenance Investigation

In December 1998, the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of California
initiated a grand jury investigation concerning certain 1998 maintenance
activities at Alaska’s Oakland maintenance base. The investigation also included
the aircraft involved in the loss of Flight 261 in January 2000. The FAA
separately proposed a civil penalty, which Alaska and the FAA have settled for
an agreed amount. In December 2001, the U.S. attorney notified Alaska that the
evidence it had gathered did not warrant the filing of criminal charges. Alaska
expects no further material activity in this matter.

Flight 261 Litigation

Alaska is a defendant in a number of lawsuits relating to the loss of Flight 261
on January 31, 2000. Representatives of all 88 passengers and crew on board have
filed cases against Alaska, the Boeing Company, and others. The suits seek
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. In May 2001, the judge presiding
over the majority of the cases ruled that punitive damages are not available
against Alaska. Alaska has settled a number of these cases and continues in its
efforts to settle the remaining ones. Consistent with


industry standards, the Company maintains insurance against
aircraft accidents.

Management believes the ultimate disposition of the above
matters is not likely to materially affect the Company’s financial position or
results of operations. This forward–looking statement is based on management’s
current understanding of the relevant law and facts; it is subject to various
contingencies, including the potential costs and risks associated with
litigation and the actions of judges and juries.

The Company is also a party to other ordinary routine litigation
incidental to its business and with respect to which no material liability is
expected.

Note 15.  Change in Accounting Principle

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin 101 (SAB 101), Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. SAB 101
gives specific guidance on the conditions that must be met before revenue may be
recognized, and in June 2000 Alaska changed its method of accounting for the
sale of miles in its Mileage Plan. Under the new method, a majority of the sales
proceeds is deferred, then recognized ratably over the estimated period of time
that the award transportation is provided. The deferred proceeds are recognized
as passenger revenue for awards issued on Alaska, and as other revenue–net for
awards issued on other airlines. In connection with the change, Alaska
recognized a $56.9 million cumulative effect charge, net of income taxes of
$35.6 million, effective January 1, 2000.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Alaska Air Group, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alaska Air
Group, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001
and 2000, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2001. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

As explained in Notes 1 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements,
effective January 1, 2000, the Company changed its method of accounting for the
sale of airline miles in its Mileage Plan.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in Item 14(a) is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Seattle, Washington

January 25, 2002


VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Alaska Air Group, Inc.

Schedule II

(In Millions)

Beginning

Balance

Additions

Charged

to Expense

(A)

Deductions

Ending

Balance

Year Ended December 31, 1999

(a) Reserve deducted from asset

to which it applies:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1.0

$

1.2

$

(1.2

)

$

1.0

Obsolescence allowance for flight

equipment spare parts

$

20.2

$

5.2

$

(1.6

)

$

23.8

(b) Reserve recorded as other

long-term liabilities:

Leased aircraft return provision

$

48.7

$

12.1

$

(11.9

)

$

48.9

Year Ended December 31, 2000

(a) Reserve deducted from asset

to which it applies:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1.0

$

2.0

$

(1.3

)

$

1.7

Obsolescence allowance for flight

equipment spare parts

$

23.8

$

4.0

$

(0.2

)

$

27.6

(b) Reserve recorded as other

long-term liabilities:

Leased aircraft return provision

$

48.9

$

10.2

$

(1.2

)

$

57.9

Year Ended December 31, 2001

(a) Reserve deducted from asset

to which it applies:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1.7

$

2.5

$

(2.4

)

$

1.8

Obsolescence allowance for flight

equipment spare parts

$

27.6

$

11.5

$

(0.7

)

$

38.4

(b) Reserve recorded as other

long-term liabilities:

Leased aircraft return provision

$

57.9

$

12.6

$

(9.1

)

$

61.4

(A)    Deduction from reserve for purpose for which reserve was created.


EXHIBIT INDEX

Certain of the following exhibits have
heretofore been filed with the Commission and are incorporated herein by
reference from the document described in parenthesis. Certain others are filed
herewith.

3.(i)

Articles of Incorporation of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
as amended through May 21, 1999

3.(ii)

Bylaws of Alaska Air Group, Inc., as amended
through January 26, 2000 (Exhibit 3.(ii) to First Quarter 2000 10-Q)

4.1

Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated 8/7/96
between Alaska Air Group, Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights
Agent (Exhibit 2.1 to Form 8A-A filed 8/8/96)

10.1

Management Incentive Plan (2000 Proxy Statement)

10.2

Loan Agreement dated as of December 1, 1984,
between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and the Industrial Development Corporation of the
Port of Seattle (Exhibit 10-38 to 1984 10-K)

10.3

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, as
amended through May 19, 1992 (Registration Statement No. 33-52242)

#10.4

Lease Agreement dated January 22, 1990 between
International Lease Finance Corporation and Alaska Airlines, Inc. for the lease
of a B737-400 aircraft, summaries of 19 substantially identical lease agreements
and Letter Agreement #1 dated January 22, 1990 (Exhibit 10-14 to 1990
10-K)

#10.5

Agreement dated September 18, 1996 between Alaska
Airlines, Inc. and Boeing for the purchase of 12 Boeing 737-400 aircraft
(Exhibit 10.1 to Third Quarter 1996 10-Q)

#10.6

Agreement dated August 28, 1996 between Horizon Air
Industries, Inc. and Bombardier for the purchase of 25 de Havilland Dash 8-200
aircraft (Exhibit 10.2 to Third Quarter 1996 10-Q)

10.7

Supplemental retirement plan arrangement between
Horizon Air Industries, Inc. and George D. Bagley (1996 Proxy
Statement)

10.8

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1996 Long-Term Incentive
Equity Plan (Registration Statement 333-09547)

10.9

Alaska Air Group, Inc. Non Employee Director Stock
Plan (Registration Statement 333-33727)

10.10

Alaska Air Group, Inc. Profit Sharing Stock
Purchase Plan (Registration Statement 333-39889)

10.11

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1997 Non Officer Long-Term
Incentive Equity Plan (Registration Statement 333-39899)

10.12

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1981 Supplementary
Retirement Plan for Elected Officers (Exhibit 10.15 to 1997 10-K)F

10.13

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1995 Supplementary
Retirement Plan for Elected Officers (Exhibit 10.16 to 1997 10-K)

#10.14

Agreement dated December 21, 1998 between Horizon
Air Industries, Inc. and Bombardier for the purchase of 25 Canadair regional
jets series 700 aircraft

10.15

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1999 Long-Term Incentive
Equity Plan (Registration Statement 333-87563)

10.16

Alaska Air Group, Inc. Change of Control Agreement
dated October 27, 1999

*12

Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges


Subsidiaries of the Registrant (Exhibit 22-01 to 1987 10-K)

*23

Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP

*   Filed herewith.

#   Confidential treatment was granted as to a portion of this document.

46