
10-K405


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC  20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
X	ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
 OF	1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
		OR
	TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
 ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from  . . . . . . . .  to  . . . . . . . .

Commission File Number 1-8957
ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

	Delaware	91-1292054
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)	(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

19300 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, Washington 98188
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (206) 431-7040

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

	  Title of Each Class		         Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value	   New York Stock Exchange
Rights to Purchase Series A
Participating Preferred Stock   	New York Stock Exchange

	As of December 31, 1998, common shares outstanding totaled 26,224,005.  The 
aggregate market value of the common shares of Alaska Air Group, Inc. held by 
nonaffiliates, 26,156,752 shares, was approximately $1.157 billion
(based on the closing price of these shares, $44.25, on the New York Stock
Exchange on such date).

	Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    X    No ____

 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ( X )

DOCUMENTS TO BE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
	Title of Document		        Part Hereof Into Which Document to be Incorporated
Definitive Proxy Statement
Relating to 1999 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders        Part III

Exhibit Index begins on page 35.

PART I

ITEM 1.	BUSINESS

GENERAL INFORMATION
Alaska Air Group, Inc. (Air Group or the Company) is a holding company 
that was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.  Its two principal 
subsidiaries are Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air 
Industries, Inc. (Horizon).  Both subsidiaries operate as airlines, 
although their business plans, competition and economic risks differ 
substantially.  Alaska is a major airline, operates an all jet fleet, 
and its average passenger trip length is 864 miles.  Horizon is a 
regional airline, operates jet and turboprop aircraft, and its average 
passenger trip is 260 miles. Individual financial information for Alaska 
and Horizon is reported in Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Air Group's executive offices are located at 19300 Pacific Highway 
South, Seattle, Washington 98188.  The business of the Company is 
somewhat seasonal.  Quarterly operating income tends to peak during the 
third quarter.

Alaska
Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and 
incorporated in 1937.  Alaska serves 35 cities in six states (Alaska, 
Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada and Arizona), one city in Canada 
and five cities in Mexico. In each year since 1973, Alaska has carried 
more passengers between Alaska and the U.S. mainland than any other 
airline.  In 1998, Alaska carried 13.1 million passengers.  Passenger 
traffic within Alaska and between Alaska and the U.S. mainland accounted 
for 25% of Alaska's 1998 revenue passenger miles, West Coast traffic 
(including Vancouver, Canada) accounted for 67% and the Mexico markets 
8%.  Based on passenger enplanements, Alaska's leading airports are 
Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles and Anchorage.  Based on revenues, its 
leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles and 
Seattle-San Diego.  At December 31, 1998, Alaska's operating fleet 
consisted of 84 jet aircraft.  The majority of Alaska flights, and 
certain Northwest Airlines flights, are dual-designated in airline 
computer reservation systems as Alaska Airlines and Northwest Airlines 
in order to facilitate feed traffic between the two airlines.  Alaska 
Airlines also serves six smaller cities in California, six in 
Washington, two in Oregon and many small communities in Alaska through 
code share marketing agreements with local commuter carriers.  In 
October 1998, Alaska suspended its service to Russia due to economic 
instability in Russia.

Horizon
Horizon, a Washington corporation, began service in 1981 and was 
acquired by Air Group in 1986.  It is the largest regional airline in 
the Pacific Northwest, and serves 33 cities in five states (Washington, 
Oregon, Montana, Idaho, and California) and five cities in Canada.  In 
1998, Horizon carried 4.4 million passengers.  Based on passenger 
enplanements, Horizon's leading airports are Seattle, Portland, Spokane 
and Boise.  Based on revenues, its leading nonstop routes are Seattle-
Portland, Seattle-Spokane and Seattle-Boise.  At December 31, 1998, 
Horizon's operating fleet consisted of 20 jet and 40 turboprop aircraft, 
with the jets providing 58% of the 1998 capacity.  Horizon flights are 
listed under the Alaska Airlines designator code in airline computer 
reservation systems.  Most Horizon flights are also dual-designated in 
these reservation systems as Northwest Airlines and Alaska Airlines.  In 
1998, 25% of Horizon's passengers connected to Alaska and 7% connected 
to Northwest.

Alaska and Horizon integrate their flight schedules to provide the best 
possible service between any two points served by their systems.  Both 
airlines distinguish themselves from competitors by providing a higher 
level of customer service.  The airlines' excellent service in the form 
of advance seat assignments, attention to customer needs, high-quality 
food and beverage service, well-maintained aircraft a first class 
section aboard Alaska aircraft and other amenities is regularly 
recognized by independent studies and surveys of air travelers.  Alaska 
and Horizon offer competitive fares. 

BUSINESS RISKS
The Company's operations and financial results are subject to various 
uncertainties, such as intense competition, volatile fuel prices, a 
largely unionized labor force, the need to finance large capital 
expenditures, government regulation, potential aircraft incidents and 
general economic conditions.

Competition
Competition in the air transportation industry is intense.  Any domestic 
air carrier deemed fit by the DOT is allowed to operate scheduled 
passenger service in the United States.  Together, Alaska and Horizon 
carry 2.5% of all U.S. domestic passenger traffic.  Alaska and Horizon 
compete with one or more domestic or foreign airlines on most of their 
routes.  Some of these competitors are substantially larger than Alaska 
and Horizon, have greater financial resources and have more extensive 
route systems.  Due to its shorthaul markets, Horizon also competes with 
the automobile.

Most major U.S. carriers have developed, independently or in partnership 
with others, large computerized reservation systems (CRS).  Airlines, 
including Alaska, and Horizon, are charged industry-set fees to have 
their flight schedules included in the various CRS displays used by 
travel agents and airlines.  These systems are currently the predominant 
means of distributing airline tickets.  In order to reduce anti-
competitive practices, the DOT regulates the display of all airline 
schedules and fares.

Fuel
Fuel costs were 11.4% of the Company's total operating expenses in 1998.  
Fuel prices, which can be volatile and are largely outside of the 
Company's control, can have a significant impact on the Company's 
operating results.  Currently, a one cent change in the fuel price per 
gallon affects annual fuel costs by approximately $3.5 million.  The 
Company has in the past hedged against its exposure to fluctuations in 
the price of jet fuel, but does not currently do so.  The Company 
evaluates hedging strategies on an ongoing basis.

Unionized Labor Force
Labor costs were 35% of the Company's total operating expenses in 1998.  
Wage rates can have a significant impact on the Company's operating 
results.  At December 31, 1998, labor unions represented 87% of Alaska's 
and 45% of Horizon's employees.  The air transportation industry is 
regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National 
Mediation Board certain regulatory powers with respect to disputes 
between airlines and labor unions.  The Company cannot predict the 
outcome of union contract negotiations nor control the variety of 
actions (e.g. work stoppage or slowdown) unions might take to try to 
influence those negotiations.

Leverage and Future Capital Requirements
The Company, like many airlines, is relatively highly leveraged, which 
increases the volatility of its earnings.  Due to its high fixed costs, 
including aircraft lease commitments, a decrease in revenues results in 
a disproportionately greater decrease in earnings.  In addition, the 
Company has an ongoing need to finance new aircraft deliveries and there 
is no assurance that such financing will be available in sufficient 
amounts or on acceptable terms.  See Item 7 for management's discussion 
of liquidity and capital resources.

Government Regulation; International Routes
Like other airlines, the Company is subject to regulation by the Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA) and the United States Department of 
Transportation (DOT).  The FAA, under its mandate to ensure aviation 
safety, can ground aircraft, suspend or revoke the authority of an air 
carrier or its licensed personnel for failure to comply with Federal 
Aviation Regulations and levy civil penalties.  The DOT has the 
authority to regulate certain airline economic functions including 
financial and statistical reporting, consumer protection, computerized 
reservations systems, essential air transportation and international 
route authority.  The Company is subject to bilateral agreements between 
the United States and the foreign countries to which the Company 
provides service.  There can be no assurance that existing bilateral 
agreements between the United States and the foreign governments will 
continue or that the Company's designation to operate such routes will 
continue.

Risk of Loss and Liability; Weather
The Company is exposed to potential catastrophic losses in the event of 
aircraft accidents or terrorist incidents.  Consistent with industry 
standards, the Company maintains vigorous safety, training and 
maintenance programs, as well as insurance against such losses.  
However, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could cause a 
negative public perception of the Company with adverse financial 
consequences.  Unusually adverse weather can significantly reduce flight 
operations, resulting in lost revenues and added expenses.

OTHER INFORMATION
Frequent Flyer Program
All major airlines have developed frequent flyer programs as a way of 
increasing passenger loyalty.  Alaska's Mileage Plan allows members to 
earn mileage by flying on Alaska, Horizon and other participating 
airlines, and by using the services of non-airline partners, which 
include a credit card partner, telephone companies, hotels and car 
rental agencies.  Alaska is paid by non-airline partners for the miles 
it credits to member accounts.  Alaska has the ability to change the 
Mileage Plan terms, conditions, partners, mileage credits and award 
levels.

Mileage can be redeemed for free or discounted travel and for other 
travel industry awards.  Upon accumulating the necessary mileage, 
members notify Alaska of their award selection  Over 70% of the flight 
awards selected are subject to blackout dates and capacity-controlled 
seating.  Unlike many other airlines, Alaska's miles do not expire.  As 
of the year-end 1997 and 1998, Alaska estimates that 652,000 and 812,000 
round trip flight awards could have been redeemed by Mileage Plan 
members who have mileage credits exceeding the 20,000 mile free round 
trip domestic ticket award threshold.  At December 31, 1998, fewer than 
4% of these flight awards were issued and outstanding.  For the years 
1996, 1997 and 1998, approximately 173,000, 185,000 and 191,000 round 
trip flight awards were redeemed and flown on Alaska and Horizon.  These 
awards represent approximately 4.4% for 1996, 3.2% for 1997, and 3.1% 
for 1998, of the total passenger miles flown for each period.

Alaska maintains a liability for its Mileage Plan obligation that is 
based on its total miles outstanding, less an estimate for miles that 
will never be redeemed.  The net miles outstanding are allocated between 
those credited for travel on Alaska, Horizon or other airline partners 
and those credited for using the services of non-airline partners.  
Miles credited for travel on Alaska, Horizon or other airline partners 
are accrued at Alaska's incremental cost of providing the air travel.  
The incremental cost includes the cost of meals, fuel, reservations and 
insurance.  The incremental cost does not include a contribution to 
overhead, aircraft cost or profit.  A portion of the proceeds received 
from non-airline partners is also deferred.  At December 31, 1997 and 
1998, the total liability for miles outstanding was $22.3 million and 
$28.0 million, respectively.

Employees
Alaska had 9,244 active full-time and part-time employees at December 
31, 1998.  Alaska's union contracts at December 31, 1998 were as follows:	


Horizon had 3,220 active full-time and part-time employees at December 
31, 1998. Horizon's union contracts at December 31, 1998 were as follows:


ITEM 2.	PROPERTIES
Aircraft
The following table describes the aircraft operated and their average 
age at December 31, 1998.

Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of 
Operations and Financial Condition," discusses future orders and options 
for additional aircraft.

Eleven of the 27 aircraft owned by Alaska as of December 31, 1998 are 
subject to liens securing long-term debt.  Alaska's leased B737-200C, 
B737-400 and MD-80 aircraft have lease expiration dates in 1999, between 
2002 and 2016, and between 1999 and 2013, respectively.  Horizon's 
leased de Havilland Dash 8 and Fokker F-28 aircraft have expiration 
dates between 2000 and 2013 and 2000 and 2002, respectively.  Alaska and 
Horizon have the option to extend most of the leases for additional 
periods, or the right to purchase the aircraft at the end of the lease 
term, usually at the then fair market value of the aircraft.  For 
information regarding obligations under capital leases and long-term 
operating leases, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Special noise ordinances or agreements restrict the type of aircraft, 
the timing and the number of flights operated by Alaska and other air 
carriers at four Los Angeles area airports plus San Diego, San Jose, San 
Francisco, Seattle and Vancouver.  At December 31, 1998, all of Alaska's 
aircraft meet the Stage 3 noise requirements under the Airport Noise and 
Capacity Act of 1990.

Ground Facilities and Services
Alaska and Horizon lease ticket counters, gates, cargo and baggage, 
office space and other support areas at the majority of the airports 
they serve.  Alaska also owns terminal buildings at various Alaska 
cities.

Alaska has centralized operations in several buildings located at or 
near Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac) in Seattle, 
Washington.  The owned buildings, including land unless located on 
leased airport property, include: a three-bay hangar facility with 
maintenance shops; a flight operations and training center; an air cargo 
facility; a reservations and office facility; two office buildings; its 
corporate headquarters; and two storage warehouses.  Alaska also leases 
a two-bay hangar/office facility at Sea-Tac.  Alaska's other major 
facilities include: a regional headquarters building, an air cargo 
facility and a leased hangar/office facility in Anchorage; a Phoenix 
reservations center; and a leased two-bay maintenance facility in 
Oakland.

Horizon owns its Seattle corporate headquarters building.  It leases an 
operations, training and aircraft maintenance facility (completed in 
1998) in Portland, and a maintenance facility in Boise.

ITEM 3.	LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
In July 1998, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement in 
principle with the trustee for creditors of the defunct MarkAir, Inc. 
regarding a breach of contract lawsuit.  Subsequently, a formal 
settlement agreement was approved by the bankruptcy court.  The $16.5 
million settlement resulted in an after-tax charge of $10.1 million 
($0.38 per diluted share) in the third quarter of 1998.

ITEM 4.	SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
None.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc., their positions and 
their respective ages (as of March 1, 1999) are as follows:

The above officers have been employed as officers of Air Group or its 
subsidiary, Alaska Airlines, for more than five years except for Keith 
Loveless, who was elected as Corporate Secretary in 1996.  Mr. Loveless 
joined the Alaska Airlines legal department in 1986 and continues to 
hold his current position as associate general counsel of Alaska 
Airlines, a post he has held since 1993.

ITEM 5.	MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED 
	STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

As of December 31, 1998, there were 26,224,005 shares of common stock 
issued and outstanding and 4,687 shareholders of record.  The Company 
also held 2,750,102 treasury shares at a cost of $62.7 million.  The 
Company has not paid dividends on the common stock since 1992.  Air 
Group's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: 
ALK).

The following table shows the trading range of Alaska Air Group common 
stock on the New York Stock Exchange for 1997 and 1998.










ITEM 7.	MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

Industry Conditions
The airline industry is cyclical due to a high correlation between 
demand for air travel and general economic conditions.  Generally 
speaking, economic conditions have been strong during the years covered 
by this discussion.  Because the industry has high fixed costs in 
relation to revenues, a small change in load factors or fare levels has 
a large impact on profits.

For most airlines, labor and fuel account for almost half of operating 
expenses.  The strong economy has increased employee turnover and put 
upward pressure on labor costs.  Fuel prices have been volatile in the 
last three years.  For Alaska Airlines, fuel prices increased 20% in 
1996, decreased 4% in 1997 and decreased another 25% in 1998.

In recent years, airlines have reduced their ticket distribution costs 
by capping travel agent commissions, by decreasing commission rates from 
10% to 8%, by partially eliminating paper tickets and by selling tickets 
directly to passengers via the Internet.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
1998 Compared with 1997  Consolidated net income in 1998 was $124.4 
million, or $4.81 per share (diluted), compared with net income of $72.4 
million, or $3.53 per share in 1997.  The 1998 results include an after-
tax charge of $10.1 million ($0.38 per diluted share) for settlement of 
the MarkAir litigation.  Consolidated operating income was $211.0 
million in 1998 compared with $139.0 million in 1997.  Lower fuel prices 
accounted for $56.9 million of the $72.0 million improvement in 
operating income.  Alaska's annual operating income improved by $59.7 
million, while Horizon's improved by $12.4 million.  A discussion of 
operating results for the two airlines follows.

Alaska Airlines (Refer to Alaska's operating and statistical data in 
Item 6.)  Operating income increased 44.5% to $194.0 million, resulting 
in a 12.4% operating margin as compared to a 9.3% margin in 1997.  
Operating revenue per available seat mile (ASM) decreased 0.6% to 9.32 
cents while operating expenses per ASM decreased 4.1% to 8.17 cents.

The decrease in revenue per ASM was primarily due to a 0.2 point 
decrease in passenger load factor.  The Pacific Northwest-Southern 
California and Pacific Northwest-Northern California markets experienced 
modest increases in load factor, while the Seattle-Anchorage market 
experienced a small decrease.  Alaska's top five markets, which 
represent 79% of its traffic, experienced increases in passenger yield.  
Several smaller markets, including the new Canadian market, had 
decreases in yield.

Freight and mail revenues increased 1.0% primarily due to a 4.7% 
increase in mail pounds and a 0.5% increase in freight pounds carried.  
Freight rates were down due to increased competition in the Seattle-
Anchorage market.  Other-net revenues increased 6.2% due to increased 
revenue from travel partners in Alaska's frequent flyer program.

Wages and benefits increased 10.0% due to a 5.7% increase in the number 
of employees combined with a 4.1% increase in average wages and benefits 
per employee.  Employees were added in all areas to service the 8.9% 
capacity (ASM) increase and the 6.3% increase in passengers carried.  
Average wages and benefits per employee increased primarily due to 
higher pilot wage rates and pension costs that resulted from a new pilot 
contract signed in late 1997.

Profit sharing expense increased 63% due to a large increase in pretax 
income.

Contracted services increased 15%, due to growth in ground handling and 
security charges as a result of more flights to Canada and other cities, 
greater use of temporary employees (particularly in computer systems 
development), higher shipping charges incurred and increased navigation 
fees in Canada and Mexico.

Fuel expense decreased 19%, as the 8% increase in fuel consumption was 
more than offset by a 25% decrease in the price of fuel.

Maintenance expense increased 15%, exceeding the 9% increase in 
capacity, due to a greater number of annual aircraft inspections (C 
checks) performed, and increased engine overhaul expense.

Aircraft rent increased 7%, primarily due to leasing nine new aircraft 
in 1998.

Food and beverage expense increased 5%, in line with the 6% increase in 
passengers carried.

Commission expense decreased 6% (in spite of a 9% increase in passenger 
revenue), primarily because the commission rate paid to travel agents 
decreased from 10% to 8% for sales made since October, 1997.  As a 
percentage of passenger revenue, commission expense decreased 14%, from 
7.8% to 6.7%.  In 1998, 70% of ticket sales were made through travel 
agents, versus 72% in 1997.

Other selling expenses increased 18%, higher than the 9% increase in 
passenger revenues, due to increased advertising to promote the new 
Canada market and other markets.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased 9%, primarily due to 
modifications (made in late 1997) to the B737-200C fleet to meet Stage 3 
noise requirements, a full year of depreciation on two MD-80s purchased 
in 1997 and added depreciation on computers and related equipment.

Landing fees and other rentals increased 12%, higher than the 9% 
increase in capacity, primarily due to rental rate and space increases 
at several airports and higher than average fees in Canada.

Other expense decreased 1%, primarily due to a $2.7 million recovery of 
California property taxes that resulted from settlement of industry 
litigation, lower long distance telephone rates and lower insurance 
rates.  These savings were partly offset by higher expenditures for 
operating supplies, employee hiring, flight crew hotels and legal fees.

Horizon Air  (Refer to Horizon's operating and statistical data in Item 
6.)  During 1998, Horizon completed its transition to a simplified fleet 
(which at year-end 1998 comprised 20 Fokker F-28-4000 jets and 40 de 
Havilland Dash 8-200 turboprop aircraft).  Over the last few years, 
Horizon's route structure changed from a largely hub-and-spoke system to 
more of a point-to-point one, flying people longer distances (260 miles 
on the average in 1998 versus 241 miles in 1997) with fewer connections.  
Due to their higher capacity and longer stage lengths, the jets 
accounted for 58% of the ASMs flown in 1998, versus 21% four years ago.  
These changes have resulted in a more efficient operation, with lower 
unit revenues (down 8.8%) and even lower unit costs (down 11.9%).  As a 
result, operating income increased from $5.8 million to $18.2 million, 
resulting in a 5.2% operating margin as compared to 1.9% in 1997.

Freight and mail revenues decreased 5% primarily due to increased 
competition from overnight trucking.  Other-net revenues increased 86% 
primarily due to increased freight and ground handling services provided 
to other airlines.

Wages and benefits increased 11.3% due to a 9.5% increase in the number 
of employees combined with a 1.6% increase in average wages and benefits 
per employee.  Employees were added in all areas to service the 19% 
increase in passengers carried.

Profit sharing expense increased 150% due to a large increase in pretax 
income.

Contracted services increased 43%, due to increased navigation fees in 
Canada, higher ground handling and security charges and greater use of 
computer and other consultants.

Fuel expense decreased 8%, as the 24% increase in fuel consumption was 
more than offset by a 26% decrease in the price of fuel.

Maintenance expense increased 5%, much less than the 26% increase in 
capacity, due to fewer maintenance requirements for the many new Dash 8-
200 aircraft acquired during 1997-1998, better reliability of F-28 4000 
jets that have replaced the F-28 1000s and other efficiencies of a more 
simplified fleet.

Aircraft rent increased 14%, as most of the new aircraft acquired in 
1998 were leased.

Food and beverage expense increased 32%, in line with the 29% increase 
in revenue passenger miles.

Commission expense decreased 3% (in spite of a 15% increase in passenger 
revenue),  primarily because the commission rate paid to travel agents 
decreased from 10% to 8% for sales made since October, 1997.  As a 
percentage of passenger revenue, commission expense decreased 16%, from 
6.2% to 5.2%.

Other selling expenses increased 19%, in line with the 15% increase in 
passenger revenues.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased 15%, primarily due to 
purchase of more F-28s in 1998 and added depreciation on aircraft spare 
parts and station equipment.

Landing fees and other rentals increased 27%, in line with the 26% 
increase in capacity.

Other expense increased 11%, primarily due to higher expenditures for 
flight crew training, hotels, per diem charges, employee hiring and 
computers.  These increases were partly offset by 
lower insurance charges and property taxes.

Consolidated Nonoperating Income (Expense)  Net nonoperating items 
improved $8.8 million over 1997 due to lower interest expense (due to 
conversion of convertible bonds in 1998 and other debt repayments) and 
higher interest income (due to higher cash balances).  These were partly 
offset by a $16.5 million charge for a settlement of the MarkAir 
litigation.

1997 Compared with 1996  Consolidated net income in 1997 was $72.4 
million, or $3.53 per share (diluted), compared with net income of $38.0 
million, or $2.05 per share in 1996.  Consolidated operating income was 
$139.0 million in 1997 compared with $89.0 million in 1996.  Severe 
winter storms, high fuel prices and matching of competitors' lower fares 
adversely affected the 1996 results.

Alaska Airlines  Operating income increased 49.2% to $134.3 million, 
resulting in a 9.3% operating margin as compared with a 6.9% margin in 
1996.  Operating revenue per ASM increased 7.8% to 9.38 cents while 
operating expenses per ASM increased 5.1% to 8.51 cents.  The increase 
in revenue per ASM was primarily due to a 7.1% increase in system 
passenger yield.  Higher unit costs were largely due to increased labor 
costs.

Horizon Air  Operating income increased from $0.1 million to $5.8 
million, resulting in a 1.9% operating margin as compared to a zero 
margin in 1996.  Operating revenue per ASM increased 1.9% to 21.00 cents 
while operating expenses per available seat mile remained even at 20.60 
cents.

Consolidated Nonoperating Income (Expense)  Nonoperating expense 
decreased $9.3 million to $15.4 million, primarily due to smaller 
average debt balances, lower interest rates on variable interest rate 
debt and more interest capitalized.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
The table below presents the major indicators of financial condition and 
liquidity.

1998 Financial Changes  The Company's cash and marketable securities 
portfolio increased by $94 million during 1998.  Operating activities 
provided $310 million of cash in 1998.  Additional cash was provided by 
the sale and leaseback of nine B737-400 aircraft and 12 Dash 8-200 
aircraft ($402 million) and the return of $33 million of equipment 
deposits.  Cash was used for $613 million of capital expenditures, 
including the purchase of nine new B737-400 aircraft, a previously 
leased B737-400 aircraft, 12 new Dash 8-200 aircraft, flight equipment 
deposits and airframe and engine overhauls and the repayment of debt 
($46 million).

Shareholders' equity increased $314 million due to the conversion of 
$186 million of convertible bonds into common stock, net income of $124 
million and issuance of $7 million of common stock under stock plans.

Financing Activities   During 1998, Alaska sold nine B737-400 aircraft 
and leased them back for 18 years; Horizon sold 12 Dash 8-200 aircraft 
and leased them back for 15 years.

In February 1998, substantially all of the 6-7/8% convertible 
subordinated debentures were converted into 1.6 million shares of common 
stock.  In June 1998, all of the 6-1/2% convertible subordinated 
debentures were converted into 6.1 million shares of common stock.

Commitments  During 1998, Alaska's lease commitments increased 
approximately $414 million due to the sale and leaseback of nine B737-
400 aircraft.  In addition, Alaska ordered eight Boeing 737 aircraft 
with a cost of approximately $256 million.  Horizon's lease commitments 
increased approximately $162 million due to the acquisition of 12 new 
Dash 8-200 aircraft.  In addition, Horizon ordered 25 Canadair regional 
jets with a cost of approximately $580 million.  At December 31, 1998, 
the Company had firm orders for 53 aircraft with a total cost of 
approximately $1.4 billion as set forth below.  In addition, Alaska has 
options to acquire 26 more B737s and Horizon has options to acquire five 
CRJ 700s.  Alaska and Horizon expect to finance the new planes with 
either leases, long-term debt or internally generated cash.	

The Company accrues the costs associated with returning leased aircraft 
over the lease period.  As leased aircraft are retired, the costs are 
charged against the established reserve.  At December 31, 1998, $49 
million was reserved for leased aircraft returns. 

Deferred Taxes  At December 31, 1998, net deferred tax liabilities were 
$91 million, which includes $114 million of net temporary differences 
offset by $23 million of Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) credits.  The 
Company believes that all of its deferred tax assets, including its AMT 
credits, will be realized through profitable operations.

Year 2000 Computer Issue  The Company uses a significant number of 
computer software programs and embedded operating systems that were not 
originally designed to process dates beyond 1999.  The Company has 
implemented a project to ensure that the Company's systems will function 
properly in the year 2000 and thereafter.  The Company expects to 
remediate most of its major systems by early 1999 and substantially to 
complete the project by the end of June 1999.  The Company believes 
that, with modifications to its existing software and systems and/or 
conversions to new software, the year 2000 issue will not pose 
significant operational problems.  Most of the Company's information 
technology projects in the last several years have made the affected 
systems year 2000 compliant.  The direct costs of projects solely 
intended to correct year 2000 problems are currently estimated at less 
than $2 million.  The Company does not track certain costs attributable 
to year 2000, such as salaries of information technology staff not 
dedicated entirely to the project.  Additional systems currently under 
review may require further resources.  The Company does not expect any 
cost increases to have a material effect on its results of operations.

The Company is also in contact with its significant suppliers and 
vendors with which its systems interface and exchange data or upon which 
its business depends.  These efforts are designed to minimize the extent 
to which its business will be vulnerable to their failure to remediate 
their own year 2000 issues.  The Company's business is also dependent 
upon certain governmental organizations or entities such as the Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA) that provide essential aviation industry 
infrastructure.  The Company is working with the Airline Transport 
Association (ATA) and the International Airline Transport Association 
(IATA) to monitor the progress of FAA and airports in making their 
systems year 2000 compliant.  In addition, the Company is independently 
working with certain rural Alaska airports not within ATA's purview.  
There can be no assurance that such third parties on which the Company's 
business relies will successfully remediate their systems on a timely 
basis.  The Company's business, financial condition or results of 
operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure of its 
systems or those operated by other parties to operate properly beyond 
1999.  Areas that could be adversely affected include flight operations, 
maintenance, planning, reservations, sales, accounting and the frequent 
flyer program.  The Company already has in place certain disaster 
contingency plans anticipating the potential loss of essential services 
such as electricity and financial accounting systems.  The Company will 
leverage its year 2000 contingency planning off these existing plans.  
In addition, the Company is developing and executing additional 
contingency plans designed to allow continued operation in the event of 
failure of key third party systems or products.  The foregoing Year 2000 
Computer Issue comments include forward-looking statements regarding the 
performance of the Company.  Actual results may differ materially from 
these projections.  Factors that could cause results to differ include 
the availability of adequate resources to complete the Company's year 
2000 plan, the ability to identify and remediate noncompliant systems, 
and the success of third parties in remediating their year 2000 issues.

New Accounting Standards  During June 1998, the Financial Accounting 
Standards Board issued FAS 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments 
and Hedging Activities  The new standard requires companies to record 
derivatives on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities, measured at 
fair value.  Gains or losses resulting from changes in the values of 
those derivatives would be accounted for depending on the use of the 
derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting.  Due to the 
Company's minimal use of derivatives, the new standard is expected to 
have no material impact on its financial position or results of 
operations.  FAS 133 will be effective for the Company's fiscal year 
beginning January 1, 2000.

1997 Financial Changes  The Company's cash and marketable securities 
portfolio increased by $111 million during 1997.  Operating activities 
provided $205 million of cash in 1997.  Additional cash was provided by 
the sale and leaseback of four B737-400 aircraft and 13 Dash 8-200 
aircraft ($247 million), issuance of common stock ($129 million) and 
issuance of long-term debt ($28 million).  Cash was used for $439 
million of capital expenditures including the purchase of two new MD-83 
aircraft, three new B737-400 aircraft, a previously leased B737-400 
aircraft, 13 new Dash 8-200 aircraft, flight equipment deposits and 
airframe and engine overhauls, net repayment of short-term borrowings 
($47 million) and the repayment of debt ($26 million).

1996 Financial Changes  The Company's cash and marketable securities 
portfolio decreased by $33 million during 1996.  Operating activities 
provided $223 million of cash in 1996.  Additional cash was provided by 
the sale and leaseback of three B737-400 aircraft ($86 million), the 
sale of three MD-80 aircraft ($52 million) and proceeds received from 
the issuance of common stock ($21 million).  Cash was used for the 
purchase of two new MD-83 aircraft, two used B737-400 aircraft, two 
previously leased B737-200Cs, airframe and engine overhauls and other 
capital expenditures ($209 million), and aircraft purchase deposits ($61 
million).  Cash was also used to repay net short-term borrowings ($19 
million), and $134 million of long-term debt (including $100 million 
repaid early).  During 1996, Alaska replaced its $75 million credit 
facility with a $125 million credit facility with substantially the same 
terms and conditions.

Effect of Inflation  Inflation and specific price changes do not have a 
significant effect on the Company's operating revenues, operating 
expenses and operating income, because such revenues and expenses 
generally reflect current price levels.

ITEM 8.	CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
See Item 14.


The total of the amounts shown as quarterly earnings per share (EPS) may 
differ from the amounts shown on the Consolidated Statement of Income 
because the annual computation is made separately and is based upon 
average number of shares (and equivalent shares for diluted EPS) 
outstanding for the year.

ITEM 9.	DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.

PART III
ITEM 10.	DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
See "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by reference from the 
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group's Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders to be held on May 18, 1999.  See "Executive Officers of the 
Registrant" in Part I following Item 4 for information relating to 
executive officers.

ITEM 11.	EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
See "Executive Compensation," incorporated herein by reference from the 
definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group's Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders to be held on May 18, 1999.  

ITEM 12.	SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
MANAGEMENT
See "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," 
incorporated herein by reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for 
Air Group's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 18, 1999.  

ITEM 13.	CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
See "Transactions with Management and Others," incorporated herein by 
reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for Air Group's Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 18, 1999.
PART IV
ITEM 14.	EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND 
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(a)  Consolidated Financial Statements:                              	Page(s)
Selected Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information (Unaudited)	         17
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1997 and 1998	            20-21
Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
   December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998	                                       22
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
   December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998	                                       23
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended
   December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998	                                       24
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements	                             25-32
Report of Independent Public Accountants	                                  33

Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts, for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998 			      			34

See Exhibit Index on page 35.

(b)	A report on Form 8-K announcing orders for 25 Canadair Regional 
Jets Series 700 aircraft was filed on December 22, 1998

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ALASKA AIR GROUP, INC.

By:	 /s/ John F. Kelly							Date: February 10, 1999
	John F. Kelly, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on February 
10, 1999 on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

	 /s/ John F. Kelly			Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director
		John F. Kelly		

	 /s/ Harry G. Lehr			Senior Vice President/Finance 
		Harry G. Lehr     		(Principal Financial Officer)
				 
	 /s/ Bradley D. Tilden		Controller 
		Bradley D. Tilden	    	(Principal Accounting Officer)
				 
	 /s/ Ronald F. Cosgrave		Director
		Ronald F. Cosgrave

	 /s/ Mary Jane Fate		Director
		Mary Jane Fate

	 /s/ Bruce R. Kennedy		Director
		Bruce R. Kennedy

	 /s/ R. Marc Langland		Director
		R. Marc Langland

	 /s/ Byron I. Mallott		Director
		Byron I. Mallott

	 /s/ Robert L. Parker, Jr.		Director
		Robert L. Parker, Jr.

	 /s/ John V. Rindlaub		Director
		John V. Rindlaub

	 /s/ Patricia Q. Stonesifer		Director
		Patricia Q. Stonesifer

	 /s/ Richard A. Wien		Director
		Richard A. Wien












NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Alaska Air Group, Inc.
December 31, 1998

Note 1.	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Alaska Air 
Group, Inc. (Company or Air Group) and its subsidiaries, the principal 
subsidiaries being Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air 
Industries, Inc. (Horizon).  All significant intercompany transactions 
are eliminated.  Preparation of financial statements requires the use of 
management's estimates.  Actual results could differ from those 
estimates.  Certain reclassifications have been made in prior years' 
financial statements to conform to the 1998 presentation.

Alaska and Horizon operate as airlines.  However, their business plans, 
competition and economic risks differ substantially.  Alaska is a major 
airline serving Alaska; Vancouver, Canada; the U.S. West Coast and 
Mexico.  It operates an all jet fleet and its average passenger trip is 
864 miles.  Horizon is a regional airline serving the Pacific Northwest, 
Northern California and Western Canada.  It operates both jet and 
turboprop aircraft, and its average passenger trip is 260 miles.  
Substantially all of Alaska's and Horizon's sales occur in the United 
States.  See Note 11 for operating segment information.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. They are carried at cost, which 
approximates market.  The Company reduces its cash balance when checks 
are disbursed.  Due to the time delay in checks clearing the banks, the 
Company normally maintains a negative cash balance on its books which is 
reported as a current liability.  The amount of the negative cash 
balance was $10.1 million and $18.2 million at December 31, 1997 and 
1998, respectively.

Inventories and Supplies
Expendable and repairable aircraft parts, as well as other materials and 
supplies, are stated at average cost.  An allowance for obsolescence is 
accrued on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the 
aircraft.  Inventories related to the retired B727 fleet and other 
surplus items are carried at their net realizable value.  The allowance 
at December 31, 1997 and 1998 for all inventories was $18.0 million and 
$20.2 million, respectively.

Property, Equipment and Depreciation
Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated using the 
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which are as 
follows:
Aircraft and other
	flight equipment	         8-20 years
Buildings                 	10-30 years
Capitalized leases and 
	leasehold improvements   	Term of lease
Other equipment	           3-15 years

Assets and related obligations for items financed under capital leases 
are initially recorded at an amount equal to the present value of the 
future minimum lease payments.  The cost of major airframe overhauls, 
engine overhauls, and other modifications which extend the life or 
improve the usefulness of aircraft are capitalized and amortized over 
their estimated period of use.  Other repair and maintenance costs are 
expensed when incurred.  The Company periodically reviews long-lived 
assets for impairment.

Capitalized Interest
Interest is capitalized on flight equipment purchase deposits and ground 
facilities progress payments as a cost of the related asset and is 
depreciated over the estimated useful life of the asset.

Intangible Assets-Subsidiaries
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets 
acquired is recorded as an intangible asset and is amortized over 40 
years.  Accumulated amortization at December 31, 1997 and 1998 was $23.1 
million and $25.2 million, respectively.

Deferred Income
Deferred income results from the sale and leaseback of aircraft, the 
receipt of manufacturer or vendor credits, and from the sale of foreign 
tax benefits.  This income is recognized over the term of the applicable 
agreements.

Frequent Flyer Awards
Alaska operates a frequent flyer award program that provides travel 
awards to members based on accumulated mileage.  The estimated 
incremental cost of providing free travel is recognized as an expense 
and accrued as a liability as miles are accumulated.  Alaska also defers 
recognition of income on a portion of the payments it receives from 
travel partners associated with its frequent flyer program.  The 
frequent flyer award liability is relieved as travel awards are issued.

Passenger Revenues
Passenger revenues are considered earned at the time service is 
provided.  Tickets sold but not yet used are reported as air traffic 
liability. 

Contracted Services
Contracted services includes the expenses for aircraft ground handling, 
security, temporary employees and other similar services.



Other Selling Expenses
Other selling expenses includes credit card commissions, computerized 
reservations systems (CRS) charges, advertising and promotional costs.  
The costs of advertising are expensed the first time the advertising 
takes place.  Advertising expense was $15.6 million, $11.0 million, and 
$17.9 million, respectively, in 1996, 1997 and 1998.

Nonoperating Expense
During 1998, the Company settled a breach of contract lawsuit with 
MarkAir, Inc., which resulted in a $16.5 million charge to other 
nonoperating expense.

Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 109, which requires the recognition of deferred 
tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of 
events that have been recognized in the Company's financial statements 
or tax returns.

Stock Options
The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in 
accounting for stock options.  See Note 6 for more information.

Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts, generally 
with maturities of less than one month, to manage risk associated with 
net foreign currency transactions.  Resulting gains and losses are 
recognized currently in other operating expense.  The Company 
periodically enters into interest rate swap agreements to hedge interest 
rate risk.  The differential to be paid or received from these 
agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is recognized 
currently in the income statement.  The Company periodically enters into 
hedge agreements to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the price of 
jet fuel.  A gain or loss is recorded if the fuel index average exceeds 
the ceiling price or falls below the floor price.  There were no 
interest rate swaps or fuel hedges entered into in 1998.

Note 2.	Marketable Securities
Marketable securities are investments that are readily convertible to 
cash and have original maturities that exceed three months.  They are 
classified as available for sale and consisted of the following at 
December 31 (in millions):
	                              1997    	1998
Cost:
U.S. government securities  		$75.1	  $214.1
Asset backed obligations     		35.0  	  31.7
Other corporate obligations		    --  	  31.4
                           		$110.1	  $277.2
Fair value:
U.S. government securities  		$75.2	  $214.9
Asset backed obligations		     35.0    	31.8
Other corporate obligations	    	--	    31.3
                           		$110.2  	$278.0
There were no material unrealized holding gains or losses at December 
31, 1997 or 1998.

Of the marketable securities on hand at December 31, 1998, 49% will 
mature during 1999 and the remainder will mature during 2000.  Based on 
specific identification of securities sold, the following occurred in 
1997 and 1998 (in millions): 
                     	1997    	1998
Proceeds from sales		$385.9	 $156.3
Gross realized gains	  	0.1    	0.2
Gross realized losses		 0.1     	--
Realized gains and losses are reported as a component of interest 
income.

Note 3.	Other Assets
Other assets consisted of the following at December 31 (in millions):
                        	 1997	  1998
Restricted deposits		    $67.5	 $69.1
Deferred costs and other	 20.8	  15.1
		                       $88.3	 $84.2
Deferred costs are amortized over the term of the related lease or 
contract.

Note 4.	Long-term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
At December 31, 1997 and 1998, long-term debt and capital lease 
obligations were as follows (in millions):
                                   	1997   	1998
8.5%* fixed rate notes payable
	due through 2001	                $103.5	  $90.3
6.0%* variable rate notes payable
	due through 2009	                 114.9   	85.2
6-1/2% convertible senior
	debentures due 2005	              132.1     	--
6-7/8% convertible subordinated
	debentures due 2004-2014	          54.0	     --
Long-term debt	                    404.5  	175.5
Capital lease obligations	          25.6	   23.2
Less current portion              	(28.7) 	(27.2)
                                 	$401.4 	$171.5
 
* weighted average for 1998

At December 31, 1998, borrowings of $175.5 million are secured by flight 
equipment and real property.  During 1998, substantially all of the 
convertible subordinated debentures were converted into 7.747 million 
shares of common stock.

At December 31, 1998, Alaska had a $115 million credit facility with 
commercial banks.  Advances under this facility may be for up to a 
maximum maturity of four years.  Borrowings may be used for aircraft 
acquisitions or other corporate purposes, and they bear interest at a 
rate that varies based on LIBOR.  At December 31, 1998, no borrowings 
were outstanding under this credit facility.

Certain Alaska loan agreements contain provisions that require 
maintenance of specific levels of net worth, leverage and fixed charge 
coverage, and limit investments, lease obligations, sales of assets and 
additional indebtedness.  At December 31, 1998, the Company was in 
compliance with all loan provisions, and under the most restrictive loan 
provisions, Alaska had $175 million of net worth above the minimum.

At December 31, 1998, long-term debt principal payments for the next 
five years were (in millions):
1999		$24.5
2000		$55.5
2001		$45.4
2002		$12.1
2003		$12.3

Note 5.	Commitments
Lease Commitments
Lease contracts for 111 aircraft have remaining lease terms of one to 18 
years.  The majority of airport and terminal facilities are also leased.  
Total rent expense was $214.7 million, $218.7 million and $241.6 
million, in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.  Future minimum lease 
payments under long-term operating leases and capital leases as of 
December 31, 1998 are shown below (in millions):
                          		Operating Leases   	Capital
                     		  Aircraft 	Facilities	   Leases
1999                   	$   192.9      	$24.8    	$ 4.1
2000	                       180.2       	22.8      	4.1
2001	                       165.6	       16.5      	4.1
2002	                       163.0       	10.5	      4.1
2003	                       143.5        	9.7      	4.1
Thereafter	               1,087.1	      131.0      	9.0
Total lease payments	   	$1,932.3     	$215.3	     29.5
Less amount representing interest		                (6.3)
Present value of capital lease payments	          $23.2

Aircraft Commitments
The Company has firm orders for 25 Boeing 737 series aircraft to be 
delivered between 1999 and 2002, three Dash 8-200s during 1999, and 25 
Canadair RJ 700 jets between 2002 and 2005.  The total amount of these 
commitments is approximately $1.4 billion.  As of December 31, 1998, 
deposits related to the future equipment deliveries were $160 million.  
In addition to the ordered aircraft, the Company holds purchase options 
on 26 Boeing 737s and five CRJ 700s.

Note 6.	Stock Plans
Air Group has three stock option plans, which provide for the purchase 
of Air Group common stock at a stipulated price on the date of grant by 
certain officers and key employees of Air Group and its subsidiaries. 
Under the 1988 Plan, options for 1,730,700 shares have been granted.  
Under the 1996 and 1997 Plans, options for 836,600 shares have been 
granted and, at December 31, 1998, 90,400 shares were available for 
grant.  Under all plans, the incentive and nonqualified stock options 
granted have terms of up to approximately ten years.  Grantees are 25% 
vested after one year, 50% after two years, 75% after three years and 
100% after four years.

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant 
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following 
assumptions used for grants in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively: 
dividend yield of 0%, 0% and 0%; volatility of 36%, 34% and 35%; risk-
free interest rates of 6.33%, 5.69% and 5.67%; and expected lives of 5, 
5 and 5 years.  Using these assumptions, the weighted average fair value 
of options granted was $9.58, $14.04 and $19.33 in 1996, 1997 and 1998, 
respectively.

Air Group follows APB Opinion 25 and related Interpretations in 
accounting for stock options.  Accordingly, no compensation cost has 
been recognized for these plans.  Had compensation cost for the 
Company's stock options been determined in accordance with Financial 
Accounting Standard 123, net income and earnings per share (EPS) would 
have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below.

                         	1996	  1997 	  1998
Net income (in millions):
 As reported	            $38.0 	$72.4	 $124.4
 Pro forma	               37.4  	71.4	  122.2
Basic EPS:
 As reported            	$2.67 	$4.90  	$5.32
 Pro forma	               2.63  	4.83   	5.23
Diluted EPS:
 As reported            	$2.05 	$3.53  	$4.81
 Pro forma	               2.03  	3.48   	4.73

Changes in the number of shares subject to option, with their weighted 
average exercise prices, are summarized below:
                              	Shares   	Price
Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1995		1,161,588  	$16.56
Granted	                     	379,900   	22.51
Exercised		                  (504,138)  	17.05
Canceled		                    (45,525)  	17.13
Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1996	  	991,825   	18.57
Granted	                     	245,800   	35.25
Exercised		                  (349,575)  	17.36
Canceled		                     (8,125)	  17.03
Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1997	  	879,925	   23.72
Granted		                     324,900   	47.45
Exercised		                  (159,475)  	17.88
Canceled		                     (5,200)  	36.88
Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1998		1,040,150	  $31.96
Exercisable at year-end
December 31, 1996	           	243,675  	$16.70
December 31, 1997		           161,775   	19.08
December 31, 1998		           253,350   	22.92

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable 
at December 31, 1998 with their weighted average remaining contractual 
lives:
Range of           	Remaining		
Exercise prices	   Life (years)  	Shares  	 Price
Outstanding:
$15.00 to $17.50	         6.4	  	191,275	  $15.57
$21.50 to $24.00         	7.6  		283,175   	22.49
$35.25	                   9.0  		241,800   	35.25
$47.00 to $57.31	         9.3	  	323,900   	47.45
$15.00 to $57.31	         8.3		1,040,150	  $31.96
Exercisable:
$15.00 to $17.50		               	98,125	  $15.75
$21.50 to $24.00			               94,775   	22.49
$35.25			                         60,450   	35.25
$47.00 to $57.31			                   --	   47.45
$15.00 to $57.31			              253,350	  $22.92



Note 7.	Employee Benefit Plans
Pension Plans
Four defined benefit and five defined contribution retirement plans 
cover various employee groups of Alaska and Horizon.  

The defined benefit plans provide benefits based on an employee's term 
of service and average compensation for a specified period of time 
before retirement.  Pension plans are funded as required by the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  The defined benefit 
plan assets are primarily common stocks and fixed income securities.  
The following table sets forth the status of the plans for 1997 and 1998 
(in millions):
                             	1997	     1998
Projected benefit obligation
Beginning of year	          $230.7   	$307.4
Service cost	                 17.3     	22.5
Interest cost	                17.3     	21.9
Amendments	                   57.7	       --
Change in assumptions	        (8.7)    	27.1
Actuarial loss (gain)	         1.7	     (0.4)
Benefits paid	                (8.6)    	(6.7)
End of year	                $307.4   	$371.8
Plan assets at fair value
Beginning of year          	$223.7   	$289.2
Actual return on
 plan assets                 	47.6     	54.4
Employer contributions	       26.5     	36.1
Benefits paid	                (8.6)    	(6.7)
End of year	                $289.2   	$373.0

Funded status	             		(18.2)    		1.2
Unrecognized loss (gain)		    (0.8)    		7.2
Unrecognized 
transition asset	           		(0.5)		   (0.3)
Unrecognized 
prior service cost         			60.1		    49.4
Prepaid pension cost		      $ 40.6  		$ 57.5
 
Weighted average assumptions
  as of December 31
Discount rate               	7.25%	    6.75%
Expected return on
 plan assets	                10.0%    	10.0%
Rate of compensation
 increase	                    3.2%     	5.5%


Net pension expense for the defined benefit plans included the following 
components for 1996, 1997 and 1998 (in millions):	

                       	1996    	1997    	1998
Service cost	         $	15.9  	$	17.3  	$	22.4
Interest cost	          15.4    	17.3    	21.9
Expected return 
on assets	             (18.5)	  (22.1)  	(28.7)
Amortization of
 prior service cost      0.3     	0.2     	3.8
Recognized 
actuarial loss	          1.4	     1.0	      --
Amortization of
 transition asset      	(0.3)   	(0.3)   	(0.2)

Net pension expense  	$	14.2	  $	13.4	  $	19.2
 
Alaska and Horizon also maintain an unfunded, noncontributory benefit 
plan for certain elected officers.  The $21 million unfunded accrued 
pension cost for this plan was accrued as of December 31, 1998.

The defined contribution plans are deferred compensation plans under 
section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Some of these plans 
require Company matching contributions based on a percentage of 
participants' contributions.  One plan has an Employee Stock Ownership 
Plan (ESOP) feature.  The ESOP owns Air Group common shares which are 
held in trust for eligible employees.  The Company has recorded deferred 
compensation to reflect the value of the shares not yet allocated to 
eligible employees' accounts.  As these shares are allocated to 
employees, compensation expense is recorded and deferred compensation is 
reduced.  Total expense for the defined contribution plans was $10.1 
million, $11.7 million and $11.6 million, respectively, in 1996, 1997 
and 1998.

Profit Sharing Plans
Alaska and Horizon have employee profit sharing plans.  Profit sharing 
expense for 1996, 1997 and 1998 was $0.9 million, $13.5 million and $23.2 
million, respectively.


Other Postretirement Benefits
The Company allows retirees to continue their medical, dental and vision 
benefits by paying all or a portion of the active employee plan premium 
until eligible for Medicare, currently age 65.  This results in a 
subsidy to retirees because the premiums received by the Company are 
less than the actual cost of the retirees' claims.  The accumulated 
postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) for this subsidy at December 
31, 1997 and 1998 was $15.7 million and $20.1 million, respectively.  
The APBO is unfunded and is included with other liabilities on the 
Balance Sheet.  Annual expense related to this subsidy is not considered 
material to disclose.

Note 8.	Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the timing of 
recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial reporting 
purposes.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise the following at 
December 31 (in millions):
                            	1997    	1998
Excess of tax over book
  depreciation	            $161.8	  $162.9
Other - net	                  1.3     	3.7
Gross deferred 
tax liabilities	            163.1   	166.6
Loss carryforward	           (0.5)   	(0.1)
Alternative minimum tax	    (50.1)  	(22.7)
Capital leases	              (4.5)   	(2.6)
Ticket pricing adjustments  	(1.2)   	(2.2)
Frequent flyer program	      (8.5)  	(10.5)
Employee benefits	           (7.8)   	(5.7)
Aircraft return provisions 	(16.0)  	(16.4)
Deferred gains	              (4.8)   	(8.4)
Capitalized interest	        (1.4)   	(2.2)
Inventory obsolescence	      (6.5)   	(4.8)
Gross deferred 
tax assets	                (101.3)  	(75.6)
Net deferred 
tax liabilities           	$ 61.8  	$ 91.0
 
Current deferred 
tax asset                	 $(10.5) 	$ (8.2)
Noncurrent deferred 
tax liability               	72.3    	99.2
Net deferred 
tax liabilities           	$ 61.8  	$ 91.0


After consideration of temporary differences, taxable income for 1998 
was approximately $206 million.

The components of income tax expense were as follows (in millions):
                     		1996   	1997   	1998
Current tax expense:
	Federal	             $17.5  	$26.4  	$43.0
	State                 	0.9    	1.9    	7.8
Total current	         18.4   	28.3   	50.8
Deferred tax expense:
	Federal	               6.7   	18.5	   27.8
	State	                 1.2    	4.4    	1.4
Total deferred	         7.9   	22.9   	29.2
Total tax expense	    $26.3  	$51.2  	$80.0
 
Income tax expense reconciles to the amount computed by applying the 
U.S. federal rate of 35% to income before taxes as follows (in millions):	
                         	1996   	1997   	1998
Income before 
  income tax	            $64.3 	$123.6 	$204.4
Expected tax expense    	$22.5 	 $43.3  	$71.5
Nondeductible expenses 	   2.8	    2.9	    3.0
State income tax          	1.0    	4.1    	6.2
Other - net	                --    	0.9	   (0.7)
Actual tax expense	      $26.3  	$51.2  	$80.0
 
Effective tax rate      	40.9%	  41.4%  	39.1%

Note 9.	Earnings per Share
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the average number of 
common shares outstanding.  Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing net 
income plus the after-tax interest expense on convertible debt by the 
average common shares outstanding plus additional common shares that 
would have been outstanding if conversion of the convertible debt and 
exercise of in-the-money stock options is assumed.  


EPS calculations were as follows (in millions except per share amounts):
	                            1996    	1997    	1998
Net income	                 $38.0	   $72.4  	$124.4
Avg. shares outstanding	   14.241	  14.785  	23.388
Basic earnings per share	   $2.67	   $4.90	   $5.32
Net income	                 $38.0   	$72.4  	$124.4
After-tax interest on:
 6-1/2% debentures           	5.3     	5.3     	2.2
 6-7/8% debentures	           2.3     	2.3     	0.3
 7-3/4% debentures	           0.5	      --      	--
Diluted EPS income         	$46.1   	$80.0  	$126.9
Avg. shares outstanding   	14.241  	14.785  	23.388
Assumed conversion of:
 6-1/2% debentures	         6.151   	6.151   	2.543
 6-7/8% debentures	         1.608   	1.608   	0.255
 7-3/4% debentures	         0.361      	--      	--
Assumed exercise of
 stock options	             0.097   	0.145   	0.181
Diluted EPS shares        	22.458  	22.689	  26.367
Diluted earnings per share 	$2.05   	$3.53   	$4.81

Note 10.	 Financial Instruments
The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments were as 
follows (in millions):

December 31, 1997
                       	  Carrying	    Fair
                         	  Amount   	Value
Cash and cash equivalents	  $102.6	  $102.6
Marketable securities	       110.1   	110.2
Restricted deposits          	67.5    	67.5
Long-term debt	              404.5   	521.7

			December 31, 1998
                         	Carrying    	Fair
                           	Amount   	Value
Cash and cash equivalents	   $29.4   	$29.4
Marketable securities	       277.2   	278.0
Restricted deposits	          69.1    	69.1
Long-term debt	              175.5    175.5

The fair value of cash equivalents approximates carrying value due to 
the short maturity of these instruments.  The fair value of marketable 
securities is based on quoted market prices.  The fair value of 
restricted deposits approximates the carrying amount.  The fair value of 
publicly traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices, and the 
fair value of other debt approximates carrying value.

Note 11.	Operating Segment Information
Financial information for Alaska and Horizon follows (in millions):
                                	1996      	1997      	1998
Operating revenues:
	Alaska	                     $1,297.3  	$1,447.9	  $1,566.3
	Horizon	                       301.3     	303.6	     347.8
	Elimination of intercompany
	 revenues                      	(6.4)    	(12.1)    	(16.4)
	Consolidated	                1,592.2	   1,739.4   	1,897.7
Depreciation and amortization expense:
		Alaska		                       55.9      	56.9      	61.9
		Horizon	                      	11.4      	11.2      	12.9
Interest income:
		Alaska		                       11.5	      12.2      	23.2
		Horizon		                       0.3       	0.1        	--
Interest expense:
		Alaska		                       29.7	      25.0      	17.4
		Horizon		                       0.9       	1.8       	1.0
Pretax income:
	Alaska	                        	74.5     	127.4     	190.5
	Horizon	                         0.3       	6.3      	18.9
	Air Group	                     (10.5)	    (10.1)     	(5.0)
	Consolidated	                   64.3     	123.6     	204.4
Capital expenditures:
		Alaska	                      	229.9     	293.0     	420.1
		Horizon		                      39.9	     145.9	     193.4
Total assets at end of period:
	Alaska		                     1,247.9	   1,370.7   	1,548.8
	Horizon	                       173.3     	158.0     	187.1
	Air Group	                     524.3     	668.0	     790.5
	Elimination of intercompany
	 accounts	                    (634.1)	   (663.6)	   (794.6)
	Consolidated	                1,311.4   	1,533.1   	1,731.8


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Alaska Air Group, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Alaska 
Air Group, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 
31, 1998  and 1997, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the 
period ended December 31, 1998.  These financial statements are the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements 
are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a 
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting 
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe 
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present 
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Alaska Air 
Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998  and 1997, and the 
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic 
financial statements taken as a whole.  The schedule listed in Item 
14(a) is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission's rules and is not a required part of the basic 
financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to the auditing 
procedures applied in our audits of the basic financial statements and, 
in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to 
the basic financial statements taken as a whole.



												 /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
												ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Seattle, Washington
January 25, 1999



EXHIBIT INDEX

Certain of the following exhibits have heretofore been filed with the 
Commission and are incorporated herein by reference from the document 
described in parenthesis.  Certain others are filed herewith.

	3.(i)	Articles of Incorporation of Alaska Air Group, Inc. as amended through 
May 21, 1996
	3.(ii)	Bylaws of Alaska Air Group, Inc., as amended through Feb. 8, 1996 
(Exhibit 3.(ii) to 1995 10-K)
	4.1	Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated 8/7/96 between Alaska Air 
Group, Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent 
(Exhibit 2.1 to Form 8A-A filed 8/8/96)
	10.1	Lease Agreement dated Feb. 1, 1979 between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and 
the Alaska Industrial Development Authority (AIDA) (Exhibit 10-15 to 
Registration Statement No. 2-70742)
	10.2	Lease Agreement dated April 1, 1978 between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and 
the AIDA (Exhibit 10-16 to Registration Statement No. 2-70742)
	10.3	Management Incentive Plan (1992 Proxy Statement)
	10.4	Loan Agreement dated as of December 1, 1984, between Alaska Airlines, 
Inc. and the Industrial Development Corporation of the Port of Seattle 
(Exhibit 10-38 to 1984 10-K)
	10.5	Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended through May 
19, 1992 (Registration Statement No. 33-52242)
	#10.6	Lease Agreement dated January 22, 1990 between International Lease 
Finance Corporation and Alaska Airlines, Inc. for the lease of a B737-
400 aircraft, summaries of 19 substantially identical lease agreements 
and Letter Agreement #1 dated January 22, 1990 (Exhibit 10-14 to 1990 
10-K)
	#10.7	Agreement dated September 18, 1996 between Alaska Airlines, Inc. and 
Boeing for the purchase of 12 Boeing 737-400 aircraft (Exhibit 10.1 to 
Third Quarter 1996 10-Q)
	#10.8	Agreement dated August 28, 1996 between Horizon Air Industries, Inc. 
and Bombardier for the purchase of 25 de Havilland Dash 8-200 aircraft 
(Exhibit 10.2 to Third Quarter 1996 10-Q)
	10.9	Supplemental retirement plan arrangement between Horizon Air 
Industries, Inc. and George D. Bagley (1996 Proxy Statement)
	10.10	Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1996 Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan 
(Registration Statement 333-09547)
	10.11	Alaska Air Group, Inc. Non Employee Director Stock Plan (Registration 
Statement 333-33727)
	10.12	Alaska Air Group, Inc. Profit Sharing Stock Purchase Plan 
(Registration Statement 333-39889)
	10.13	Alaska Air Group, Inc. 1997 Non Officer Long-Term Incentive Equity 
Plan (Registration Statement 333-39899)
	10.14	Alaska Air Group, Inc. Supplementary Retirement Plan for Elected 
Officers (Exhibit 10.15 to 1997 10-K)
	10.15	1995 Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan (Exhibit 10.16 to 
1997 10-K)
	*#10.16	Agreement dated December 21, 1998 between Horizon Air Industries, Inc. 
and Bombardier for the purchase of 25 Canadair regional jets series 
700 aircraft
	*12	Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
	21	Subsidiaries of the Registrant (Exhibit 22-01 to 1987 10-K)
	*23	Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP
	*27	Financial Data Schedule
* Filed herewith.
# Confidential treatment was granted as to a portion of this document.


