
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
                                   Form 10-K
 
            [X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
 
                                       OR
 
          [_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the transition period from      to
 
                         Commission File Number 1-5975
 
                                  HUMANA INC.
             (Exact Name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 

 
        Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 502-580-1000
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
                                      None
 
   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  [X] No [_]
 
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of the Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in the Registrant's definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
   The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of March 1, 1999 was $2,817,113,416 calculated using the average
price on such date of $17.75. The number of shares outstanding of the
Registrant's Common Stock as of March 1, 1999 was 167,575,889.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
   Portions of Part II and Part IV incorporate herein by reference the
Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders; Part III incorporates herein
by reference portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held
May 6, 1999.
 
   The Exhibit Index begins on page 20.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
General
 
   Humana Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in 1961. Its principal
executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky
40202 and its telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000. As used
herein, the terms "the Company" or "Humana" include Humana Inc. and its
subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains both historical and
forward-looking information. The forward-looking statements may be
significantly impacted by risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
There can be no assurance that anticipated future results will be achieved
because actual results may differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that a number of factors,
which are described herein, could adversely affect the Company's ability to
obtain these results. These include the effects of either federal or state
health care reform or other legislation, changes in the Medicare reimbursement
system, renewal of the Company's Medicare contracts with the federal
government, renewal of the Company's contract with the federal government to
administer the TRICARE program and renewal of the Company's Medicaid contracts
with various state governments. Such factors also include the effects of other
general business conditions, including but not limited to, the Company's
ability to integrate its acquisitions, the Company's ability to appropriately
address the "Year 2000" computer system issue, government regulation,
competition, premium rate and yield changes, retrospective premium adjustments
relating to federal government contracts, medical and pharmacy cost trends,
changes in Commercial and Medicare HMO membership, operating subsidiary capital
requirements, the ability of health care providers (including physician
practice management companies) to comply with current contract terms, the
effect of provider contract rate negotiations, general economic conditions and
the retention of key employees. In addition, past financial performance is not
necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not
use historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends.
 
   Since 1983, the Company has been a health services company that facilitates
the delivery of health care services through networks of providers to its
approximately 6.2 million medical members. The Company's products are marketed
primarily through health maintenance organizations ("HMOs") and preferred
provider organizations ("PPOs") that encourage or require the use of contracted
providers. HMOs and PPOs control health care costs by various means, including
pre-admission approval for hospital inpatient services, pre-authorization of
outpatient surgical procedures and risk-sharing arrangements with providers.
These providers may share medical cost risk or have other incentives to deliver
quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. During 1998, the Company
began an initiative to increase the amount of medical cost risk assumed by
certain of its provider partners related primarily to its HMO products. As a
result, at December 31, 1998, approximately 50 percent and 70 percent of its
Commercial and Medicare HMO membership, respectively, were under various forms
of risk-sharing arrangements. The Company also offers various specialty
products to employers, including dental, group life and workers' compensation,
and administrative services ("ASO") to those who self-insure their employee
health plans.
 
   The Company markets and distributes its products to three distinct customer
groups and, therefore, reports operations in three business segments. Results
of each segment are measured based on premium revenues and underwriting margin
(premium revenues less medical expenses). The Company does not allocate assets
or administrative costs to the segments and, therefore, does not measure
results based on segment assets or pretax profits. Members from all three
segments generally utilize the same medical provider networks, enabling the
Company to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. As a result,
the profitability of each segment is somewhat interdependent.
 
   In the Commercial segment, the Company markets and distributes its fully-
insured HMO, PPO, specialty and ASO products to large group employers (over 100
employees) and small group employers. Premium revenue pricing to large group
employers has historically been more competitive than that to small group
 

 
employers, resulting in less favorable underwriting margins for large groups.
At December 31, 1998, the Company had a total of 3,261,500 fully-insured
Commercial members and provided claims processing, utilization review and other
administrative services to 646,200 ASO members.
 
   In the Public Sector segment, the Company markets and distributes its
Medicare and Medicaid products to individuals eligible for these government-
sponsored programs. The products marketed to Medicare-eligible individuals are
either HMO products ("Medicare HMO") or indemnity insurance policies that
supplement Medicare benefits ("Medicare supplement"). At December 31, 1998, the
Company had 502,000 Medicare HMO members and 56,600 Medicare supplement
members. The Company facilitates the delivery of health care services to
Medicaid-eligible individuals under contracts generally renewable annually with
various states except for a two-year contract with the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico. The Puerto Rico contract, previously scheduled to expire on March 31,
1999, has been extended one month to April 30, 1999. The Company does not
expect to be able to renew the contract in Puerto Rico under favorable terms
and, therefore, has announced its intention to close this market when the
contract expires. At December 31, 1998, the Company had 643,800 Medicaid
members, approximately 442,000 of which were in Puerto Rico.
 
   The Company's third segment is TRICARE. In this segment, the Company
facilitates the delivery of health care services to the dependents of active
military personnel and retired military personnel and their dependents located
in the Southeastern United States. The Company is in the third year of its
contract with the United States Department of Defense, which is renewable
annually for up to two additional years. As encouraged by government
regulation, TRICARE is managed by a separate management team and is more
autonomous than the Company's Commercial and Public Sector segments, which
generally share sales, marketing, customer service, medical management and
claims processing functions of the Company. Three health benefit options are
available to TRICARE beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity
option, participants may enroll in an HMO-like plan with a point-of-service
option or take advantage of reduced co-payments by using a network of preferred
providers. The Company has subcontracted with third parties to provide certain
administration and specialty services under the contract. At December 31, 1998,
the Company had 1,085,700 TRICARE members.
 
   On February 28, 1997, the Company acquired Health Direct, Inc. ("Health
Direct") from Advocate Health Care for $23 million in cash. This transaction
added approximately 50,000 medical members to the Company's Chicago, Illinois,
membership.
 
   On September 8, 1997, the Company acquired Physician Corporation of America
("PCA") for total consideration of $411 million in cash, consisting primarily
of $7 per share for PCA's outstanding common stock and the assumption of $121
million in debt. The purchase was funded with borrowings under the Company's
commercial paper program. PCA served approximately 1.1 million medical members
and provided comprehensive health services through its HMOs in Florida, Texas
and Puerto Rico. In addition, PCA provided workers' compensation third-party
administrative management services. Prior to November 1996, PCA also was a
direct writer of workers' compensation insurance in Florida.
 
   On October 17, 1997, the Company acquired ChoiceCare Corporation
("ChoiceCare") for approximately $250 million in cash. The purchase was funded
with borrowings under the Company's commercial paper program. ChoiceCare
provided health services products to approximately 250,000 medical members in
the Greater Cincinnati, Ohio, area.
 
   On January 31, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its Washington, D.C.,
health plan to Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic States, Inc.
Effective April 1, 1997, the Company also completed the sale of its Alabama
operations, exclusive of its small group business and Alabama TRICARE
operations, to PrimeHealth of Alabama, Inc. On October 31, 1997, the Company
also sold The Lexington Hospital in Lexington, Kentucky, to Jewish Hospital
Healthcare Services, Inc. These sale transactions did not have a material
impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.
 
 

 
Commercial Products
 
 HMO
 
   An HMO provides prepaid health care services to its members through a
network of independent primary care physicians, specialty physicians and other
health care providers who contract with the HMO to furnish such services.
Primary care physicians generally include internists, family practitioners and
pediatricians. Generally, access to specialty physicians and other health care
providers must be approved by the member's primary care physician. These other
health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes, home
health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers,
diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent
care centers and durable medical equipment suppliers. Because access to these
other health care providers must generally be approved by the primary care
physician, the HMO product is the most restrictive form of managed care.
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company owned and operated 14 actively licensed
HMOs, which contracted with approximately 78,300 physicians (including
approximately 22,200 primary care physicians) and approximately 1,060
hospitals. In addition, the Company had approximately 8,100 contracts with
other providers to provide services to HMO members.
 
   An HMO member, typically through the member's employer, pays a monthly fee
which generally covers, with minimal co-payments, health care services received
from or approved by the member's primary care physician. For the year ended
December 31, 1998, Commercial HMO premium revenues totaled approximately $2.3
billion or 24 percent of the Company's total premium revenues. Approximately
$182 million of the Company's Commercial HMO premium revenues for the year
ended December 31, 1998 were derived from contracts with the United States
Office of Personnel Management ("OPM"), under which the Company facilitates the
delivery of health care services to approximately 117,000 federal civilian
employees and their dependents. Pursuant to these contracts, payments made by
OPM may be retrospectively adjusted downward by OPM if an audit discloses that
a comparable product was offered by the Company to a similar size subscriber
group at a lower premium rate than that offered to OPM. Management believes
that any retrospective adjustments as a result of OPM audits will not have a
material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.
 
 PPO
 
   PPO products include many elements of managed health care. PPOs are also
similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with the
freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. In a PPO, the
member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health
care providers which have contracted with the PPO to provide services at
favorable rates. In the event a member chooses not to use a participating
health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of
the provider's fees.
 
   At December 31, 1998, approximately 85,300 physicians and approximately
1,020 hospitals contracted directly with the Company to provide services to PPO
members. The Company also had approximately 6,200 contracts (including certain
contracts which also service the Company's HMOs) with other providers to
provide services to PPO members. In addition, the Company had access to 28
leased provider networks throughout the country.
 
   For the year ended December 31, 1998, Commercial PPO premium revenues
totaled approximately $2.7 billion or 28 percent of the Company's total premium
revenues.
 
   The Company expects that 1999 Commercial HMO and PPO premium rates will
increase approximately 5 to 7 percent from 1998 levels. Over the last four
years, changes in the Company's Commercial HMO and PPO premium rates have
ranged between an approximate 2 percent decrease for the year ended December
31, 1995, to an approximate 4 percent increase for the year ended December 31,
1998, with an average increase of approximately 1 percent.
 

 
Medicare Products
 
   Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some
disabled persons certain hospital and medical insurance benefits, which include
hospitalization benefits for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a
lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Each Medicare-eligible individual is
entitled to receive inpatient hospital care ("Part A") without the payment of
any premium, but is required to pay a premium to the federal government, which
is adjusted annually, to be eligible for physician care and other services
("Part B").
 
   Even though participating in both Part A and Part B of the traditional
Medicare program, beneficiaries are still required to pay certain deductible
and coinsurance amounts. They may, if they choose, supplement their Medicare
coverage by purchasing Medicare supplement policies which pay these deductibles
and coinsurance amounts. Many of these policies also cover other services (such
as prescription drugs) which are not included in Medicare coverage.
 
   Humana contracts with the federal government's Health Care Financing
Administration ("HCFA") to facilitate the delivery of medical benefits in
exchange for a fixed monthly payment per member to Medicare-eligible
individuals residing in the geographic areas in which its HMOs operate.
Individuals who elect to participate in these Medicare programs are relieved of
the obligation to pay some or all of the deductible or coinsurance amounts but
are generally required to use exclusively the services provided by the HMO and
are required to pay a Part B premium to the Medicare program. In 1998, the
enrollee paid the HMO a premium only in cases where the HMO facilitates the
delivery of additional benefits and where competitive market conditions permit.
At December 31, 1998, approximately 73,000 members in 16 markets were paying
premiums which totaled approximately $22 million in 1998.
 
 Medicare HMO
 
   A Medicare HMO product involves a contract between an HMO and HCFA pursuant
to which HCFA makes a fixed monthly payment to the HMO on behalf of each
Medicare-eligible individual who chooses to enroll for coverage in the HMO.
Membership may be terminated by the member at any time during the month. The
fixed monthly payment is determined by formula established by federal law.
 
   As of January 1, 1999, the Company facilitates the delivery of Medicare HMO
services under 10 contracts with HCFA in 11 states. Management believes that
additional Medicare HMO growth opportunities exist because only approximately
15 percent of the country's Medicare-eligible beneficiaries are enrolled in
managed care programs similar to those offered by the Company. The Company
intends to pursue those opportunities in markets which meet the Company's long-
term growth strategies.
 
   At December 31, 1998, HCFA contracts covered approximately 502,000 Medicare
HMO members for which the Company received premium revenues of approximately
$2.9 billion or 30 percent of the Company's total premium revenues for 1998. At
December 31, 1998, one such HCFA contract covered approximately 264,000 members
in Florida and accounted for premium revenues of approximately $1.5 billion,
which represented 52 percent of the Company's HCFA premium revenues or 16
percent of the Company's total premium revenues for 1998. HCFA contracts are
renewed for a one-year term each December 31 unless terminated 90 days prior
thereto. Management believes termination of the HCFA contract covering the
members in Florida would have a material adverse effect on the revenues,
profitability and business prospects of the Company.
 
   As more fully discussed in the "Health Care Reform-National" section, the
Balanced Budget Act of 1997 ("BBA") included provisions that altered the
methodology for payment effective January 1, 1998 in the Medicare program. The
Company's 1999 average rate of statutory increase under the HCFA contracts is
approximately 2 percent. Over the last five years, annual increases have ranged
from as low as the January 1998 and 1999 increases of 2 percent to as high as
10 percent in January 1996, with an average of approximately 5 percent,
including the January 1999 increase. Cost saving initiatives and continuation
of risk-sharing strategies are necessary to mitigate the effect of lower
Medicare reimbursement rates.
 

 
   The loss of the Company's HCFA contracts or significant changes in the
Medicare HMO program as a result of legislative action, including reductions in
payments or increases in benefits without corresponding increases in payments,
would have a material adverse effect on the revenues, profitability and
business prospects of the Company.
 
 Medicare Supplement
 
   The Company's Medicare supplement product is an insurance policy which pays
for hospital deductibles, co-payments and coinsurance for which an individual
enrolled in the traditional Medicare program is responsible.
 
   Under the terms of existing Medicare supplement policies, the Company may
not reduce or cancel the benefits contracted for by policyholders. These
policies are renewable annually by the insured at the Company's prevailing
rates, which may increase subject to approval by appropriate state insurance
regulators.
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company facilitated the delivery of Medicare
supplement benefits for approximately 56,600 members. For the year ended
December 31, 1998, Medicare supplement premium revenues totaled approximately
$68 million or 1 percent of the Company's total premium revenues.
 
Medicaid Products
 
   Medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to facilitate the
delivery of health care services to low-income residents. Each state which
chooses to do so develops, through a state specific regulatory agency, a
Medicaid managed care initiative which must be approved by HCFA. HCFA requires
that Medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than
the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis.
States currently use either a formal proposal process reviewing many bidders or
award individual contracts to qualified bidders which apply for entry to the
program. In either case, the contractual relationship with the state is
generally for a one-year period. Management believes that the risks associated
with participation in a state Medicaid managed care program are similar to the
risks associated with the Medicare HMO product discussed previously. In both
instances, the Company receives a fixed monthly payment from a government
agency for which it is required to facilitate the delivery of managed health
care services to enrolled members. Due to the increased emphasis on state
health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a
managed care product in their Medicaid programs.
 
   The Company also maintains a two-year contract with the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico to facilitate the delivery of health care services to Medicaid-
eligible individuals. The Puerto Rico contract, previously scheduled to expire
March 31, 1999, has been extended one month to April 30, 1999. The Company does
not expect to be able to renew the contract with the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico under favorable terms and, therefore, has announced its intention to close
this market when the contract expires. For the year ended December 31, 1998,
premium revenues from the Company's Medicaid products totaled approximately
$554 million or 6 percent of the Company's total premium revenues. It is
anticipated that Medicaid premium revenues will approximate 3 percent of the
Company's total 1999 premium revenues. At December 31, 1998, the Company had
approximately 201,800 and 442,000 Medicaid members in four states and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, respectively.
 
TRICARE
 
   In 1993, the Company established Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc.
(a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company), to enter into contracts to
facilitate the delivery of managed care services to the dependents of active
military personnel and retired military personnel and their dependents. In
November 1995, the United States Department of Defense awarded the Company its
first TRICARE contract covering approximately 1.1 million eligible
beneficiaries in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama,
Tennessee and Eastern Louisiana.
 
 

 
   On July 1, 1996, the Company began facilitating the delivery of managed
health care services to these approximate 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries
under a potential five-year contract (a one-year contract renewable annually
for up to two additional years). The government exercised its option to extend
the contract for one additional year effective July 1, 1998. The Company has
subcontracted with third parties to provide certain administration and
specialty services under the contract. Three health benefit options are
available to TRICARE beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity
option, participants may enroll in an HMO-like plan with a point-of-service
option or take advantage of reduced co-payments by using a network of preferred
providers. TRICARE premium revenues were approximately $800 million or 8
percent of the Company's total premium revenues for the year ended December 31,
1998.
 
   The Company will actively seek opportunities to facilitate the delivery of
managed care services to beneficiaries of federal and state programs, including
other TRICARE contracts.
 
Other Related Products
 
   The Company offers various specialty products to employers, including
dental, group life and workers' compensation, and administrative services
("ASO") to those who self-insure their employee health plans. Specialty and
administrative services membership at December 31, 1998 totaled approximately
2.6 million members and 646,200 members, respectively. Specialty product
premium revenues were approximately $239 million or 3 percent of the Company's
total premiums for the year ended December 31, 1998.
 
   The following table lists the Company's premium revenue for the year ended
December 31, 1998, by product and segment:
 
                                PREMIUM REVENUE
                                 (In millions)

 
Provider Arrangements
 
   In certain situations the Company's HMOs contract with individual or groups
of primary care physicians, generally for an actuarially determined, fixed,
per-member-per-month fee called a "capitation" payment. Under these
arrangements, physicians are paid a fixed amount to provide services to their
members. These contracts typically obligate primary care physicians to provide
or make referrals to specialty physicians and other providers for the provision
of all covered managed health care services to HMO members. The capitation
payment does not vary with the nature or extent of services to the member and
is generally designed to shift a portion of the HMOs' financial risk to the
primary care physician. The degree to which the Company uses capitation
arrangements varies by provider.
 
   The Company also contracts with medical specialists and other providers to
which a primary care physician may refer a member. The contracts with
specialists may be capitation arrangements or may provide for payment on a fee-
for-service basis based on negotiated fees. Typically, payments by the Company
to these
 

 
specialists and other providers reduce the ultimate payment that otherwise
would be made to primary care physicians. The Company's HMOs also have
arrangements under which physicians can earn bonuses when certain target goals
relating to quality and cost effectiveness in the provision of patient care are
met. The Company's contracts with capitated physicians generally provide for
stop-loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single member
is limited to a certain amount on an annual basis.
 
   The focal point for cost control in the Company's HMOs is the primary care
physician who, under contract, provides services and controls utilization of
appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to
specialists and other providers. Cost control is further achieved by directly
negotiating provider discounts. Cost control in the Company's PPOs is achieved
primarily by establishing a cost-effective network of participating health care
providers and providing incentives for members to use such providers. These
providers are generally paid on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. With
respect to both HMO and PPO products, cost control is further achieved through
the use of a utilization review system designed to allow only necessary
hospital admissions, lengths of stay and necessary or appropriate medical
procedures. The Company's HMOs and PPOs generally contract for hospital
services under per-diem arrangements for inpatient hospital services and
discounted fee-for-service arrangements for outpatient services. During the
year ended December 31, 1998, approximately 35 percent of the Company's total
medical costs were for services provided to its members in hospitals or related
facilities.
 
   The Company has certain other risk-sharing contracts whereby providers also
assume a specified level of risk for covered managed care services to its
members. Under these risk-sharing arrangements called global capitation
contracts, providers are paid a monthly capitation payment per covered member
to assume risk for all managed care services including professional and
institutional (i.e. hospital) costs. The capitation payments are based on a
specified percentage of premiums (typically 78 to 88 percent).
 
   During 1998, the Company began an initiative to increase the amount of HMO
product medical cost risk assumed by certain of its provider partners. As a
result, at December 31, 1998, approximately 50 percent and 70 percent of its
Commercial and Medicare HMO membership, respectively, were under some form of
risk sharing arrangements. Under all of its risk-sharing arrangements, the
Company remains financially responsible for the provision of covered medical
services if its contractors fail to perform their obligations under the
contract.
 
   Prior to 1998, the Company employed physicians providing services to members
in markets where it operated health centers or staff model HMOs. As part of its
ongoing strategy of identifying and assessing non-strategic assets, the Company
reached separate agreements during 1998 whereby certain provider groups or
systems assumed the operations of most of Humana's health centers. The
agreements relate to approximately 440 physicians formerly employed by Humana
and approximately 361,000 members of the Company's health centers.
 
   The Company continually contracts and seeks to renew contracts with
providers at rates designed to ensure adequate profitability. To the extent the
Company is unable to obtain such rates, its financial position, results of
operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Currently, the Company
is in negotiations with a major provider and is unable to predict the impact of
these negotiations on future contract rates.
 
   During 1998, the Company continued its Hospital Inpatient Management System
("HIMS") which allows specially trained physicians to manage the entire range
of medical care while an HMO member is in the hospital, and coordinate the
member's discharge and care after discharge. The Company also continues to
implement several disease management programs in various markets. Under these
arrangements, the Company provides financial incentives for contractors to
provide the full range of care to members with respect to a particular high
risk or chronic disease in a quality, cost-effective manner. These programs
include congestive heart failure, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma
related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes and breast cancer screening.
 
 

 
Quality Assessment and Customer Service
 
   Access to high quality health care services is an important element of the
Company's business. All of the Company's contracts require that the provider
participate in the Company's quality assurance program. Physician participation
in the Company's HMOs and PPOs is conditioned upon the physician meeting the
Company's requirements concerning the physician's professional qualifications.
When considering whether to contract with a physician for HMO participation,
the Company performs or contracts for on-going credentialing verifications and
peer review that meet both regulatory and accrediting agency standards.
 
   The Company has a program in place to monitor important aspects of HMO plan-
wide service and quality indicators with oversight by a board and senior
management committee. Such indicators as credentialing, quality concerns,
customer service, disenrollment and satisfaction are measured against
standards. Another measure of quality is the reporting of Health Plan Employer
Data Information Sets ("HEDIS"), which the Company has been reporting since
June 1994. HEDIS is useful to purchasers of managed health care services to
measure individual health plan quality and service. Each HMO has in place a
peer review procedure which is implemented by a quality management committee
("QMC"). This committee is headed by the HMO's medical director and is composed
of physicians and physician group representatives. The QMC performs an initial
evaluation of applicants for credentialing and reviews all providers on a
periodic basis to monitor the appropriateness of members' care.
 
Health Maintenance Organization Accreditation
 
   With the increasing significance of managed care in the health care
industry, several independent organizations have been formed for the purpose of
responding to external demands for accountability over the managed care
industry. The organizations utilized by the Company are the National Committee
for Quality Assurance ("NCQA") and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO"). In the states of Kansas and Florida,
accreditation or external review by an accrediting organization is mandatory
and generally required for licensure.
 
   NCQA performs site reviews of standards for quality improvement,
credentialing, utilization management, medical records, preventive health
services and member rights and responsibilities. As of January 31, 1999, eight
of Humana's HMOs have achieved full accreditation from NCQA. Humana Medical
Plan, Inc., in its South Florida and Tampa Bay markets, Humana Health Plan,
Inc., in its Chicago market, Humana Health Plan, Inc. and Humana Kansas City,
Inc., in the Kansas City market, Humana Health Plan of Ohio, Inc. dba
ChoiceCare in the Cincinnati market and Humana Health Plan, Inc., HMPK, Inc.
and HPlan, Inc. in the Louisville market. In addition, Humana Medical Plan,
Inc. in its North Florida (Jacksonville) and Central Florida (includes Daytona
and Orlando areas) are fully accredited by NCQA pending limited merger reviews.
The limited merger reviews will assess the integration of the fully accredited
PCA Health Plans that Humana acquired during 1997. Humana also has an NCQA
accreditation survey scheduled for the Texas market in July 1999. This survey
will include Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc., Humana HMO Texas, Inc. and PCA
Health Plans of Texas, Inc., located in the San Antonio, Austin, Corpus
Christi, Dallas and Houston markets.
 
   JCAHO reviews rights, responsibilities and ethics, continuum of care,
education and communication, leadership, management of information and human
resources, and network performance. JCAHO also evaluates the mechanisms the
organization has established to ensure continuous quality improvement. Humana
Medical Plan, Inc., in Humana's Ft. Walton market received a three-year
accreditation from JCAHO during 1998.
 
The Company's Y2K Readiness Disclosure Statement
 
   The Company operates one of the largest managed care data centers in the
nation. The primary computing facility is located in Louisville, Kentucky with
a satellite operation in Green Bay, Wisconsin. In 1998, Humana's Information
Systems organization included 950 associates with an annual operating budget of
$135 million. The Company's application systems are largely developed and
maintained in-house by a staff of 400
 

 
application programmers who are versed in the use of state-of-the-art
technology. All application systems are fully integrated and automatically pass
data through various system processes. The information systems support
marketing, sales, underwriting, contract administration, billing, financial,
and other administrative functions as well as customer service, authorization
and referral management, concurrent review, physician capitation and claims
administration, provider management, quality management and utilization review.
 
   The Company internally develops most of its own application systems
software. All application systems must comply with strict standards for data
integrity, file compatibility and architectural requirements. The Company
maintains a central project coordination function and an architectural review
function that ensure consistency across the application portfolio. The Company
has subscribed to automated file processes and integrated data architectures
for over twenty-five years.
 
   The Year 2000 issue is the result of two potential malfunctions that may
have an impact on the Company's systems and equipment. The first potential
malfunction is the result of computers being programmed to use two rather than
four digits to define the applicable year. The second potential malfunction
arises where embedded microchips and micro-controllers have been designed using
two rather than four digits to define the applicable year. As a result, certain
of the Company's date-sensitive computer programs, building infrastructure
components and medical devices, may recognize a date using "00" as the year
1900 rather than the year 2000. If uncorrected, the problem may result in
computer system and program failures or equipment malfunctions that could
result in a disruption of business operations (such as the payment of medical
claims, premium billing and collection, and membership enrollment verification
as well as the use of medical equipment such as heart defibrillators).
 
   Humana's Information Systems organization operates in a centralized manner.
The Company's data center and the majority of its programming and support staff
are located at its corporate offices in Louisville, Kentucky. A Year 2000
project management office is in place to oversee the progress made in the
assessment and correction of the Company's Year 2000 exposures.
 
   In general, the Company's Year 2000 project consists of four phases--
assessment, remediation, validation, and implementation--and is categorized
into the following four components:
 
     Information Technology (IT)--software essential for day-to-day
  operations including both internally developed software and third party
  software which interfaces therewith.
 
     IT Infrastructure--mainframe, network, telecommunications interfaces and
  self-contained operating systems.
 
     Third party business partners and intermediaries--entities on which the
  Company relies for transmission and receipt of claims, and encounter,
  membership and payment information, including federal and state
  governmental agencies such as the Health Care Financing Administration.
 
     Non-IT Infrastructure--telecommunications equipment, elevators, public
  safety equipment (i.e., security and fire), medical equipment and HVAC
  systems.
 
   The Company commenced the assessment of its Year 2000 exposures in 1996.
Remediation efforts of internally developed software and third party software
applications have also begun. The Company's plan is to have modified all
critical mainframe systems and components in time for such systems and
components to utilize the updated Year 2000 logic during the second quarter of
1999. Modifying all critical systems and components by the second quarter of
1999 will enable the majority of the modified programs to run in a production
environment for a considerable period of time before encountering Year 2000
data. Of the Company's 98 mainframe systems identified in the assessment, 92
have been renovated, validated and are currently operating using the updated
Year 2000 logic. During 1999, the remaining 6 systems will be modified,
upgraded, or replaced and all systems will continue to be monitored and tested
to ensure that they will function properly after December 31, 1999. In
addition, the Company is in the process of contacting vendors, third party
 

 
business partners and intermediaries in an effort to obtain the information
necessary to address Year 2000 issues. The Company anticipates completing, in
all material respects, its Year 2000 project by the end of the third quarter
1999. The Company's efforts are currently progressing on plan.
 
   The Year 2000 project is currently estimated to have a minimum total cost of
approximately $25 million. Project to date costs total $19.5 million, including
$18.5 million during the year ended December 31, 1998. Year 2000 expenses
represented less than 15 percent of the Information Systems budget during 1998.
Year 2000 costs are expensed as incurred and funded through operating cash
flow.
 
   The extent and magnitude of the Year 2000 project, as it will affect the
Company both before and for some period after January 1, 2000, are difficult to
predict or quantify. As a result, the Company has recently undertaken the
development of contingency plans in the event that its Year 2000 project is not
completed in an accurate or timely manner. The Company has identified five
major functional areas, covering 20 operational subdivisions, that will require
contingency plans. The five major functional areas are: providers, service
centers, suppliers and vendors, customers and brokers, and banking and finance.
The Company is in the process of developing and refining alternative operating
procedures for each functional area. Additionally, a tracking system is being
developed to monitor the implementation of these procedures.
 
   While the Company presently believes that the timely completion of its Year
2000 project will limit exposure so that the Year 2000 will not pose material
operational problems, the Company does not control third party systems.
Although the Company is contacting third parties, the Company has not received
assurances that all third party interfaces will be converted in a timely
manner. Additionally, if Year 2000 modifications or upgrades are not
accomplished in a timely manner or proper contingency plans are not
implemented, Year 2000 failures which may result could have a material adverse
impact on the Company's results of operations or its financial position.
 
   The costs of the Year 2000 project and the date on which the Company plans
to complete Year 2000 modifications are based on management's best estimates,
considering assumptions of future events including the continued availability
of certain resources and other factors. There can be no guarantee that these
estimates will be achieved and actual results could differ materially from
plan. Specific factors that might cause such material differences include, but
are not limited to, the availability and cost of personnel trained in this
area, the ability to locate and correct all relevant computer codes, and the
ability of the Company's significant suppliers, customers and others with which
it conducts business, including federal and state governmental agencies, to
identify and resolve their own Year 2000 issues.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
   Individuals become members of the Company's Commercial HMOs and PPOs through
their employer or other groups which typically offer employees or members a
selection of managed health care products, pay for all or part of the premiums
and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. The
Company attempts to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of managed
health care benefits by offering HMO and PPO products that facilitate the
delivery of cost-effective quality care consistent with the needs and
expectations of the employees or members.
 
   The Company uses various methods to market its Commercial and Public Sector
products, including television, radio, telemarketing and mailings. At December
31, 1998, the Company used approximately 47,800 licensed independent brokers
and agents and approximately 500 licensed employees to sell the Company's
Commercial products. Many of the Company's employer group customers are
represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the
design and purchase of health care products. The Company generally pays brokers
a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium
volume.
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company used approximately 6,200 licensed
independent brokers for referrals and approximately 1,100 employed sales
representatives, who are each paid a salary and/or per member
 

 
commission, to market the Company's Medicaid and Medicare products. The
Company also used approximately 500 telemarketing representatives who assisted
in the marketing of Medicaid and Medicare products by making appointments for
broker/sales representatives with prospective members.
 
   The following table lists the Company's medical membership at December 31,
1998, by state and product:
 
                              MEDICAL MEMBERSHIP
                                (In thousands)
 

 
Risk Management
 
   Through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, the Company
determines the risk it is willing to assume and the amount of premium to
charge for its Commercial products. In most instances, employers and other
groups must meet the Company's underwriting standards in order to qualify to
contract with the Company for coverage. Small group reform laws in some states
have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health
insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates
charged based upon assessment of health conditions.
 
   Underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with Medicare HMO
products because HCFA regulations require the Company to accept all eligible
Medicare applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history. The
Company also is not permitted to employ underwriting criteria for the Medicaid
product but rather follows HCFA and state requirements. In addition, with
respect to the TRICARE contract, no underwriting techniques are employed
because the Company must accept all eligible beneficiaries who choose to
participate.
 
Competition
 
   The managed health care industry is highly competitive and contracts for
the sale of Commercial products are generally bid or renewed annually. The
Company's competitors vary by local market and include Blue Cross/Blue Shield
(including HMOs and PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans), national
insurance companies and other HMOs and PPOs. Many of the Company's competitors
have more membership in local markets or greater financial resources. The
Company's ability to sell its products and to retain customers is or may be
influenced by such factors as benefits, pricing, contract terms, number and
quality of participating physicians and other managed health care providers,
utilization review, claims processing, administrative efficiency,
relationships with agents, quality of customer service and accreditation
results.
 

 
Government Regulation
 
   Of the Company's 14 actively licensed HMO subsidiaries, nine are qualified
under the Federal Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973, as amended. To
obtain federal qualification, an HMO must meet certain requirements, including
conformance with benefit, rating and financial reporting standards. In certain
markets, and for certain products, the Company operates HMOs that are not
federally qualified because this provides greater flexibility with respect to
product design and pricing than is possible for federally qualified HMOs.
 
   Six subsidiaries (Humana Medical Plan, Inc., Humana Health Plan of Texas,
Inc., Humana Health Plan, Inc., Humana Kansas City, Inc., Humana Health Plan of
Ohio, Inc. and Humana Wisconsin Health Organization Insurance Corporation) are
qualified under HCFA's Medicare+Choice program to sell Medicare HMO products in
11 states.
 
   HCFA conducts audits of HMOs qualified under its Medicare+Choice program at
least biannually and may perform other reviews more frequently to determine
compliance with federal regulations and contractual obligations. These audits
include review of the HMO's administration and management (including management
information and data collection systems), fiscal stability, utilization
management and physician incentive arrangements, health services delivery,
quality assurance, marketing, enrollment and disenrollment activity, claims
processing and complaint systems.
 
   HCFA requires an independent review of medical records and quality of care
and all denied claims and service complaints which are not resolved in favor of
a member. All advertising and member communication materials require review and
approval by HCFA.
 
   HCFA regulations require quarterly and annual submission of financial
statements. In addition, HCFA requires certain disclosures to HCFA and to
Medicare beneficiaries concerning operations of a health plan qualified under
the Medicare+Choice program. Financial arrangements and incentive plans between
an HMO and physicians in the HMO's networks are an important area within the
HCFA regulations for qualified HMOs. These rules also require certain levels of
stop-loss coverage to protect contracted physicians against major losses
relating to patient care, depending on the amount of financial risk they
assume. The reporting of certain health care data contained in HEDIS is another
important HCFA disclosure requirement.
 
   The Company's Medicaid products are regulated by the applicable state agency
in the state in which the Company sells a Medicaid product and the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, in conformance with federal approval of the applicable state
plan, and are subject to periodic reviews by these agencies. The reviews are
similar in nature to those performed by HCFA.
 
   Laws in each of the states and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in which the
Company operates its HMOs, PPOs and other health insurance-related services
regulate the Company's operations, including the scope of benefits, rate
formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance,
complaint systems, enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing and
advertising. The HMO, PPO and other health insurance-related products offered
by the Company are sold under licenses issued by the applicable insurance
regulators and are required to be in compliance with certain minimum capital
requirements. These requirements must be satisfied by investing in approved
investments that generally cannot be used for other purposes. Under state laws,
the Company's HMOs and health insurance companies are audited by state
departments of insurance for financial and contractual compliance, and its HMOs
are audited for compliance with health services standards by respective state
departments of health. Most states' laws require such audits to be performed at
least triennially.
 
   The Company and its licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under
state insurance holding company and Commonwealth of Puerto Rico regulations.
These regulations require, among other things, prior approval and/or notice of
certain material transactions, including dividend payments, intercompany
agreements and the filing of various financial and operational reports.
 

 
   The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has recommended that
states adopt a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula for companies established as
HMO entities. The RBC provisions may require new minimum capital and surplus
levels for some of the Company's HMO subsidiaries. The Company does not expect
that the RBC provisions will have a material impact on its financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.
 
   Management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws
and regulations affecting the Company's business.
 
Health Care Reform
 
   There continue to be diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both
the federal and state levels to address aspects of the nation's health care
system.
 
 National
 
   In 1997, Congress passed the Balanced Budget Act, including the
establishment of the Medicare+Choice program, which revised the structure of
and reimbursement for private health plan options for Medicare enrollees. The
BBA sought to expand the options available to Medicare enrollees by permitting
HCFA to contract with many types of managed care plans, including provider
sponsored organizations ("PSO"), and creating a new private fee-for-service
option. Few PSOs have applied for participation in the Medicare+Choice
programs. Federal reimbursement was also modified so that the premiums paid by
HCFA will be adjusted to take into account, on an increasing basis, a blend of
national and local health care cost factors, rather than only local costs--
starting with a 10% national factor in 1998 and moving to a 50% national factor
by 2003. In addition, starting in January 1999, the Company's Medicare
reimbursement will be reduced through the assessment of .355 percent of premium
(approximately $11 million), designed to fund a national senior education
program. The 1998 assessment was .428 percent.
 
   In addition, the BBA also required that HCFA modify Medicare reimbursement
by developing health-risk premium adjustments to better estimate the actual
cost for individual beneficiaries. In January 1999, HCFA released the
preliminary Year 2000 premium rates and the risk adjusted payment amounts with
a phased-in approach, moving to a 100% health-risk adjusted premium by the year
2004. Congress is evaluating the impact the methodology will have on
Medicare+Choice plans relative to current and future enrollment. Congress also
is evaluating the impact of other BBA provisions in light of the withdrawals of
several health plans, including those operated by Humana, from certain Medicare
markets characterized by high medical costs, inadequate reimbursement rates
and/or unsatisfactory provider contract arrangements. The Company is in the
process of preparing Medicare rate and benefit filings for Year 2000 and is
considering benefit reductions, increased member premiums and out-of-pocket
expenses to mitigate the effect of the lower Medicare reimbursement established
by the BBA.
 
   Other proposals under consideration by Congress include greater government
oversight over private health insurance. In addition, the President and the
President's Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the
Health Care Industry have made recommendations for enhancing certain consumer
health insurance rights. It is expected that both the House and the Senate will
consider specific legislation authorizing certain patient protections in
private health insurance during 1999.
 
 State
 
   A number of states have enacted some form of managed care reform. Issues
relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased
plan information disclosure, expedited grievance and
 

 
appeals procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health
plan liability, access to specialists and confidentiality of medical records
continue to be under discussion. Further, proposals that place restrictions on
the selection and termination of participating health care providers also are
receiving review. A few states are also expected to consider small group
purchasing alliance legislation.
 
   Management believes that managed care and health care in general will
continue to be scrutinized and may lead to additional legislative health care
reform initiatives. Management is unable to predict how existing federal or
state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws
or regulations affecting the Company's businesses may be enacted or proposed,
when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new
laws and regulations will have on the revenues, profitability and business
prospects of the Company.
 
Other
 
 Captive Insurance Company
 
   The Company insures substantially all professional liability risks through a
wholly-owned subsidiary (the"Subsidiary"). The annual premiums paid to the
Subsidiary are determined by independent actuaries. The Subsidiary reinsures
levels of coverage for losses in excess of its retained limits with unrelated
insurance carriers.
 
 Centralized Management Services
 
   Centralized management services are provided to each health plan from the
Company's headquarters and service centers. These services include management
information systems, product administration, financing, personnel, development,
accounting, legal advice, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing,
risk management, actuarial, underwriting and claims processing.
 
Employees
 
   As of December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately 16,300 employees,
including approximately 300 employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements. The Company has not experienced any work stoppages and believes it
has good relations with its employees.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
   The Company owns its principal executive office, which is the Humana
Building, located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202.
 
   The Company owns or leases medical centers ranging in size from
approximately 1,500 to 80,000 square feet. Most of the medical centers are
leased or subleased to providers within Humana's network. The Company's
administrative market offices are generally leased, with square footage ranging
from approximately 700 to 89,000. The following chart lists the location of
properties used in the operation of the Company at December 31, 1998:
 

 
   In addition, the Company owns buildings in Louisville, Kentucky, San
Antonio, Texas, Green Bay, Wisconsin and Jacksonville, Florida, and leases
facilities in Madison, Wisconsin, all of which are used for customer service
and claims processing. The Louisville and Green Bay facilities also perform
enrollment processing and other corporate functions.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
   A class action lawsuit styled Mary Forsyth, et al v. Humana Inc., et al,
Case #CV-5-89-249-PMP (L.R.L.), was filed on March 29, 1989, in the United
States District Court for the District of Nevada. On August 18, 1997, the
Company filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme
Court ("Petition") requesting the Supreme Court to reverse the Ninth Circuit's
decision to reinstate the claim under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act ("RICO") on behalf of a class of insureds who paid
coinsurance at Humana hospitals (the "Co-Payer Class"). The petition was
granted by the Supreme Court on June 22, 1998. Oral arguments on the Company's
Petition were heard on November 30, 1998. In a decision issued on January 20,
1999, the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the Ninth Circuit and reinstated
the RICO claim of the Co-Payer Class. The Ninth Circuit also reinstated an
antitrust claim that had been dismissed by the District Court. The Company
requested summary judgment in the District Court on that Claim on October 6,
1997. That request was denied on September 21, 1998. The Company has requested
the District Court to reconsider its decision. The plaintiffs have filed their
Fourth Amended Complaint and a motion for leave to file a Fifth Amended
Complaint reasserting an ERISA claim and adding new RICO and antitrust claims.
The company filed a motion to dismiss the Fourth Amended Complaint and a motion
opposing the plaintiffs' request to file the Fifth Amended Complaint. The
motions are pending before the District Court. The trial on the claims, which
was scheduled to begin on February 23, 1998, has been postponed.
 
   On April 22, 1993, an alleged stockholder of the Company filed a purported
shareholder derivative action in the Court of Chancery of the State of
Delaware, County of New Castle, styled Lewis v. Austen, et al, Civil Action No.
12937. The action was purportedly brought on behalf of the Company and Galen
Health Care, Inc.
 

 
("Galen") against all of the directors of both companies at the time Galen was
spun off from the Company alleging, among other things, that the defendants had
improperly amended the Company's existing stock option plans to bifurcate their
existing options to allow employees of each company to receive options in the
stock of the other company. The challenged amendment to the plan was approved
by the Company's stockholders at the 1993 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the case in October 1995. A hearing on
this motion was held on January 26, 1999. The decision is still pending. The
Company believes that the complaint is without merit.
 
   Between November 19, 1997 and December 11, 1997, three related, purported
class action complaints entitled (i) Medhat Reiser v. PCA, et al, Civil Action
No. 97-3678 (S.D. Fla.) (Middlebrooks, J.), (ii) Janice Wells and Stewart
Colton v. PCA, et al, Civil Action No. 97-3832 (King, J.), and (iii) David
Applestein v. PCA, et al, Civil Action No. 97-4030 (Nesbitt, J.), were filed in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida by
purported former stockholders of Physician Corporation of America ("PCA")
against PCA and certain of its former directors and officers. By order entered
February 13, 1998, the three actions were consolidated into a single action
entitled In re Physician Corporation of America Securities Litigation, Civil
Action No. 97-3678 (S.D. Fla.) (Middlebrooks, J.). The Reiser, Wells and
Applestein complaints contain the same or substantially similar allegations;
namely, that PCA and the individual defendants knowingly or recklessly made
false and misleading statements in press releases and public filings with
respect to the financial and regulatory difficulties of PCA's workers'
compensation business. Count I of all three complaints is premised on alleged
violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934
Act") and SEC Rule 10b-5, and Count II on alleged violations of Section 20(a)
of the 1934 Act. All three complaints seek certification of a class of
stockholders who purchased shares of PCA common stock from May 1996 through
March 1997, as well as money damages plus prejudgment interest in an
unspecified amount, and costs and expenses including attorneys fees. On
February 19, 1999, the U.S. District Court denied PCA's motion to dismiss. The
Company believes that the allegations in the above complaints are without merit
and intends to pursue the defense of the consolidated action vigorously.
 
   Damages for claims for personal injuries and medical benefit denials are
usual in the Company's business. Personal injury claims are covered by
insurance from the Subsidiary and excess carriers, except punitive damages
generally are not paid where claims are settled and generally are awarded only
where a court determines there has been a willful act or omission to act.
 
   Government regulators conduct reviews from time to time to audit compliance
with government regulations and statutes, and those reviews may result in fines
or other payments. Management does not believe that any pending and threatened
legal actions and audits by agencies that regulate the Company will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
   Not applicable.
 

 
                       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
   Set forth below are names and ages of all of the current executive officers
of the Company as of March 1, 1999, their positions, date of election to such
position and the date first elected an officer of the Company:
 

- --------
(1) Mr. Wolf currently serves as President, Chief Executive Officer and
    Director of the Company having been elected to this position December 1997.
    Mr. Wolf previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer from
    September 1996 until December 1997 and served as Chief Operating Officer of
    the Company since July 1996. Mr. Wolf was initially elected an officer of
    the Company at the time of the acquisition of EMPHESYS in 1995. Mr. Wolf
    had been President and Chief Operating Officer of EMPHESYS (now a wholly-
    owned subsidiary of the Company) since November 1994. Mr. Wolf was named
    Executive Vice President for Employers Health Insurance Company ("EHIC") (a
    wholly owned subsidiary of EMPHESYS) in 1993 and was named Senior Vice
    President for EHIC in 1990 for Marketing, Sales and Business Development.
(2) Mr. Fasola currently serves as Senior Vice President--Sales, Marketing and
    Business Development and was elected to this position November 1998. Prior
    to that, Mr. Fasola served as Vice President--Sales & Marketing from May
    1996 to November 1998. Mr. Fasola served in a similar capacity as Vice
    President and National Sales Manager of EHIC since 1989.
(3) Mr. McCallister currently serves as Senior Vice President--Health System
    Management and was elected to this position January 1998. Prior to that,
    Mr. McCallister served as Division I President from July 1996 to January
    1998. Mr. McCallister joined the Company in June 1974 as a Financial
    Specialist and served in several positions throughout the Company.
(4) Mr. Murray currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer and was elected to this position November 1998. Prior to this, Mr.
    Murray served as Chief Financial Officer from January 1997 to November 1998
    and Vice President--Finance from August 1990 to January 1997. Mr. Murray
    joined the Company as Controller in October 1989.
(5) Mr. Nelson was elected to the above position in September 1996. Prior to
    that, Mr. Nelson was Vice President and Chief Actuary of EHIC since 1992.
(6) Mr. Perkins currently serves as Senior Vice President--National Contracting
    and was elected to this position January 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Perkins
    served as Senior Vice President--Provider Affairs and Reengineering from
    August 1996 to January 1998. He served as President of the South/West
    Division from May 1996 to August 1996 and Vice President--Region II from
    August 1994 to May 1996. Mr. Perkins joined the Company in May 1976.
(7) Dr. Reeves, a pediatric oncologist, joined the Company in January 1997 in
    the above position. Prior to that, Dr. Reeves was Senior Vice President--
    Health Care Operations and Chief Medical Officer at Sierra Health Services,
    Inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada. Dr. Reeves was employed by Sierra for eight
    years.
 

 
 (8) Mr. Rotherham currently serves as Vice President--Customer Service and
     Operations and was elected to this position in October 1998. Prior to
     that, Mr. Rotherham served as Vice President & General Manager--Medstep
     from May 1998 through October 1998 and as Vice President--Marketing from
     September 1996 through May 1998. Mr. Rotherham also served in a similar
     capacity as Vice President for EHIC since 1994.
 (9) Mr. Rothrock currently serves as Senior Vice President--Specialty Products
     & Services & International Businesses and was elected to this position
     November 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Rothrock served as Vice President--
     Specialty Products and Business Development from May 1996 to November
     1998. Mr. Rothrock served in a similar capacity as Vice President for EHIC
     since 1993 and as an Assistant Vice President since 1991.
(10) Mr. Vieth currently serves as Senior Vice President--Market Segment
     Management and was elected to this position November 1998. Prior to that,
     Mr. Vieth served as Vice President--Strategy and Systems Development from
     January 1998 through November 1998. Mr. Vieth also served as Vice
     President--Development and Planning from December 1995 through January
     1998. Mr. Vieth joined the Company in November 1992 as Director of
     Development and Planning.
 
   Executive officers are elected annually by the Company's Board of Directors
and serve until their successors are elected or until resignation or removal.
There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers of the
Company.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
   Information for Items 5 through 8 of this report, which appears in the 1998
Annual Report to Stockholders as indicated on the following table, is
incorporated by reference herein in this report and filed as an exhibit hereto:
 

 
         Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
   The information required by this Item other than the information set forth
in Part I under the Section entitled "Executive Officers of the Company," is
herein incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 6, 1999 appearing
under the caption "Election of Directors" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
   The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 6, 1999, appearing under the caption "Executive
Compensation of the Company" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
   The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 6, 1999, appearing under the caption "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners of Company Common Stock" of such Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
   The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 6, 1999 appearing under the caption "Certain
Transactions with Management and Others" of such Proxy Statement.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) The financial statements, financial statement schedules and exhibits set
    forth below are filed as part of this report.
 
  (1) Financial Statements--The response to this portion of Item 14 is
 submitted as Item 8 of this report.
 
  (2) Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules:
 
     Consolidated Schedules as of and for the years ended December 31, 1998,
  1997 and 1996:
 
     I Parent Company Financial Information
 
     II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
     All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable.
 
  (3) Exhibits:
 

 
- --------
   * Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(u) are compensatory plans or
management contracts.
 
 

 

- --------
   * Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(u) are compensatory plans or
management contracts.
 

 

- --------
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K:
 
   No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last quarter of
   the period covered by this report.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
                                          Humana Inc.
 
                                                    /s/ James E. Murray
                                          By: _________________________________
                                                      James E. Murray
                                                  Chief Financial Officer
 
                                          Date: March 31, 1999
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 

 
 

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
Humana Inc.
 
   Our report on our audits of the consolidated financial statements of Humana
Inc. dated February 9, 1999 has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-
K from page 53 of the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders of Humana Inc. In
connection with our audits of such financial statements, we have also audited
the related financial statement schedules listed in the index in Item 14(a)(2)
of this Form 10-K.
 
   In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole
present fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
Louisville, Kentucky
February 9, 1999
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
 
              SCHEDULE I--PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (a)
                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
                           December 31, 1998 and 1997
                (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 

- --------
(a) Parent company financial information has been derived from the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and excludes the accounts of all
    operating subsidiaries. This information should be read in conjunction with
    the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
(b) In the normal course of business, the parent company indemnifies certain of
    its subsidiaries for health plan obligations its subsidiaries may be unable
    to meet.
(c) At December 31, 1998 current liabilities include $250 million of debt
    classified as short-term.
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
 
              SCHEDULE I--PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (a)
                         CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
              For the Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                             (Dollars in millions)
 

- --------
(a) Parent company financial information has been derived from the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and excludes the accounts of all
    operating subsidiaries. This information should be read in conjunction with
    the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
(b) Includes the operations of Health Direct, Inc., Physician Corporation of
    America and ChoiceCare Corporation since their dates of acquisition,
    February 28, 1997, September 8, 1997 and October 17, 1997, respectively.
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
 
              SCHEDULE I--PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (a)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              For the Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                             (Dollars in millions)
 

- --------
(a) Parent company financial information has been derived from the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and excludes the accounts of all
    operating subsidiaries. This information should be read in conjunction with
    the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
(b) During the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company
    received dividends from its operating subsidiaries totaling $93, $146 and
    $140, respectively.
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                             (Dollars in millions)
 

- --------
(a) Represents retroactive membership adjustments recorded in premium income.
 

