
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT, HUMANA INC.



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
      [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
                                       OR
 
      [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
              FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM          TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5975
 
                                  HUMANA INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 502-580-1000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of the Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in the Registrant's definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  X

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                Yes  X                                       No
                   ------                                      ------
     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of March 1, 1996, was $3,826,436,136 calculated using the average
price on such date of $25.1875. The number of shares outstanding of the
Registrant's Common Stock as of March 1, 1996, was 162,253,571.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Part II and portions of Part IV incorporate herein by reference the
Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders; Part III incorporates herein by
reference portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held
May 9, 1996.
 
     The Exhibit Index begins on page 13.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Humana Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in 1961. Its principal
executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky
40202 and its telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000. As used
herein, the terms "the Company" or "Humana" include Humana Inc. and its
subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains both historical and
forward looking information. The forward looking statements may be significantly
impacted by risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There can be
no assurance that the Company can duplicate its past performance or that
expected future results will be achieved. Readers are cautioned that a number of
factors, which are described herein, could adversely affect the Company's
ability to obtain these results, including the effects of healthcare reform,
renewal of the Company's Medicare risk contracts with the government, the
effects of accreditation reviews, the implementation and renewal of the
Company's CHAMPUS contract, and the effects of other general business
conditions, including but not limited to, competition, medical cost trends,
terms of provider contracts, premium rate changes, government regulation,
capital requirements, administrative costs, general economic conditions and the
retention of key employees.
 
     Since 1983, the Company has offered managed health care products which
integrate management with the delivery of health care services through a network
of providers, who in their delivery of quality medical services, may share
financial risk or who have incentives to deliver cost-effective medical
services. These products are marketed primarily through health maintenance
organizations ("HMOs") and preferred provider organizations ("PPOs") that
encourage or require use of contracting providers. HMOs and PPOs control health
care costs by various means, including utilization controls such as
pre-admission approval for hospital inpatient services, pre-authorization of
outpatient surgical procedures, and utilization of contracted physicians. The
Company also offers various specialty and administrative services products
including group life, dental, disability income, workers' compensation, and
pharmacy management services.
 
     On October 11, 1995, the Company completed its acquisition of EMPHESYS
Financial Group, Inc. ("EMPHESYS"), for a total purchase price of approximately
$650 million. The aggregate purchase price was funded through available cash of
$400 million and bank borrowings of $250 million. EMPHESYS is a leading provider
of a broad range of managed care products to small businesses. EMPHESYS, at the
date of acquisition, had approximately 1.3 million medical members, including
216,900 administrative services ("ASO") members. The information contained
herein includes the results of operations of EMPHESYS for the period from
October 11, 1995 through December 31, 1995.
 
     The Company's HMO and PPO products are marketed primarily to employer and
other groups ("Commercial") as well as Medicare and Medicaid-eligible
individuals. The Company's Commercial products are marketed in 40 states and the
District of Columbia. At December 31, 1995, the Company had a total of 2,883,900
fully-insured Commercial customers with an average group size of 29 members.
Commercial membership at December 31, 1995, includes 49,000 Medicaid-eligible
individuals. The products marketed to Medicare-eligible individuals are either
HMO products that provide health care services which include all Medicare
benefits, and in certain circumstances, additional health care services that are
not included in traditional Medicare benefits ("Medicare risk") or indemnity
insurance policies that supplement Medicare benefits ("Medicare supplement"). At
December 31, 1995, the Company had 310,400 Medicare risk members and 115,000
Medicare supplement members. The Company also offers ASO to employers who self-
insure their employee health benefits. At December 31, 1995, the Company
provided claims processing, utilization review and other administrative services
to approximately 495,100 members.
 
     On November 28, 1995, the Company was awarded a potential five-year, $3.8
billion contract (a one-year contract renewable annually for up to four
additional years at approximately $750 million per year) with the United States
Department of Defense to provide services under the Civilian Health and Medical
Program of the Uniformed Services (the "CHAMPUS Contract"). Under the CHAMPUS
Contract, which is expected
 

 
to begin July 1, 1996, the Company will provide managed health care services to
approximately 1 million eligible military beneficiaries in eight southeastern
states.
 
COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
 
  HMOs
 
     An HMO provides prepaid health care services to its members through primary
care and specialty physicians employed by the HMO at facilities owned by the
HMO, and/or through a network of independent primary care and specialty
physicians and other health care providers who contract with the HMO to furnish
such services. Primary care physicians include internists, family practitioners
and pediatricians. Generally, access to specialty physicians and other health
care providers must be approved by the member's primary care physician. These
other health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes,
home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers,
diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent
care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. Because access to these
other health care providers must be approved by the primary care physician, the
HMO product is the most restrictive form of managed care.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company owned and operated 17 HMOs, which
contract with approximately 40,800 physicians (including approximately 10,200
primary care physicians) and 630 hospitals. In addition, the Company has
approximately 2,410 contracts with other providers to provide services to HMO
members. The Company also employed approximately 500 physicians in its staff
model HMOs at December 31, 1995.
 
     An HMO member, typically through the member's employer, pays a monthly fee
which generally covers, with minimal co-payments, health care services received
from or approved by the member's primary care physician. For the year ended
December 31, 1995, Commercial HMO premium revenues totaled approximately $2
billion or 43 percent of the Company's premium revenues. Approximately $266
million of the Company's Commercial premium revenues for the year ended December
31, 1995, were derived from contracts with the United States Office of Personnel
Management ("OPM") under which the Company provides health care benefits to
approximately 176,800 federal civilian employees and their dependents. Pursuant
to these contracts, payments made by OPM may be retrospectively adjusted
downward by OPM if an audit discloses that a comparable product was offered by
the Company to a similar size subscriber group using a rating formula which
resulted in a lower premium rate than that offered to OPM. Management believes
that any retrospective adjustments as a result of OPM audits will not have a
material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.
 
  PPOs
 
     PPO products include many elements of managed health care. PPOs are also
similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with the
freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. In a PPO, the
member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health
care providers which have contracted with the PPO to provide services at
favorable rates. In the event a member chooses not to use a participating health
care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of the
provider's fees.
 
     At December 31, 1995, approximately 44,400 physicians and 700 hospitals
contracted directly with the Company to provide services to PPO members. The
Company also has approximately 2,400 contracts (including certain contracts
which also service the Company's HMOs) with other providers to provide services
to PPO members. In addition, the Company has access to 28 leased provider
networks throughout the country which provide services to approximately 80
percent of EMPHESYS' PPO membership.
 
     For the year ended December 31, 1995, premium revenues from Commercial PPOs
totaled $831 million or 18 percent of the Company's premium revenues. During the
year ended December 31, 1995, the Company's PPO membership increased
approximately 1.2 million members to approximately 1.4 million members,
primarily as a result of the acquisition of EMPHESYS. Management believes PPO
premium revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996 will become a more
significant percentage of overall Company premium revenues.
 

 
     Over the previous four years, changes in the Company's Commercial premium
rates have ranged between approximately an 11 percent increase for the year
ended December 31, 1992, to approximately a 2 percent decrease for the year
ended December 31, 1995. Given the continued competitive environment, the
Company expects that 1996 Commercial premium rates will decline approximately 1
percent from 1995 levels.
 
MEDICAID PRODUCT
 
     Medicaid is a state-operated program which utilizes both state and federal
funding to provide health care services to low-income residents. Each state
which chooses to do so develops through a state specific regulatory agency, a
Medicaid managed care initiative which must be approved by the federal
government's Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA"). HCFA requires that
Medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the
amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. States
currently use either a formal proposal process reviewing many bidders or award
individual contracts to qualified bidders which apply for entry to the program.
In either case, the contractual relationship with the state is generally for a
one-year period. Management believes that the risks associated with
participation in a state Medicaid managed care initiative are similar to the
risks associated with the Medicare risk product discussed below. In both
instances, the Company receives a fixed monthly payment from a government agency
for which it is required to provide managed health care services to enrolled
members. For the year ended December 31, 1995, premium revenues from the
Company's Medicaid products totaled $51 million or 1 percent of the Company's
premium revenues. At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 49,000
Medicaid members in three markets. Due to the increased emphasis on state health
care reform, management believes that more states will utilize a managed care
product in their Medicaid programs.
 
MEDICARE PRODUCTS
 
     Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and
some disabled persons certain hospital and medical insurance benefits, which
include hospitalization benefits for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus
a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Each Medicare-eligible individual is
entitled to receive inpatient hospital care ("Part A") without the payment of
any premium, but is required to pay a premium to the federal government, which
is adjusted annually, to be eligible for physician and other services ("Part
B").
 
     Even though participating in both Part A and Part B of the traditional
Medicare program, beneficiaries are still required to pay certain deductible and
co-insurance amounts. They may, if they choose, supplement their Medicare
coverage by purchasing Medicare supplement policies which pay these deductibles
and co-insurance amounts. Many of these policies also cover other services (such
as prescription drugs) which are not included in Medicare coverage.
 
     Certain managed care companies which operate HMOs contract with HCFA to
provide medical benefits to Medicare-eligible individuals residing in the
geographic areas in which their HMOs operate in exchange for a fixed monthly
payment per member from HCFA. Individuals who elect to participate in these
Medicare risk programs are relieved of the obligation to pay some or all of the
deductible or co-insurance amounts but are generally required to use exclusively
the services provided by the HMO and are required to pay a Part B premium to the
Medicare program. The enrollee pays the HMO a premium only in cases where the
HMO provides additional benefits and where competitive market conditions permit.
 
  Medicare Risk
 
     A Medicare risk product involves a contract between an HMO and HCFA
pursuant to which HCFA makes a fixed monthly payment to the HMO on behalf of
each Medicare-eligible individual who chooses to enroll for coverage in the HMO.
Membership may be terminated by the member upon 30 days' notice. The fixed
monthly payment is determined and adjusted annually by HCFA, and takes into
account, among other things, the cost of providing medical care in the
geographic area where the member resides.
 
     The Company markets a variety of Medicare risk HMO products. All of these
products provide an enrolled individual with all of the benefits covered by the
Medicare program but relieve the enrolled individual of the obligation to pay
deductibles and co-insurance that would otherwise apply. Some of these products
also
 

 
provide additional benefits not covered by Medicare, such as vision and dental
care services and prescription drugs.
 
     Where competitive conditions permit, the Company charges a premium to
members (in addition to the payment from HCFA) for some of its Medicare risk
products. At December 31, 1995, approximately 65,500 members in 13 markets were
paying premiums which totaled $38 million for the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
     The Company provides Medicare risk services under 10 contracts with HCFA
("HCFA Contracts") in 14 markets. During 1995, the Company was approved by HCFA
to sell its Medicare risk product in Jacksonville and Tampa, Florida as well as
Houston, Texas and Las Vegas, Nevada. Management believes that additional
opportunities exist because only approximately 7 percent of the country's
Medicare-eligible beneficiaries are enrolled in managed care programs similar to
those of the Company. The Company intends to pursue these additional
opportunities in under-penetrated markets.
 
     At December 31, 1995, HCFA Contracts covered approximately 310,400 Medicare
risk members for which the Company received HCFA revenues of approximately $1.5
billion or 33 percent of the Company's premium revenues for the year ended
December 31, 1995. At December 31, 1995, one such HCFA Contract covered
approximately 209,800 members in Florida. For the year ended December 31, 1995,
this Florida HCFA Contract accounted for premium revenues of $1.1 billion, which
represented 73 percent of the Company's HCFA revenues and 24 percent of the
Company's total premium revenues. Each HCFA Contract is renewed each December 31
unless HCFA or the Company terminates it upon at least 90 days' notice prior
thereto. Management believes termination of the HCFA Contract covering the
members in Florida would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
revenues, profitability and business prospects.
 
     Current legislative proposals are being considered which include
modification of future reimbursement rates under the Medicare program and
proposals which encourage the use of managed health care for Medicare
beneficiaries. Management is unable to predict the outcome of these proposals or
the impact they may have on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. Changes in the Medicare risk program as a result of
legislative change, such as a reduction in payments by HCFA or mandated
increases in benefits without corresponding increases in HCFA payments, could
also have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, profitability and
business prospects.
 
     The Company's average rate of increase under the 1996 HCFA Contracts is
approximately 8 to 9 percent, a significant portion of which is expected to be
paid to the Company's providers. Over the last five years, annual increases have
ranged from as low as 3 percent in January 1994 to as high as 12 percent in
January 1993, with an average of approximately 7 percent, including the January
1996 increase.
 
  Medicare Supplement
 
     The Company's Medicare supplement product is an insurance policy which pays
for hospital deductibles, co-payments and co-insurance for which an individual
enrolled in the traditional Medicare program is responsible.
 
     Under the terms of existing Medicare supplement policies, the Company may
not reduce or cancel the benefits contracted for by policyholders. These
policies are renewable annually by the insured at the Company's prevailing
rates, which may increase subject to approval by appropriate state insurance
regulators.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company provided Medicare supplement benefits to
approximately 115,000 members. Premium revenues derived from this product for
the year ended December 31, 1995, totaled $102 million.
 
CHAMPUS
 
     In 1993, the Company established Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc.
(a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company), to bid on contracts to provide
managed care services to active and retired military
 

 
personnel and their dependents. In November 1995, the Company was awarded its
first contract covering approximately 1 million eligible military beneficiaries
in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Eastern
Louisiana, and a portion of Arkansas. The Company has subcontracted with third
parties to provide certain administration and specialty services under the
contract. Subsequent to a transition period, expected to be completed by July 1,
1996, three health benefit options will be made available to CHAMPUS
beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may
enroll in a point-of-service plan or take advantage of reduced co-payments by
using a network of preferred providers.
 
     Subsequent to the award of the contract to the Company, the award was
protested with the General Accounting Office. Protests under similar contracts
have historically been commonplace, although a large majority of the protests
have been disallowed. Management is unable to predict the outcome of the
protest.
 
     The use of managed care under CHAMPUS is a new and evolving program and is
the Company's first endeavor operating under the Department of Defense
guidelines. Management is unable to determine the Company's degree of success in
managing the implementation and delivery of services under the CHAMPUS Contract,
and what effect, if any, this contract may have on the Company's results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
     The Company continues to actively seek opportunities where it can provide
managed care services to beneficiaries of federal and state programs, including
other CHAMPUS contracts.
 
OTHER RELATED PRODUCTS
 
     The Company offers various specialty and administrative services products
including group life, dental, disability income, and workers' compensation
services. Specialty product membership at December 31, 1995, totaled
approximately 1.9 million members including 602,900 members for which the
Company provides administrative services. Specialty administrative membership
includes dental, workers' compensation, flexible benefit and purchasing pool
administration services. Total premiums and other income related to these
specialty and administrative services products were $85 million for the year
ended December 31, 1995. The Company also operates a prescription drug
management service which administers drug benefit programs for various HMOs and
PPOs, including those of the Company.
 
PROVIDER ARRANGEMENTS
 
     The Company's HMOs contract with individual or groups of primary care
physicians, generally for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month
fee called a "capitation" payment. These contracts typically obligate primary
care physicians to provide or arrange for the provision of all covered managed
health care services to HMO members, including services provided by specialty
physicians and other providers. The capitation payment does not vary with the
nature or extent of services arranged for or provided to the member. The degree
to which the Company uses capitation arrangements varies by provider. The
Company also employs approximately 500 physicians in markets where it operates
staff model HMOs. In order to control costs, improve quality and create
comprehensive networks, the Company also contracts with medical specialists and
other providers to which a primary care physician may refer a member. Typically,
payments by the Company to these specialists and other providers reduce the
ultimate payment that otherwise would be made to a primary care physician. The
Company remains financially responsible for the provision of or payment for such
services if a primary care or specialty physician fails to perform his or her
obligations under the contract.
 
     The focal point for cost control in the Company's HMOs is the primary care
physician, whether employed or under contract, who provides services and
controls utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving
hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. Cost control
is further achieved by directly negotiating provider discounts. Cost control in
the Company's PPOs is achieved primarily by establishing a cost-effective
network of participating health care providers and providing incentives for
members to use such providers. With respect to both HMO and PPO products, cost
control is further achieved through the use of a utilization review system
designed to allow only necessary hospital admissions, lengths of stay and
necessary and appropriate medical procedures.
 

 
     The Company's HMOs and PPOs generally contract for hospital services under
per-diem arrangements for inpatient hospital services and discounted
fee-for-service arrangements for outpatient services. During the year ended
December 31, 1995, approximately 41 percent of the Company's total medical costs
were for services provided to its members in hospitals or related facilities.
Approximately 9 percent of these medical costs were for services provided in
hospitals ("Galen Hospitals") which were spun off by the Company (the "Spinoff")
on March 1, 1993, and are now a part of Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation
("Columbia/HCA"). Following the Spinoff, these services were provided pursuant
to a three-year agreement with the Galen Hospitals, which expired March 1, 1996.
The Company has replaced the original agreement with various individual market
agreements with subsidiaries of Columbia/HCA for the provisions of services at
Columbia/HCA hospitals (including the Galen Hospitals). Management believes the
inpatient and outpatient hospital rates under the new agreements reflect current
competitive market conditions.
 
QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND CUSTOMER SERVICE
 
     Physician participation in the Company's HMOs and PPOs is conditioned upon
the physician meeting the Company's requirements concerning the physician's
professional qualifications. When considering whether to contract with a
physician, the Company performs rigorous, on-going credentialing verifications
and peer review that meet both regulatory and accrediting agency standards.
 
     The Company has a program in place to monitor important aspects of HMO
plan-wide service and quality indicators with oversight by a senior management
committee. Such indicators as credentialing, quality concerns, customer service,
disenrollment, and satisfaction are measured against standards. Another measure
of quality is the reporting of Health Plan Employer Data Information Sets
("HEDIS") which the Company has been reporting since June 1994. HEDIS is useful
to purchasers of managed health care services to measure individual health plan
quality and service. The Company has also implemented a monthly reporting
process which monitors levels of customer satisfaction across all the Company's
plans. Indicators used to measure customer satisfaction include satisfaction
surveys, types and number of grievances, timeliness of claims processing and
reasons for customer disenrollment.
 
HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION ACCREDITATION
 
     With the increasing significance of managed care in the health care
industry, several independent organizations have been formed with the purpose of
responding to external demands for accountability over the managed care
industry. The organizations utilized by the Company are the National Committee
for Quality Assurance ("NCQA") and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO"). NCQA performs site reviews of standards
established for quality assurance, credentialing, utilization management,
medical records, preventive services and member rights and responsibilities.
JCAHO reviews rights, responsibilities and ethics, continuum of care, education
and communication, leadership, management of information and human resources and
network performance. Both organizations evaluate the mechanisms the organization
has established to ensure continuous quality improvement.
 
     In the states of Kansas and Florida, where the Company operates in seven
markets, accreditation is mandatory and is generally required for licensure. At
December 31, 1995, five of these markets had received various levels of
accreditation and in February 1996, the Company was notified that Humana Medical
Plan's South Florida market received full accreditation by NCQA. The Company has
now received full accreditation from NCQA in the Florida markets of South
Florida, Orlando and Daytona. The Company has received a three-year
accreditation from JCAHO in Ft. Walton. The Jacksonville market which was
previously denied accreditation is awaiting results from the NCQA review. The
Company's Kansas City market is operating under a one-year NCQA accreditation
and has a new accreditation status pending. The Company is also currently
developing a plan for accreditation of its Milwaukee, Wisconsin plan which was
previously denied accreditation (prior to purchase in December 1994). Management
believes the South Florida, Jacksonville and Milwaukee denials have not had a
material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.
 

 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 
     The Company's managed care health plans use a single set of integrated
information systems developed and/or customized specifically to meet the
Company's needs and to allow for aggregation of data and comparison across
markets. These information systems support marketing, sales, underwriting,
contract administration, billing, financial and other administrative functions
as well as customer service, appointment scheduling, authorization and referral
management, concurrent review, physician capitation and claims administration,
provider management, quality management and utilization review.
 
     Key to the Company's information systems is the decision support database,
used by market office and corporate personnel for such items as physician
profiling, utilization review, quality assessment, member satisfaction
measurement and employer reporting. Clinical software is used as well to assess
appropriateness of medical care provided to the Company's members. The Company's
information systems are continually being upgraded to support new products in an
integrated manner as well as to take advantage of the latest advances in
technology.
 
MARKETING
 
     Individuals become members of the Company's Commercial HMOs and PPOs
through their employer or other groups which typically offer employees or
members a selection of managed health care products, pay for all or part of the
premiums and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees.
The Company attempts to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of
managed health care benefits by offering HMO and PPO products that provide
cost-effective quality care consistent with the needs and expectations of the
employees or members.
 
     The Company uses various methods to market its Commercial and Medicare
products, including television, radio, telemarketing and mailings. At December
31, 1995, the Company used approximately 32,800 independently licensed brokers
and agents and 380 licensed employees to sell the Company's Commercial products.
Many of the Company's employer group customers are represented by insurance
brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of
health care products. The Company generally pays brokers a commission based on
premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume.
 
     In addition to the above, at December 31, 1995, approximately 40
independently licensed brokers and 530 employed sales representatives, who are
each paid a salary and/or per member commission, marketed the Company's Medicaid
and Medicare products. The Company also uses approximately 400 telemarketing
representatives who assist in the marketing of Medicaid and Medicare products by
making appointments for broker/sales representatives with prospective members.
 
     The following table lists the Company's medical membership at December 31,
1995, by state and product:
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Includes 49,000 Medicaid members at December 31, 1995, located in Wisconsin,
    Illinois and Missouri/Kansas.
 

 
     The Company's 25 largest group contracts at December 31, 1995, accounted
for approximately 21 percent of total Commercial membership. No one group
contract accounted for as much as 5 percent of the Company's Commercial product
premium revenues; however, certain employer groups accounted for a significant
percentage of Commercial insurance premiums in certain markets. The loss of one
or more of these contracts in a particular market could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operations in that market.
 
RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, the Company
determines the risk it is willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge
for its Commercial products. In most instances, employer and other groups must
meet the Company's underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with
the Company for coverage. Small group reform laws in some states have imposed
regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance
products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged
based upon assessment of health conditions.
 
     Underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with Medicare risk
HMO products because of HCFA regulations that require the Company to accept all
Medicare-eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical
history. The Company also is not permitted to employ underwriting criteria for
the Medicaid product but rather follows HCFA and state requirements. In
addition, with respect to the CHAMPUS Contract, no underwriting techniques are
employed because the Company must accept all eligible beneficiaries that choose
to participate.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The managed health care industry is highly competitive and contracts for
the sale of Commercial products are generally bid or renewed annually. The
Company's competitors vary by local market and include Blue Cross/Blue Shield
(including HMOs and PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans), national
insurance companies and other HMOs and PPOs. Many of the Company's competitors
have larger membership in local markets or greater financial resources. In
addition, provider-based networks which could compete directly with the Company
may increase in size and significance. The Company's ability to sell its
products and to retain customers is or may be influenced by such factors as
benefits, pricing, contract terms, number and quality of participating
physicians and other managed health care providers, utilization review, claims
processing, administrative efficiency, relationships with agents, quality of
customer service, and accreditation results.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     Of the Company's 17 licensed HMO subsidiaries, eight are qualified under
the Federal Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973, as amended. Five of
these federally qualified subsidiaries are parties to HCFA contracts to provide
Medicare risk HMO products.
 
     To obtain federal qualification, an HMO must meet certain requirements,
including conformance with financial criteria, a standard method of rate
setting, a comprehensive benefit package, and prohibition of medical
underwriting of individuals. In certain markets, and for certain products, the
Company operates HMOs that are not federally qualified because this provides
greater flexibility with respect to product design and pricing than is possible
for federally qualified HMOs.
 
     HCFA audits Medicare risk HMOs at least biannually and may perform other
reviews more frequently to determine compliance with federal regulations and
contractual obligations. These audits include review of the HMO's administration
and management (including management information and data collection systems),
fiscal stability, utilization management and incentive arrangements with
providers, health services delivery, quality assurance, marketing, enrollment
and disenrollment activity, claims processing, and complaint systems. HCFA
regulations require quarterly and annual submission of financial statements and
restrict the number of Medicare risk and Medicaid members to no more than the
HMO's Commercial membership in a specified service area. HCFA regulations also
require independent review of medical records and quality of care, review and
approval by HCFA of all advertising, marketing and communication materials, and
independent review of all denied claims and service complaints which are not
resolved in favor of a member.
 

 
     During 1994, HCFA performed an investigation of the Company's South Florida
health plan. HCFA's findings, which focused primarily on the collection and use
of data, indicated the plan was not fully meeting HCFA requirements in the areas
of utilization management, quality assurance and availability/accessibility. In
July 1995, HCFA notified the Company that it had successfully restored
compliance with these requirements.
 
     The Company's Medicaid product is regulated by the applicable state agency
in the state which the Company sells its Medicaid product and is subject to
periodic reviews by these agencies. The reviews are similar in nature to those
performed by HCFA.
 
     Laws in each of the states in which the Company operates its HMOs and PPOs
regulate the Company's operations, including the scope of benefits, rate
formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance,
enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. The PPO
products offered by the Company are generally sold under insurance licenses
issued by the applicable state insurance regulators. The Company's HMOs and PPOs
are required to be in compliance with certain minimum capital requirements.
These requirements must be satisfied by investing in approved investments that
generally cannot be used for other purposes. Under state laws, the Company's
HMOs and PPOs are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and
contractual compliance, and its HMOs are audited for compliance with health
services standards by respective state departments of health. Most states' laws
require such audits to be performed at least triennially.
 
     The Company and its licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under
state insurance holding company regulations. These regulations require among
other things, prior approval and/or notice of certain material transactions, and
the filing of various financial and operational reports.
 
     Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with all
governmental laws and regulations affecting the Company's business.
 
HEALTH CARE REFORM
 
     There continues to be diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at
both the federal and state levels to address aspects of the nation's health care
system.
 
  National
 
     Although subsequently vetoed by the President, during 1995, Congress passed
a budget reconciliation package which provided for significant changes to the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, including offering Medicare beneficiaries
additional health plan alternatives such as HMOs, PPOs and point-of-service
plans. Management believes that because of on-going concerns over health care
accessibility and the cost of the Medicare and Medicaid programs in their
current form, there will be continued legislative efforts to reform health care.
Current legislative proposals being considered include health insurance
portability, guaranteed group coverage, limits on medical malpractice awards,
modification of future reimbursement rates under the Medicare program, proposals
that would encourage provider-based networks to compete directly with licensed
insurers and HMOs, and proposals which encourage the use of managed health care
for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.
 
  State
 
     Legislation enacted in some states has included, among other things,
universal access, employer purchasing pools and statewide purchasing alliances.
Other managed care legislation which some states have adopted and others have
considered include any willing provider, laws that restrict the ability of
managed care companies to limit their networks, guaranteed renewal, portability,
rating restrictions, standardization of managed care alternatives, mandatory
lengths of stay, direct access to specialists, and freedom of choice
requirements.
 
     Management believes that managed care and health care in general will
continue to be scrutinized and may lead to additional legislative health care
reform initiatives. Management is unable to predict how existing federal or
state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws
or regulations affecting the Company's businesses may be enacted or proposed,
when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new
laws and regulations will have on the Company's revenues, profitability and
business prospects.
 

 
OTHER BUSINESSES
 
  Hospital
 
     The Company owns a 170-bed hospital in Lexington, Kentucky, which provides
care primarily to members of the Company's managed care plans in Lexington. The
Company has contracted with an independent hospital management company, whereby
effective March 1, 1995, all operational functions of the hospital are managed
by the management company.
 
  Professional Liability Risks
 
     The Company insures substantially all of its professional liability risks
through a wholly owned Vermont subsidiary (the "Subsidiary"). The annual
premiums paid to the Subsidiary are determined by independent actuaries. The
Subsidiary reinsures levels of coverage for losses in excess of its retained
limits with various unrelated insurance carriers.
 
  Centralized Management Services
 
     Centralized management services are provided to each health plan from the
Company's headquarters. These services include management information systems,
product administration, financing, personnel, development, accounting, legal
advice, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management,
actuarial, underwriting, and claims processing.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 16,800 employees of
which approximately 1,300 employees of the Company were covered by collective
bargaining agreements. The Company has not experienced any work stoppages and
believes it has good relations with its employees.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     The Company owns its principal executive office, which is located in the
Humana Building, 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202.
 
     The Company provides medical services in owned or leased medical centers
ranging in size from approximately 1,200 to 80,000 square feet. The Company's
administrative market offices are generally leased, with square footage ranging
from 500 to 75,000. The following chart lists the location of properties by
state used in the operation of the Company at December 31, 1995:
 

 
     In addition, the Company owns buildings in Louisville, Kentucky, San
Antonio, Texas, and Green Bay, Wisconsin, and leases facilities in Jacksonville,
Florida, all of which are used for customer service and claims processing. The
Louisville and Green Bay facilities also perform enrollment processing and other
corporate functions.
 
     The Company also owns a hospital and medical office building in Lexington,
Kentucky.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     1. A class action law suit styled Mary Forsyth, et al v. Humana Inc., et
        al, Case #CV-5-89-249-PMP (L.R.L.), (now restyled Marietta Cade, et al
        v. Humana Health Insurance of Nevada, Inc., et al) was filed on March
        29, 1989, in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada
        (the "Forsyth"
 

 
case). There have been no material changes since those described in the
Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1994.
 
            Two other lawsuits involving allegations similar to those in the
       Forsyth case have been filed in United States District Courts in Texas. A
       purported class action suit which seeks to represent nationwide classes,
       styled James Taylor et al. v. Humana Health Insurance et al was filed in
       the Southern District in Corpus Christi, Texas on February 10, 1995. On
       September 11, 1995, another purported class action suit, styled Del Bruns
       v. Humana Insurance Company (the "Bruns" case), was filed in the Eastern
       District in Marshall, Texas. The Bruns case seeks to represent nationwide
       classes of insureds other than those in Nevada and Florida.
 
     2. On April 22, 1993, an alleged stockholder of the Company filed a
        purported shareholder derivative action in the Court of Chancery of the
        State of Delaware, County of New Castle, styled Lewis v. Austen, et al,
        Civil Action No. 12937. There have been no changes since those described
        in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.
 
     Damages for claims for personal injuries and medical benefit denials are
usual in the Company's business. Personal injury claims are covered by insurance
from the Subsidiary and excess carriers, except to the extent that claimants
seek punitive damages, which may not be covered by insurance if awarded.
Punitive damages generally are not paid where claims are settled and generally
are awarded only where a court determines there has been a willful act or
omission to act.
 
     Management does not believe that any pending actions will have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
     Set forth below are names and ages of all of the current executive officers
of the Company as of March 1, 1996, their positions, date of election to such
position and the date first elected an officer of the Company:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Elected an officer of a predecessor corporation in 1961.
 
(2) Mr. Hipwell was initially elected an officer of the Company in 1990 and
    previously served in his present capacity since July 1992. Effective with
    the Spinoff, he became Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Galen
    Health Care Inc. ("Galen"). Mr. Hipwell returned to the Company in January
    1994 and was named Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company
    on June 15, 1994.
 
(3) Mr. Wolf was elected an officer of the Company at the time of the
    acquisition of EMPHESYS. Mr. Wolf has been President and Chief Operating
    Officer of EMPHESYS (now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) since
    November 1994. Mr. Wolf was named Executive Vice President for Employers
    Health
 

 
    Insurance (a wholly owned subsidiary of EMPHESYS) in 1993 and was named
    Senior Vice President for Employers Health Insurance in 1990 for Marketing,
    Sales and Business Development.
 
     Executive officers are elected annually by the Company's Board of Directors
and serve until their successors are elected or until resignation or removal.
There are no family relationships among any of the directors or executive
officers of the Company, except that Mr. Jones is the father of David A. Jones,
Jr., a director of the Company. Except for Mr. Hipwell and Mr. Wolf, all of the
above-named executive officers have been employees of the Company for more than
five consecutive years.
 
                                    PART II
 
     Information for Items 5 through 8 of this report, which appears in the 1995
Annual Report to Stockholders as indicated on the following table, is
incorporated by reference herein in this report and filed as an exhibit hereto:
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by this Item other than the information set forth
in Part I under the Section entitled "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY," is
herein incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 9, 1996, appearing
under the caption "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY FOR 1996" of such Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 9, 1996, appearing under the caption "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION OF
THE COMPANY" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 9, 1996, appearing under the caption "SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF COMPANY COMMON STOCK" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 9, 1996 appearing under the caption "CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH
MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS" of such Proxy Statement.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) The financial statements, financial statement schedules and exhibits
         set forth below are filed as part of this report.
 

 
        (1) Financial Statements -- The response to this portion of Item 14 is
           submitted as Item 8 of this report.
 
        (2) Financial Statement Schedules
 
           All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, not
           required or because the required information is included in the
           consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
        (3) Exhibits:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(w) are compensatory plans or
management contracts.
 

 

 
- ---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(w) are compensatory plans or
management contracts.
 

 

 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K:
 
     On October 25, 1995, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K regarding the
acquisition of EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc. ("EMPHESYS"), which was
consummated on October 11, 1995. The Form 8-K included certain unaudited
financial statements extracted from EMPHESYS' Form 10-Q for the period ended
June 30, 1995 and EMPHESYS' audited financial statements included in their
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994. The Form 8-K
also included unaudited pro forma financial statements as required by Article 11
of Regulation S-X.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
                                          HUMANA INC.
 
                                          By: /s/ W. ROGER DRURY
                                             -----------------------
                                             W. Roger Drury
                                             Chief Financial Officer
 
                                          Date: March 29, 1996
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 
                                Exhibit Index
                                -------------

 
- ---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(w) are compensatory plans or
management contracts.
 


                                Exhibit Index
                                -------------

 

 
- ---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(w) are compensatory plans or
management contracts.
 

                                 Exhibit Index
                                 -------------


 


