
10-K405
HUMANA INC. FORM 10-K



 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
(X)              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
 
                                       OR
 
( )            TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM             TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5975
 
                                  HUMANA INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 502-580-1000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of the Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in the Registrant's definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    X
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                      YES  X                        NO
 
     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of March 1, 1995, was $3,623,515,292 calculated using the average
price on such date of $23.875. The number of shares outstanding of the
Registrant's Common Stock as of March 1, 1995, was 161,680,695.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Part II and portions of Part IV incorporate herein by reference the
Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders; Part III incorporates herein by
reference portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held
May 11, 1995.
 
     The Exhibit Index begins on page 13.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Humana Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in 1961. Its principal
executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky
40202 and its telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000. As used
herein, the terms "the Company" or "Humana" include Humana Inc. and its
subsidiaries.
 
     On March 1, 1993, Humana separated its managed care health plan and
acute-care hospital businesses into two independent publicly-held companies (the
"Spinoff"). The Spinoff was effected through the distribution to Humana
stockholders of all the outstanding shares of common stock of a new hospital
company, Galen Health Care, Inc. ("Galen") (now a part of Columbia/HCA
Healthcare Corporation). The Company retained and continues to operate the
managed care health plan business.
 
     Since 1983, the Company has offered managed health care products which
integrate management with the delivery of health care services through a network
of providers who share financial risk or who have incentives to deliver
cost-effective medical services. These products are marketed primarily through
health maintenance organizations ("HMOs") and preferred provider organizations
("PPOs") that encourage, and in most HMO products require, use of contracting
providers. HMOs and PPOs also control health care costs by various means,
including utilization controls such as pre-admission approval for hospital
inpatient services and pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures.
 
     The Company's HMO and PPO products are primarily marketed to employer and
other groups ("Commercial") and Medicaid and Medicare-eligible individuals. The
Company's Commercial products are marketed in 14 states and the District of
Columbia. At December 31, 1994, the Company had a total of 20,700 Commercial
customers with an average group size of 35 per customer. Commercial membership
at December 31, 1994, includes 27,500 Medicaid-eligible individuals. The
products marketed to Medicare-eligible individuals are either HMO products that
provide health care services which include all Medicare benefits, and in certain
circumstances, additional health care services that are not included in Medicare
benefits ("Medicare risk") or indemnity insurance policies that supplement
Medicare benefits ("Medicare supplement"). At December 31, 1994, the Company had
287,400 Medicare risk members and 131,700 Medicare supplement members.
 
COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
 
  HMOs
 
     An HMO provides prepaid health care services to its members through primary
care and specialty physicians employed by the HMO at facilities owned by the
HMO, and/or through a network of independent primary care and specialty
physicians and other health care providers who contract with the HMO to furnish
such services. Primary care physicians include internists, family practitioners
and pediatricians. Generally, access to specialty physicians and other health
care providers must be approved by the member's primary care physician. These
other health care providers include, among others, hospitals, nursing homes,
home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance abuse centers,
diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers, dentists, urgent
care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. Because access to these
other health care providers must be approved by the primary care physician, the
HMO product is the most restrictive form of managed care.
 
     At December 31, 1994, the Company owned and operated 15 HMOs, which
contract with approximately 28,700 physicians (including approximately 6,900
primary care physicians) and 460 hospitals. In addition, the Company has
approximately 1,300 contracts with other providers to provide services to HMO
members. The Company also employed 370 physicians in its HMOs at December 31,
1994.
 
     An HMO member, typically through the member's employer, pays a monthly fee
which generally covers, with minimal co-payments, health care services received
from or approved by the member's primary care
 

 
physician. For the year ended December 31, 1994, Commercial HMO premium revenues
totaled approximately $1.7 billion or 47% of the Company's premium revenues.
Approximately $250 million of the Company's Commercial premium revenues for the
year ended December 31, 1994, were derived from contracts with the United States
Office of Personnel Management ("OPM") under which the Company provides health
care benefits to approximately 174,500 federal civilian employees and their
dependents. Pursuant to these contracts, payments made by OPM may be
retrospectively adjusted downward by OPM if an audit discloses that a comparable
product was offered by the Company to a similar size subscriber group using a
rating formula which resulted in a lower premium rate than that offered to OPM.
The Company has undergone audits in certain markets. Management believes that
any retrospective adjustments as a result of OPM audits will not have a material
impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
  PPOs
 
     PPO products include many elements of managed health care. PPOs are also
similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with the
freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. In a PPO, the
member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health
care providers which have contracted with the PPO to provide services at
favorable rates. In the event a member chooses not to use a participating health
care provider, the member may be required to pay a portion of the provider's
fees.
 
     At December 31, 1994, approximately 33,100 physicians and 520 hospitals
contracted with the Company to provide services to PPO members. In addition, the
Company has approximately 1,500 contracts with other providers to provide
services to PPO members.
 
     For the year ended December 31, 1994, premium revenues from Commercial PPOs
totaled $359 million or 10 percent of the Company's premium revenues.
 
     Over the previous four years, the Company's Commercial premium rate
increases have ranged between approximately 11 percent for the year ended
December 31, 1992, to approximately 3 percent for the year ended December 31,
1994. Given the competitive environment, the Company expects 1995 Commercial
premium rates will remain the same as in 1994.
 
MEDICAID PRODUCT
 
     Medicaid is a state-operated program which utilizes both state and federal
funding to provide health care services to low-income residents. Each state
which chooses to do so, develops through a state specific regulatory agency, a
Medicaid managed care initiative which must be approved by the federal
government's Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA"). HCFA requires that
Medicaid managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the
amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. States
currently use either a formal proposal process reviewing many bidders or award
individual contracts to qualified bidders which apply for entry to the program.
In either case, the contractual relationship with the state is generally for a
one-year period. The Company believes that the risks associated with
participation in a state Medicaid managed care initiative are similar to the
risks associated with the Medicare risk product discussed below. In both
instances, the Company receives a fixed monthly payment from a government agency
for which it is required to provide managed health care services to a member.
During the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1994, the Company received approval
in two states (Florida and Illinois) to market a Medicaid product. In December
1994, the Company acquired CareNetwork, Inc. ("CareNetwork"), a federally
qualified HMO located in Milwaukee and Southeastern Wisconsin which has 25,900
Medicaid members.
 
MEDICARE PRODUCTS
 
     Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and
some disabled persons certain hospital and medical insurance benefits, which
include hospitalization benefits for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus
a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Each Medicare eligible individual is
entitled to receive
 

 
inpatient hospital care (Part A) without the payment of any premium, but is
required to pay a premium to the federal government, which is annually adjusted,
to be eligible for physician and other services (Part B).
 
     Even though participating in both Part A and Part B of Medicare,
beneficiaries are still required to pay certain deductible and co-insurance
amounts. They may, if they choose, supplement their Medicare coverage by
purchasing policies which pay these deductibles and co-insurance amounts. Many
of these policies also cover other services (such as prescription drugs) which
are not included in Medicare coverage. These policies are known as Medicare
supplement policies.
 
     Certain managed care companies which operate HMOs contract with HCFA to
provide medical benefits to Medicare-eligible individuals residing in the
geographic areas in which their HMOs operate in exchange for a fixed monthly
payment per member from HCFA. Individuals who elect to participate in these
Medicare risk programs are relieved of the obligation to pay some or all of the
deductible or co-insurance amounts but are required to use exclusively the
services provided by the HMO. Other than the Part B premium paid by the member
to the Medicare program, the enrollee does not pay the HMO a premium for these
services except where the benefits provided by the HMO exceed the benefits
provided by the Medicare Program.
 
  Medicare Risk
 
     A Medicare risk product involves a contract between an HMO and HCFA
pursuant to which HCFA makes a fixed monthly payment to the HMO on behalf of
each Medicare-eligible individual who chooses to enroll for coverage in the HMO.
Membership may be terminated by the member upon 30 days' notice. The fixed
monthly payment is determined and adjusted annually by HCFA, and takes into
account, among other things, the cost of providing medical care in the
geographic area where the member resides.
 
     The Company markets a variety of Medicare risk HMO products. All of these
products provide an enrolled individual with all of the benefits covered by the
Medicare program but relieve the enrolled individual of the obligation to pay
deductibles and co-insurance that would otherwise apply. Some of these products
also provide additional benefits not covered by Medicare, such as vision and
dental care services and prescription drugs.
 
     Where competitive conditions permit, the Company charges a premium to
members (in addition to the payment from HCFA) for some of its Medicare risk
products. At December 31, 1994, approximately 75,100 members in ten markets were
paying premiums which totaled $43 million for the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
     The Company provides Medicare risk services under seven contracts with HCFA
("HCFA Contracts") in ten markets. At December 31, 1994, HCFA Contracts covered
approximately 287,400 Medicare risk members for which the Company received HCFA
revenues of approximately $1.4 billion or 38 percent of the Company's premium
revenues for the year ended December 31, 1994. At December 31, 1994, one such
HCFA Contract covered approximately 215,400 members in Florida. For the year
ended December 31, 1994, this Florida HCFA Contract accounted for $1.1 billion,
which represented 78 percent of the Company's HCFA revenues and 30 percent of
the Company's total premium revenues. Each HCFA Contract is renewed each
December 31 unless HCFA or the Company terminates it upon at least 90 days'
notice prior thereto. Management believes termination of the HCFA Contract
covering the members in Florida would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's revenues, profitability and business prospects. Moreover, changes in
the Medicare risk program as a result of legislative change, such as a reduction
in payments by HCFA or mandated increases in benefits without corresponding
increases in payments, could also have a material adverse effect on the
Company's revenues, profitability and business prospects.
 
     The Company's average rate of increase under the 1995 HCFA Contracts is
expected to approximate 6 percent. Over the last five years, annual increases
have ranged from as low as 2 percent in January 1991 to as high as 12 percent in
January 1993, with an average of 6 percent.
 

 
  Medicare Supplement
 
     The Company's Medicare supplement product is an insurance policy which pays
for hospital deductibles, co-payments and co-insurance for which the
Medicare-eligible individual is responsible.
 
     Under the terms of existing Medicare supplement policies, the Company may
not reduce or cancel the benefits contracted for by policyholders. These
policies are annually renewable by the insured at the Company's prevailing
rates, which may increase subject to approval by appropriate state insurance
regulators.
 
     At December 31, 1994, the Company provided Medicare supplement benefits to
approximately 131,700 members. Premium revenues derived from this product for
the year ended December 31, 1994, totaled $114 million.
 
PROVIDER ARRANGEMENTS
 
     The Company's HMOs contract with individual or groups of primary care
physicians, generally for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-month
fee called a "capitation" payment. These contracts typically obligate primary
care physicians to provide or arrange for the provision of all covered managed
health care services to HMO members, including services provided by specialty
physicians and other providers. The capitation payment does not vary with the
nature or extent of services arranged for or provided to the member and is
generally designed to shift a portion of the HMO's financial risk to the primary
care physician. However, the degree to which the Company shifts its risk varies
by provider. During the year ended December 31, 1994, approximately 8 percent of
the Company's total medical costs were incurred under primary care capitation
arrangements. The Company also employs 370 physicians in markets where it
operates staff model HMOs. The Company is directly responsible for all services
provided by these employed physicians. During the year ended December 31, 1994,
approximately 9 percent of the Company's total medical costs represented salary
and similar costs incurred in its staff model HMOs. In order to control costs,
improve quality and create comprehensive networks, the Company also contracts
with medical specialists and other providers to which a primary care physician
may refer a member. During the year ended December 31, 1994, approximately 12
percent of the Company's total medical costs were incurred under specialty and
other non-primary care capitation arrangements. Typically, payments by the
Company to these specialists and other providers reduce the ultimate payment
that otherwise would be made to a primary care physician. The Company remains
financially responsible for the provision of or payment for such services if a
primary care or specialty physician fails to perform his or her obligations
under the contract.
 
     The focal point for cost control in the Company's HMOs is the primary care
physician, whether employed or under contract, who provides services and
controls utilization of services by directing or approving hospitalization and
referrals to specialists and other providers. Cost control is further achieved
by directly negotiating provider discounts. Cost control in the Company's PPOs
is achieved primarily by establishing a cost-effective network of participating
health care providers and providing incentives for members to use such
providers. With respect to both HMO and PPO products, cost control is further
achieved through the use of a utilization review system designed to reduce
unnecessary hospital admissions, lengths of stay and unnecessary or
inappropriate medical procedures.
 
     The Company's HMOs and PPOs generally contract for hospital services under
a per diem arrangement for inpatient hospital services and a discounted
fee-for-service arrangement for outpatient services. Effective March 1, 1995,
the Company began the third year of a three-year operating agreement with Galen,
whereby the Company uses the services of Galen's hospitals guaranteeing certain
minimum utilization levels. Rate increases charged for such services are defined
under the terms of the agreement. Commercial product rate increases are limited
to the lesser of the increase in the hospital Consumer Price Index or the
Company's Commercial product premium rate increases, less one percent. Medicare
risk product rate increases approximate the percentage adjustment in HCFA's
market specific hospital payment rate to the Company. Management believes that
the contract rates under the operating agreement are competitive. During the
year ended December 31, 1994, 13 percent of the Company's total medical costs
were incurred in Galen's hospitals while 25 percent were incurred in other
hospitals. Management believes the renegotiation or expiration of the
 

 
operating agreement will not have a material adverse affect on the Company's
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
QUALITY ASSESSMENT
 
     Physician participation in the Company's HMOs and PPOs is conditioned upon
meeting its HMO and PPO requirements concerning the physician's professional
qualifications. When considering whether to contract with a physician, the
Company performs certain credentialing procedures including reviewing licensure,
status of certification by the governing specialty boards and malpractice claims
history.
 
     In addition to ensuring the professional qualifications of its physician
and other providers, the Company regularly monitors various critical indicators
including network access, and quality and service performance measurements. The
Company has also contracted with a third-party vendor to provide software which
aggregates treatment protocols into patterns of care for analyzing the
appropriateness of care and frequency of services provided by the Company and
similar companies. In June 1994, the Company began reporting Health Plan
Employer Data Information Sets (HEDIS). HEDIS will be useful to purchasers of
managed health care services to measure individual health plan quality and
service. Finally, the Company is developing practice guidelines for frequent
membership diagnosis in order to reduce the variation in disease management and
improve the health outcomes of its membership.
 
HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION ACCREDITATION
 
     With the increasing significance of managed care in the health care
industry, several independent organizations have been formed with the purpose of
responding to external demands for accountability over the managed care
industry. One such organization utilized by the Company is the National
Committee for Quality Assurance ("NCQA"). NCQA performs site reviews of
standards established for quality assurance, credentialing, utilization
management and medical records, preventive services and member rights and
evaluates the mechanisms that the organization has established to ensure
continuous quality improvement.
 
     In the states of Kansas and Florida, where the Company operates seven
markets, accreditation is mandatory and is generally required for licensure. At
December 31, 1994, four of the Company's markets have received various levels of
provisional or one year accreditation and three, South Florida, Jacksonville,
Florida, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin (prior to purchase in December 1994), were
denied accreditation. As a result of the accreditation denials in South Florida
and Jacksonville, the Company and the State of Florida have mutually developed a
corrective action process, approved by NCQA, which is intended to address the
issues identified by NCQA which primarily relate to quality data accumulation.
Management believes the Company has substantially corrected all the deficiencies
identified in the review. The Company believes these denials will not have a
material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or cash
flows.
 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 
     The Company's managed care health plans use integrated information systems
developed and/or customized specifically to meet the Company's needs and to
allow for aggregation of data and comparison across markets. These information
systems support marketing, sales, underwriting, contract administration,
billing, financial and other administrative functions as well as customer
service, appointment scheduling, authorization and referral management,
concurrent review, physician capitation and claims administration, provider
management, quality management and utilization review.
 
     Key to the Company's information systems is the decision support database,
used by market office and corporate personnel for such items as provider
profiling, quality assessment, member satisfaction measurement, employer
reporting, and utilization review among many others.
 
     The Company's information systems are continually being upgraded to support
new products in an integrated manner as well as to take advantage of the latest
advances in technology. For example, the Company is currently implementing:
laptop computers for processing information from concurrent reviews at the
bedside, interactive voice response for customer service inquiries, claims
imaging to improve productivity,
 

 
and extensive electronic data interchange between customers, providers and
employees. Future information system initiatives include provider practice
guidelines and outcomes measurement.
 
MARKETING
 
     Individuals become members of the Company's Commercial HMOs and PPOs
through their employer or other groups which typically offer employees or
members a selection of managed health care products, pay for all or part of the
premiums and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees.
The Company attempts to become an employer's or group's exclusive source of
managed health care benefits by offering HMO and PPO products that provide
cost-effective quality care consistent with the needs and expectations of the
employees or members. At December 31, 1994, the Company was an exclusive carrier
for 43 percent of its Commercial customers.
 
     The Company uses various methods to market its Commercial and Medicare
products, including television, radio, telemarketing and mailings. At December
31, 1994, the Company used approximately 2,570 independent licensed brokers and
agents and 170 licensed employees to sell its Commercial products. Many of the
Company's employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and
consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care
products. The Company generally pays brokers a commission based on premiums,
with commissions varying by market and premium volume.
 
     In addition to the above, at December 31, 1994, approximately 300
independent licensed brokers and 370 employed sales representatives, who are
each paid a salary and/or per member commission, marketed the Company's Medicaid
and Medicare products. The Company also uses 290 telemarketing representatives
who assist in the marketing of Medicaid and Medicare products by making
appointments for broker/sales representatives with prospective members.
 
     The following table lists the Company's membership at December 31, 1994, by
state and product:
 

 
---------------
 
(1) Includes 27,500 Medicaid members at December 31, 1994, located in Wisconsin,
    Florida and Illinois.
 
     The Company's 25 largest group contracts at December 31, 1994, accounted
for approximately 33 percent of total Commercial membership. No one group
contract accounted for as much as 5 percent of the Company's Commercial product
premium revenues; however, certain employer groups accounted for a significant
percentage of Commercial insurance premiums in some markets. The loss of one or
more of these contracts in a particular market could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operations in that market.
 

 
RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, the Company
determines the risk it is willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge
for its Commercial products. Employer and other groups must meet the Company's
underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with the Company for
coverage. Underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with Medicare
risk HMO products because of HCFA regulations that require the Company to accept
all eligible Medicare applicants regardless of their health or prior medical
history. The Company also is not permitted to employ underwriting criteria for
the Medicaid product but rather follows HCFA and state requirements.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The managed health care industry is highly competitive and contracts for
the sale of Commercial products are generally bid or renewed annually. The
Company's competitors vary by local market and include Blue Cross/Blue Shield
(including HMOs and PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans), national
insurance companies and other HMOs and PPOs. Many of the Company's competitors
have larger membership in local markets or greater financial resources. The
Company's ability to sell its products and to retain customers is or may be
influenced by such factors as benefits, pricing, contract terms, number and
quality of participating physicians and other managed health care providers,
utilization review, claims processing, administrative efficiency and
accreditation results.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     Of the Company's fifteen licensed HMO subsidiaries, nine are qualified
under the Federal Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973, as amended. Four
of these federally qualified subsidiaries are parties to HCFA Contracts to
provide Medicare risk HMO products.
 
     An HMO which is federally qualified may require employers, with more than
25 employees, that offer health insurance benefits to include federally
qualified HMO products as an option available to their employees. To obtain
federal qualification, an HMO must meet certain requirements, including
conformance with financial criteria, a standard method of rate setting, a
comprehensive benefit package, and prohibition of medical underwriting of
individuals. In certain markets, and for certain products, the Company operates
HMOs that are not federally qualified because this provides greater flexibility
with respect to product design and pricing than is possible for federally
qualified HMOs.
 
     HCFA audits Medicare risk HMOs at least biannually and may perform other
reviews more frequently to determine compliance with federal regulations and
contractual obligations. These audits include review of the HMO's administration
and management (including management information and data collection systems),
fiscal stability, utilization management and incentive arrangements, health
services delivery, quality assurance, marketing, enrollment and disenrollment
activity, claims processing and complaint systems. HCFA regulations require
quarterly and annual submission of financial statements and restrict the number
of Medicare risk members to no more than the HMO's Commercial membership in a
specified service area. HCFA regulations also require independent review of
medical records and quality of care, review and approval by HCFA of all
advertising, marketing and communication materials, and independent review of
all denied claims and service complaints which are not resolved in favor of a
member.
 
     During 1994, HCFA performed an investigation of the Company's South Florida
health plan. HCFA's findings, which focused primarily on the collection and use
of data, indicated the plan was not fully meeting HCFA requirements in the areas
of utilization management, quality assurance and availability/accessibility. The
Company and HCFA have agreed upon an implementation plan for a mutually
developed corrective action process. The Company believes this investigation
will not have a material adverse impact on the results of operations, financial
position or cash flows of the Company.
 
     The Company's Medicaid product is regulated by the applicable state agency
in the state which the Company sells its Medicaid product and is subject to
periodic reviews by these agencies. The reviews are similar in nature to those
performed by HCFA.
 

 
     Laws in each of the states in which the Company operates its HMOs and PPOs
regulate its operations, including the scope of benefits, rate formula, delivery
systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance, enrollment
requirements, claim payments, marketing and advertising. The PPO products
offered by the Company are generally sold under insurance licenses issued by the
applicable state insurance regulators. The Company's HMOs and PPOs are required
to be in compliance with certain minimum capital requirements. These
requirements must be satisfied by investing in approved investments that
generally cannot be used for other purposes. Under state laws, the Company's
HMOs and PPOs are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and
contractual compliance, and its HMOs are audited for compliance with health
services standards by respective state departments of health.
 
     Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with all
governmental laws and regulations affecting its business.
 
HEALTH CARE REFORM
 
     There has been diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the
federal and state levels to address aspects of the nation's health care system.
 
  National
 
     During 1994, Congress debated health care legislation which included
proposals covering cost controls, universal coverage and the creation of
statewide health alliances that would cover individuals not enrolled in large
employer managed care health plans. No material substantive legislation was
passed in 1994, nor has any been proposed to date in 1995.
 
  State
 
     Legislation enacted in the states has included, among other things,
universal access, employer purchasing pools and statewide purchasing alliances.
Other managed care issues being discussed include any willing provider,
guaranteed renewal, portability, rating restrictions, and freedom of choice
requirements.
 
     The State of Florida has adopted health care reform legislation which,
among other things, establishes a mechanism through which small employers and
self-employed individuals may acquire health care coverage through state
chartered non-profit entities known as Community Health Purchasing Alliances
(CHPAs). It is intended the CHPAs will also be used to acquire insurance for
state employees and Medicaid beneficiaries in the future. The legislation
divides the state into 11 geographic areas and establishes a separate CHPA for
each area. The Company is offering products in each of these geographic areas.
 
     The Commonwealth of Kentucky has passed legislation which, among other
things, requires standardization of health care policies by July 15, 1995 and
establishes a health care policy board to recommend health insurance reform
measures to the Kentucky legislature. At this time, neither the standardization
of health insurance policies nor any health reform proposals have been finalized
and the Company cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation will have
on its operations in Kentucky.
 
     The Company is unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and
regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations
affecting its businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the
proposed laws will be adopted, or what effect any such new laws and regulations
will have on its revenues, profitability and business prospects.
 
OTHER BUSINESSES
 
  Hospital
 
     The Company owns a 170-bed hospital in Lexington, Kentucky, which provides
care primarily to members of the Company's managed care plans in Lexington. The
Company has contracted with an independent hospital management company (the
"Management Company"), whereby effective March 1, 1995, all operational
functions of the hospital are managed by the Management Company.
 

 
  Captive Insurance Company
 
     The Company insures substantially all of its professional liability risks
through a wholly-owned subsidiary (the "Captive Subsidiary") which was
incorporated in the State of Vermont. The annual premiums paid to the Captive
Subsidiary are determined by independent actuaries. The Captive Subsidiary
reinsures levels of coverage for losses in excess of its retained limits with
various unrelated insurance carriers.
 
  Centralized Management Services
 
     Centralized management services are provided to each health plan from the
Company's headquarters. These services include management information systems,
product administration, financing, personnel, development, accounting, legal
advice, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management,
actuarial, underwriting and claims processing.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of December 31, 1994, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately
12,000 employees. Approximately 1,400 employees of the Company are covered by
collective bargaining agreements. The Company has not experienced any work
stoppages and believes it has good relations with its employees.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     The Company owns its principal executive office, which is located in the
Humana Building, 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202.
 
     The Company provides medical services in medical centers owned or leased
ranging in size from approximately 1,200 to 80,000 square feet. The Company's
administrative market offices are generally leased, with square footage ranging
from 500 to 75,000. The following chart lists the location of properties used in
the operation of the Company at December 31, 1994:
 

 
     In addition, the Company owns buildings in Louisville, Kentucky, and San
Antonio, Texas, and leases a facility in Jacksonville, Florida, all of which are
used for customer service and claims processing. The Louisville facility also
performs enrollment processing and other corporate functions.
 
     The Company also owns a hospital and medical office building in Lexington,
Kentucky.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
1. A class action law suit styled Mary Forsyth, et al v. Humana Inc., et al,
   Case #CV-5-89-249-PMP (L.R.L.), (now restyled Marietta Cade, et al v. Humana
   Health Insurance of Nevada, Inc., et al) was filed on March 29, 1989, in the
   United States District Court for the District of Nevada (the "Forsyth" case).
   There have been no material changes since those described in the Company's
   Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1994.
 

 
2. On April 22, 1993, an alleged stockholder of the Company filed a purported
   shareholder derivative action in the Court of Chancery of the State of
   Delaware, County of New Castle, styled Lewis v. Austen, et al, Civil Action
   No. 12937. There have been no changes since those described in the Company's
   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.
 
     Damages for claims for personal injuries and medical benefit denials are
usual in the Company's business. Personal injury claims are covered by insurance
from the Captive Subsidiary and excess carriers, except to the extent that
claimants seek punitive damages, which may not be covered by insurance if
awarded. Punitive damages generally are not paid where claims are settled and
generally are awarded only where there has been a willful act or omission to
act.
 
     The Company does not believe that any pending actions will have a material
adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     None.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
     Set forth below are names and ages of all of the current executive officers
of the Company as of March 1, 1995, their positions, date of election to such
position and the date first elected an officer of the Company:
 

 
---------------
(1) Elected an officer of a predecessor corporation in 1961.
 
(2) Mr. Hipwell was initially elected an officer of the Company in 1990 and
    previously served in this same capacity since July 1992. Effective with the
    Spinoff, he became Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Galen. Mr.
    Hipwell returned to the Company in January 1994 and was named Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of the Company on June 15, 1994.
 
     Executive officers are elected annually by the Company's Board of Directors
and serve until their successors are elected or until resignation or removal.
There are no family relationships among any of the directors or executive
officers of the Company, except that Mr. Jones is the father of David A. Jones,
Jr., a director of the Company. Except for Mr. Hipwell, all of the above-named
executive officers have been employees of the Company for more than five
consecutive years.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
     Information for Items 5 through 8 of this Report, which appears in the 1994
Annual Report to Stockholders as indicated on the following table, is
incorporated by reference in this report and filed as an exhibit hereto:
 

 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by this Item other than the information set forth
in Part I under the Section entitled "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY," is
herein incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 11, 1995, appearing
under the caption "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY FOR 1995" of such Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 11, 1995, appearing under the caption "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION OF
THE COMPANY" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 11, 1995, appearing under the caption "SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF COMPANY COMMON STOCK" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 11, 1995 appearing under the caption "CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH
MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS" of such Proxy Statement.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K
 

 
---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(t) and 10(mm) are compensatory plans
  or management contracts.
 

 

 
---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(t) and 10(mm) are compensatory plans
  or management
  contracts.
 

 

 
---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(t) and 10(mm) are compensatory plans
  or management
  contracts.
 

 

 
---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(t) and 10(mm) are compensatory plans
  or management contracts.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K:
 
     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last quarter of
     the period covered by this report.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
                                          HUMANA INC.
 
                                          By:      /s/  W. ROGER DRURY
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                       W. Roger Drury
                                                  Chief Financial Officer
 
Date: March 30, 1995
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
Humana Inc.
 
     Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Humana Inc. dated
February 13, 1995, which includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change
in 1993 in the method of accounting for certain investments in debt and equity
securities, has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from page 33 of
the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders of Humana Inc. In connection with our
audits of such financial statements, we have also audited the related financial
statement schedules listed in the index in Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.
 
COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Louisville, Kentucky
February 13, 1995
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
             SCHEDULE I -- PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION(A)
                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
---------------
(a) Parent company financial information has been derived from the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and excludes the accounts of all
    operating subsidiaries. This information should be read in conjunction with
    the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 
(b) In the normal course of business, the parent company indemnifies certain of
    its subsidiaries for health plan obligations its subsidiaries may be unable
    to meet. In addition, the parent remains contingently liable for
    approximately $55 million of Galen debt.
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
             SCHEDULE I -- PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION(A)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
---------------
(a) Parent company financial information has been derived from the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and excludes the accounts of all
    operating subsidiaries. This information should be read in conjunction with
    the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
             SCHEDULE I -- PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION(A)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
---------------
(a) Parent company financial information has been derived from the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company and excludes the accounts of all
    operating subsidiaries. This information should be read in conjunction with
    the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 

 
                                  HUMANA INC.
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 




                                EXHIBIT INDEX





 
---------------
 
* Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(t) and 10(mm) are compensatory plans
  or management contracts.

