
10-K405
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                           --------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)



                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 1, 2000
                                       OR



      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ________________ TO ________________

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10606

                           --------------------------

                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



           2655 SEELY AVENUE, BUILDING 5, SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA 95134
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, including Zip Code)

                                 (408)943-1234
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, including Area Code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      NONE

                           --------------------------

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. / /

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held on March 3, 2000 by
non-affiliates of the registrant: $5,014,367,568

   Number of shares of common stock outstanding at March 3, 2000: 244,603,296

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the definitive proxy statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting to be
held on May 24, 2000, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                          1999 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                               



                                    PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including,
without limitation, statements containing the words "believes," "anticipate,"
"estimates," "expects," "intends," and words of similar import, constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Reform
Act of 1995. Actual results could vary materially from those expressed in these
statements. Readers are referred to "Marketing and Sales," "Research and
Development," "Competition," "Proprietary Technology," "Manufacturing," and
"Factors That May Affect Future Results" sections contained herein, which
identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from
those contained in the forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW

    Cadence Design Systems, Inc., or Cadence, provides comprehensive software
and other technology and offers design and methodology services for the product
development requirements of the world's leading electronics companies. Cadence
licenses its leading-edge electronic design automation, or EDA, software and
hardware technology and provides a range of services to companies throughout the
world to help its customers optimize their product development processes.
Cadence is a supplier of end-to-end products and services, which are used by
companies to design and develop complex chips and electronic systems including
semiconductors, computer systems and peripherals, telecommunications and
networking equipment, mobile and wireless devices, automotive electronics,
consumer products, and other advanced electronics.

    Cadence was formed as a Delaware corporation as a result of the merger of
SDA Systems, Inc. into ECAD, Inc. in May 1988. Cadence's executive offices are
located at 2655 Seely Avenue, Building 5, San Jose, California 95134, and its
telephone number at that location is (408) 943-1234.

ELECTRONIC DESIGN AUTOMATION

    The worldwide electronics industry is experiencing rapid growth in both the
business-to-business and consumer products segments. The cost of producing
complex chips have decreased, and these lower prices have accelerated growth of
the consumer products segment due to the increased use in consumer products,
such as home appliances and personal computers, automotive products,
entertainment products and games, and personal communication and organization
devices, which include complex chips and electronics components, once only
contained in business-to-business products. This industry development presents
challenges for developers of electronic products, where time-to-market, cost,
performance, quality, reliability, size, and the need for product diversity
become critical in a fast-paced and volatile industry.

    The electronics industry is faced with a continuing escalation in complexity
of electronic devices. The major trends responsible for the increasing
complexity of designing and manufacturing electronic devices are as follows:

    - The size of features such as wires, transistors, and contacts on chips is
      shrinking due to advances in semiconductor manufacturing processes.
      Process feature sizes refer to the width of the transistors and the width
      and spacing of the interconnect on the chip. Feature size is normally
      identified by the headline transistor length, which is shrinking from 0.35
      microns to 0.18 microns and below. This is commonly referred to in the
      semiconductor industry as the migration to deep submicron and represents a
      major challenge for all levels of the semiconductor industry from design
      and design automation to design of manufacturing equipment and the
      manufacturing process itself. Shrinkage of transistor length to such
      infinitesimal proportions (for reference, the diameter of the period at
      the end of this sentence is approximately 400 microns) is challenging
      fundamental laws of physics and chemistry.


    - The ability to design very large chips, in particular integration of
      entire electronic systems onto a single chip instead of a circuit board (a
      process that is referred to in the industry as system-on-a-chip, or SOC),
      increases the complexity of managing a design that at the lowest level is
      represented by billions of shapes on the fabrication mask. In addition,
      systems typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal
      processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous
      design of the silicon chip and the related embedded software on the chip.

    These trends are posing major new challenges for electronics designers. The
shift to deep sub-micron means that many physical effects that could previously
be ignored by designers must now be considered during the design process. The
challenge of formulating extremely large chip designs means that new approaches
to managing complexity and abstraction are required. These challenges are being
addressed in a number of ways, including revamping old design methodologies,
introducing new EDA tools and technologies to design environments, and adopting
a SOC style of design to take advantage of silicon manufacturing capabilities.

THE COMPLEX CHIP AND ELECTRONICS SYSTEM DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESS

    The electronic design process involves describing the behavioral,
architectural, functional, and structural attributes of an integrated circuit or
electronic system. The process commences with the designer describing the
product's overall system architecture on a very general level. This general
description is then refined into a series of increasingly detailed descriptions
to meet predetermined design specifications, simulating the design at each level
to identify defects. The refinements are generally made using automated tools
that read one description represented by a computer file and write another more
detailed computer file, guided by input from the designer. The lowest level of
description provides the manufacturing data required by the semiconductor
foundry to create the masks and test programs needed to build functioning chips.

    In practice, problems may be found at one level that can only be resolved by
revising a higher level description. This process, often referred to as
iteration, slows the overall design process.

    BEHAVIORAL AND ARCHITECTURAL DEFINITION--THE SYSTEM LEVEL

    A natural evolution of EDA is a top-down design approach known as electronic
systems design automation. The highest level of description of the electronic
system is referred to as the system level. Increasingly the complexity of the
system design and the need to start embedded software development before the
chip design is complete. This level consists of two components, the behavioral
definition and the architectural definition. The behavioral definition is a
description of what the system should do, without any determination as to how it
is to be implemented. The architectural definition is a detailed description of
the particular implementation of the behavior for the chip that is being
designed.

    THE DESIGN DESCRIPTION--THE RTL LEVEL

    Based on overall system architecture, the designer creates a design
description using a variety of techniques, including block diagrams, equations
and special design description languages referred to as hardware description
languages. The key description of a chip in current methodology is the register-
transfer level, known as the RTL level. RTL level designs are described in
hardware description languages, almost always VHDL or
Verilog-Registered Trademark- languages. If the system design is done
informally, then this is the level at which the designer first enters the design
manually. If the system design is done more formally then some or all of the RTL
may be automatically generated by a design tool from the system level
description.

    The RTL level is verified for correctness by reading the RTL description
into a simulation program and making changes to the inputs to the system. The
simulator then automatically calculates the effect of those input changes on the
entire system and writes out the output changes from the system. The designer


can then manually inspect these output changes, or use more automated
approaches, to verify that the system behaves as intended. This process is known
as functional verification.

    STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND SIMULATION--GATE LEVEL

    The next lower level of electronics system design has historically been the
gate level. Before an integrated circuit or printed circuit board can be
manufactured, general design descriptions must be reduced to detailed structural
plans in which the engineer specifically defines components, their
interconnections, and associated physical properties. At this stage in the
process, the design is further described as a network of interconnected standard
cells, the small building blocks of silicon from a library, along with larger
cells such as memories and microprocessors. Structural designs may be created
manually or generated from the RTL level description using an automated process
called logic synthesis. A database containing the design's electrical
characteristics, interconnections, and specific design rules is automatically
created and used as the foundation for subsequent design steps.

    In order to identify design errors before manufacturing, the gate level is
verified to match the RTL level description either using simulation, or
increasingly by static techniques such as equivalence checking and static timing
analysis used in large designs, that prove that the various circuits in the
design are adequately fast. Simulation enables electronic product designers to
quickly explore design alternatives, which can be performed at different levels
of design abstraction. A designer is then able to verify the conceptual,
structural, and performance aspects of the design.

    PHYSICAL DESIGN AND VERIFICATION--LAYOUT LEVEL

    When the design is determined to be functionally correct, the designer
generates a non-graphical description, called a netlist, that details the design
components and interconnections. This netlist becomes the blueprint for the
physical design of the electronic system or chip. After development of the
netlist, the physical design team determines the layout of the system or chip.
At this stage of the process, the design is further described in terms of where
each standard cell or larger cell is to be placed on the chip, along with the
patterns of metal interconnect to be used on the chip to join them together
electrically. The process by which this description is created from the netlist
is known as place and route. The ideal layout will yield the optimum combination
of performance, size, and cost.

    Once this process is completed, physical verification tools are used to
provide a final check of the design implementation before products are released
to manufacturing. Accuracy in this process is essential for avoiding costly
production runs of faulty parts. This step-by-step process has now evolved into
a concurrent process as the next generation of physical design and verification
products have entered the EDA market. In the latest design flows, synthesis,
where the RTL description is transformed into a netlist, and place and route,
where the netlist is transformed into layout, are done at the same time,
reflecting an evolution of EDA into a more concurrent process.

CADENCE'S ELECTRONIC DESIGN AUTOMATION TOOLS

    Cadence offers a broad spectrum of EDA software tools and hardware that
apply to one or more steps in the complex chip and electronics system design
process described above. These tools provide a variety of functions, including
system-level design; logic design, simulation, emulation, and verification;
physical implementation, verification, and analysis; and printed circuit board
design.

    SYSTEM-LEVEL DESIGN--BEHAVIORAL AND ARCHITECTURAL DEFINITION

    System-level design allows the system architect to design at the highest
levels of abstraction, allows customers to test their designs early in the
design process, and enables customers to automate interactions between the
architect and the chip designer. Cadence's Cierto-TM- virtual component
co-design toolset, or


VCC, analyzes behavioral and architectural definitions. Specifically, VCC
analyzes a particular architecture for implementation of a behavioral
definition, such as desired electronic functions, and provides feedback on
design performance. Once a particular architecture is chosen, VCC output can be
used to create or verify the RTL level of the design, and the embedded software
within it. The Cadence Cierto signal processing worksystem toolset provides
system-level design for a number of specific application areas, including wired
and wireless communications and multimedia. Virtual component co-design and
signal processing worksystem are part of the Cadence Cierto product line.

    PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION, VERIFICATION, AND ANALYSIS

        LAYOUT LEVEL

    The Envisia Silicon Ensemble-TM- ultra place and route tools are one of
Cadence's most successful product lines. During 1999, Cadence released Envisia
Silicon Ensemble tools with signal integrity, a tool designed to eliminate
signal and reliability problems as process feature sizes get smaller. These chip
components get smaller as the electronics industry evolves from .25 micron to
 .18 micron geometries.

    Cadence's custom layout portfolio is anchored by the
Virtuoso-Registered Trademark- product family, which includes tools for basic
layout editing, design compaction, layout synthesis, and device-level editing.
The Virtuoso automated custom physical design flow significantly increases
customer productivity of custom design layout by automating some of the process.

    Cadence's analog and mixed-signal design solutions consist of the
Spectre-Registered Trademark- circuit simulation family and the Affirma-TM-
analog circuit design environment. These products are used for creating the
complex transistor interconnect structures required for mixed-signal design and
verifying through simulation that the structures provide the correct behavior
and performance.

    The Cadence Dracula-Registered Trademark-, Diva-Registered Trademark-, and
Vampire-Registered Trademark- verification tools, which comprise the Cadence
Assura-TM- product line, provide integral solutions for automated and
interactive physical and batch verification, meaning the running of a program
over a period of time. This product line enables electronic product designers to
perform a final check of their designs before products are released to
manufacturing.

        DEEP SUBMICRON IMPLEMENTATION

    The Cadence Envisia product line provides a broad solution for design
planning, synthesis and placement and routing of deep submicron design. The
Envisia product line includes specialized technology to deal with complex
challenges such as timing convergence, crosstalk, and signal integrity. Envisia
Silicon Ensemble is a place and route tool that takes gate-level descriptions,
or gate-level descriptions plus placement information, and produces the layout
level description. The latest version of Envisia, Silicon Ensemble signal
integrity, takes account of various problems with deep submicron process
technology by altering the description to avoid potential signal integrity
issues.

        PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD DESIGN AND PACKAGING

    The Cadence Allegro-Registered Trademark- and SPECCTRA-Registered Trademark-
product lines offer broad capability for the layout of standard printed circuit
boards and advanced component packaging. In 1999, Cadence acquired OrCAD, Inc.,
a printed circuit board designer that focused on the shrink-wrap segment of the
market.

    LOGIC DESIGN, SIMULATION, AND VERIFICATION

        RTL LEVEL DESIGN

    Some of Cadence's most successful products are its simulation tools.
NC-simulator, NC-Verilog, and NC-VHDL comprise Cadence's family of digital
simulators that are used for the functional verification of designs described in
Verilog, VHDL or both. They can operate at the behavioral level, RTL level, and


gate-level. The older Verilog-XL product is still available. The Cadence
Spectre-Registered Trademark- circuit simulator is used to verify designs at the
transistor level, particularly for analog design. The Affirma analog circuit
design environment is often used in conjunction with the Spectre products. These
simulators provide customers with the high simulation performance needed for
functional verification of today's most complex designs.

    In 1999, Cadence acquired Quickturn Design Systems, Inc. Cadence's product
line obtained with the Quickturn acquisition consists of CoBALT-TM- and
Mercury-TM- products, which provide high-performance hardware-emulation, and
SpeedSim-TM- simulator, which provides high-performance cycle-based simulation
compatible with the CoBALT design-style. Through custom hardware
implementations, these products provided extremely high-performance emulation of
a design.

        GATE LEVEL

    Cadence's products for formally verifying correctness of circuits include
the Affirma equivalence checker and Affirma Formalcheck for model-checking. The
equivalence checker can verify representations of the same design at different
levels, in particular the RTL level versus gate level. The Cadence Affirma
design and verification product line include logic, analog, and mixed-signal
design analysis and verification. Affirma products can predict the behavior of
designs in a short cycle time. Affirma products are used by numerous
application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, vendors and support more than
185 ASIC libraries.

    In 1999, Cadence acquired Design Acceleration Inc., or DAI. DAI's
transaction-based verification and debugging environment is integrated with
Affirma simulators and offered as Cadence's verification cockpit suite of tools.

    The Cadence Envisia Ambit-Registered Trademark- synthesis tool is a
high-performance high-capacity synthesis tool that enables users to synthesize
an RTL-level description to a netlist that produces lower level gate-level
descriptions optimized to meet the timing required by the designer. The
physically knowledgeable synthesis, or PKS, feature to Envisia synthesis
concurrently performs synthesis, placement, and estimated routing, enabling
one-pass timing closure. One-pass timing closure refers to the ability of the
product not to require a loop back between the place and route tool, such as the
Silicon Ensemble tools, and the synthesis tool, such as Envisia Ambit synthesis,
once the timing is determined to be accurate. Envisia synthesis tools also
include a high-performance static timing analyzer.

    ALANZA GROUP

    Cadence partners with other design automation vendors to deliver technology
to Cadence's customers. Through the Alanza Group programs, customers, including
other EDA companies, can more easily integrate their products and technologies
with those of other EDA vendors. This enables customers to mix and match
third-party and proprietary tools to specifically meet a customer's EDA needs.
Today, more than 125 companies have integrated their tools with Cadence
software.

SERVICES

    Cadence offers to electronic product developers a portfolio of services
within the categories of Methodology Services, which are consulting services,
and Design Services.

    METHODOLOGY SERVICES

    The Cadence Methodology Services group offers a variety of services to help
customers solve their electronic design challenges. The Methodology Services
group assists customers in developing and deploying world-class design
methodologies. The Methodology Services team works to improve a customer's
overall design productivity by leveraging Cadence's cumulative experience and
knowledge of industry "best practices." This is accomplished in a variety of
ways, from training customers on the full range of features available in each
software tool to custom methodology implementations that ensure that


customers have optimized the deployment of Cadence tools within their unique
environments. Additionally, Methodology Services provides more comprehensive
services, such as complete design process re-engineering services and the
creation, maintenance, and management of a customer's complete design
environment.

    DESIGN SERVICES

    Through its Design Services group, Cadence designs for its customers
complete electronic devices, or assists its customers in their design of
electronic system components, such as chips, or complete electronic systems.
When developers of electronic content lack the resources, desire, or experience
to do all of their own design work, where time to market is critical and they
lack the capability to meet their timelines or when they need to keep their
internal engineers focused on other higher-priority design activities, the
Cadence Design Services group helps customers by doing design work for them.

    Cadence offers a variety of design services for projects across all aspects
of analog/mixed signal integrated circuit and block design realization,
including foundry/process selection and testing from prototype to production.
Design Services focuses on four major high growth areas: wireless
communications, wired communications, information appliances, and industrial
electronics.

SUPPORT SERVICES

    Cadence's Maintenance group offers standard product support services,
including product updates, telephone, and Internet-based support. Cadence also
offers custom support services, which may include one or more of its standard
support services plus account technical management, application and educational
services, and metrics reporting. Through the metrics reporting service purchased
by customers, Cadence measures how well Cadence is responding to, and resolving,
customer inquiries and problems associated with the use of Cadence products.

MARKETING AND SALES

    Cadence generally uses a direct sales force consisting of sales people and
applications engineers to license its products and market its consulting and
design services to prospective customers. Applications engineers provide
technical pre-sales as well as post-sales support for the software products.
Cadence's Methodology Services group provides on-site capabilities to assist
customers in improving their productivity with Cadence's and other EDA
suppliers' products, and Cadence's Design Services team performs actual design
work on behalf of or in conjunction with customers. Due to the complexity of EDA
products and the electronic design process in general, the selling cycle is
generally long, with three to six months or longer being typical. During the
sales cycle, Cadence's direct sales force generally provides technical
presentations, product demonstrations, and on-site customer evaluations of
Cadence software. Cadence also uses traditional marketing approaches to promote
its products and services, including advertising, direct mail, telemarketing,
trade shows, public relations, and the Internet.

    Cadence markets and supports its products and services internationally
(except in Japan) primarily through its subsidiaries and various distributors.
Following a reorganization of Cadence's distribution channel in Japan in 1997,
Cadence licenses its products through Innotech Corporation, in which Cadence is
approximately a 16% stockholder as of March 1, 2000. Cadence markets its
consulting and design services in Japan through a wholly-owned subsidiary.

    Revenue from international sources, including Japan, was $566.5 million for
1999, $643.6 million for 1998, and $527.2 million for 1997, or approximately
52%, 49%, and 51%, respectively, of total revenue. See "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements" for a summary of revenue by geographic area. Prices for
international customers are quoted from a local currency international price
list. The list is prepared based on the U.S. dollar price list but reflects the
higher cost of doing business outside the U.S. International customers are
invoiced in the local currency or U.S. dollars using current exchange rates.


    Recent economic uncertainty and the weakening of foreign currencies in
certain parts of the Asia-Pacific region has had, and may continue to have, a
seriously harmful effect on Cadence's revenue and operating results.

    Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the
currencies of countries other than the U.S. in which Cadence conducts business
could seriously harm its business, operating results, and financial condition.
For example, if there is an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency
exchanges into U.S. dollars, it will take more of the foreign currency to equal
a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before the rate increase. If Cadence
prices its products and services in the foreign currency, it will receive less
in U.S. dollars than it did before the rate increase went into effect. If
Cadence prices its products and services in U.S. dollars, an increase in the
exchange rate will result in an increase in the price for Cadence's products and
services compared to those products of its competitors that are priced in local
currency. This could result in Cadence's prices being uncompetitive in markets
where business is transacted in the local currency. Cadence's international
operations may also be subject to other risks, including:

    - The adoption and expansion of government trade restrictions;

    - Volatile foreign exchange rates and currency conversion risks;

    - Limitations on repatriation of earnings;

    - Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;

    - Recessions in foreign economies;

    - Longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting
      accounts receivable;

    - Difficulties in managing foreign operations;

    - Political and economic instability;

    - Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;

    - Tariffs and other trade barriers; and

    - U.S. government licensing requirements for export, as licenses can be
      difficult to obtain.

    Cadence expects that revenue from its international operations will continue
to account for a significant portion of its total revenue.

    Exposure to foreign currency transaction risk can arise when transactions
are conducted in a currency different from the functional currency of a Cadence
subsidiary. A subsidiary's functional currency is the currency in which it
primarily conducts its operations, including product pricing, expenses, and
borrowings. Cadence uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts and
purchases foreign currency put options to help protect against currency exchange
risks. These forward contracts and put options allow Cadence to buy or sell
specific foreign currencies at specific prices on specific dates. Increases or
decreases in the value of Cadence's foreign currency transactions are partially
offset by gains and losses on these forward contracts and put options. Although
Cadence attempts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations,
significant exchange rate movements may hurt Cadence's results of operations as
expressed in U.S. dollars.

    Foreign currency exchange risk occurs for some of Cadence's foreign
operations whose functional currency is the local currency. The primary effect
of foreign currency translation on Cadence's results of operations is a
reduction in revenue from a strengthening U.S. dollar, offset by a smaller
reduction in expenses. Exchange rate gains and losses on the translation into
U.S. dollars of amounts denominated in foreign currencies are included as a
separate component of stockholders' equity and reflected losses of $2.5 million
in 1999, $1.4 million in 1998, and $6 million in 1997.


    On January 1, 1999, 11 member countries of the European Union adopted the
Euro as their common legal currency and established fixed conversion rates
between their sovereign currencies and the Euro. Transactions can be made in
either the sovereign currencies or the Euro until January 1, 2002, when the Euro
must be used exclusively. Currently, only electronic transactions may be
conducted using the Euro. Cadence believes that its internal systems and
financial institution vendors are capable of handling the Euro conversion and
Cadence is in the process of examining current marketing and pricing policies
and strategies that may be affected by conversion to the Euro. The cost of this
effort is not expected to materially harm Cadence's results of operations or
financial condition. However, Cadence cannot assure you that all issues related
to the Euro conversion have been identified and that any additional issues would
not materially harm Cadence's results of operations or financial condition. For
example, the conversion to the Euro may have competitive implications on
Cadence's pricing and marketing strategies and Cadence may be at risk to the
extent its principal European suppliers and customers are unable to deal
effectively with the impact of the Euro conversion. Cadence has not yet
completed its evaluation of the impact of the Euro conversion on its functional
currency designations.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Cadence's investment in research and development was $244.9 million in 1999,
$224.5 million in 1998, and $182.3 million in 1997, prior to capitalizing
software development costs of $25.7 million, $21.7 million, and $15.1 million,
respectively. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a more
complete description of Cadence's capitalization of certain software development
costs.

    Among the primary areas that Cadence's research addresses are SOC design,
the design of silicon devices in the deep submicron range, high-speed board
design, architectural-level design, high-performance logic verification
technology, and hardware/software co-design. The industries in which Cadence
competes experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry
standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
introductions and improvements. If Cadence is unable to respond quickly and
successfully to these developments and changes, Cadence may lose its competitive
position and its products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete.
In order to compete successfully, Cadence must develop or acquire new products
and improve its existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace
with technological developments in its industries. Cadence must also be able to
support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms, and customer
preferences. There is no guarantee that Cadence will be successful in this
regard.

    Cadence's advanced research and development group, Cadence Laboratories, is
committed to new technological development. This group is chartered with
identifying and developing prototype technologies in emerging design areas that
will offer substantially improved alternatives to current EDA solutions.

COMPETITION

    The electronic design automation product market and the commercial
electronic design and methodology services industries are highly competitive. If
Cadence is unable to compete successfully in these industries, it could
seriously harm Cadence's business, operating results, and financial condition.
To compete in these industries, Cadence must identify and develop innovative and
cost competitive EDA products and market them in a timely manner. It must also
gain industry acceptance for its design and methodology services and offer
better strategic concepts, technical solutions, prices and response time, or a
combination of these benefits, than those of other design companies and the
internal design departments of electronics manufacturers. Cadence cannot assure
you that it will be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors
that could affect Cadence's ability to succeed include:

    - The development of competitive EDA products and design and methodology
      services could result in a shift of customer preferences away from
      Cadence's products and services and significantly decrease revenue;


    - The electronics design and methodology services industries are relatively
      new and electronics design companies and manufacturers are only beginning
      to purchase these services from outside vendors;

    - The pace of technology change demands continuous technological development
      to meet the requirements of next-generation design challenges; and

    - There are a significant number of current and potential competitors in the
      EDA industry and the cost of entry is low.

    In the electronic design automation products industry, Cadence currently
competes with a number of large companies, including Avant! Corporation, Mentor
Graphics Corporation, Synopsys, Inc., and Zuken-Redac, and numerous small
companies. Cadence also competes with manufacturers of electronic devices that
have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products. Many
manufacturers of electronic devices may be reluctant to purchase services from
independent vendors such as Cadence because they wish to promote their own
internal design departments. In the electronics design and methodology services
industries, Cadence competes with numerous electronic design and consulting
companies as well as with the internal design capabilities of electronics
manufacturers. Other electronics companies and management consulting firms
continue to enter the electronics design and methodology services industries.

PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY

    Cadence's success depends, in part, upon its proprietary technology. Many of
Cadence's products include software or other intellectual property licensed from
third parties, and Cadence may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for
this software and other intellectual property in the future. Cadence's design
services business also requires it to license the software or other intellectual
property of third parties. Cadence's failure to obtain for its use software or
other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights on
favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation over these licenses or
rights, could seriously harm Cadence's business, operating results, and
financial condition.

    Also, Cadence generally relies on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade
secret laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights in technology and
products. Despite precautions Cadence may take to protect its intellectual
property, Cadence cannot assure you that third parties will not try to
challenge, invalidate or circumvent these patents. Cadence also cannot assure
you that the rights granted under its patents will provide it with any
competitive advantages, patents will be issued on any of its pending
applications, or future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect Cadence's
technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect Cadence's
proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as U.S. law protects
these rights in the U.S.

    Cadence cannot assure you that its reliance on licenses from or to third
parties, or patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection, will be
enough to be successful and profitable in the industries in which Cadence
competes. There are numerous patents in the EDA industry and new patents are
being issued at a rapid rate. It is not always economically practicable to
determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the
patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, Cadence may be forced
to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect
its rights or defend a customer's rights. These claims, regardless of merit,
could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause
product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm Cadence's business,
operating results, and financial condition. In settling these claims, Cadence
may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third
parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if
available, may not have terms acceptable to Cadence. Being forced to enter into
a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm Cadence's
business, operating results, and financial condition.


MANUFACTURING

    Cadence's software production operations consist of configuring the proper
version of a product, outsourcing the recording of the product on magnetic tape
or CD-ROM, and producing customer-unique access keys allowing customers to use
licensed products. User manuals and other documentation are generally available
on CD-ROM, but are occasionally supplied in hard copy format.

    Cadence performs final assembly and test of its emulation products in San
Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all major subassemblies, including
all individual printed circuit boards and custom integrated circuits, and supply
them to Cadence for qualification and testing prior to their incorporation into
the assembled product.

    Cadence has generally been able to obtain adequate manufacturing supplies in
a timely manner from existing sources or, where necessary, from alternative
sources of supply. However, a reduction or interruption in supply or a
significant increase in the price of one or more components would adversely
affect Cadence's business, operating results, and financial condition and could
damage customer relationships.

EMPLOYEES

    As of February 29, 2000, Cadence employed approximately 5,000 persons, with
approximately 2,850 in sales, services, marketing, support and manufacturing
activities, 1,400 in product development and 750 in management, administration
and finance. None of Cadence's employees is represented by a labor union, and
Cadence has experienced no work stoppages. Cadence believes that its employee
relations are good.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

    The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial
also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually
occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be
materially negatively affected.

    CADENCE LACKS LONG-TERM EXPERIENCE IN ITS ELECTRONICS DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY
     SERVICES BUSINESS

    Cadence has no long-term experience in offering electronics design and
methodology services and therefore may not be as experienced in this business as
others. The market for these services is relatively new and rapidly evolving.
Cadence's failure to succeed in these services businesses may seriously harm
Cadence's business, operating results, and financial condition.

    THE SUCCESS OF CADENCE'S ELECTRONIC DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY SERVICES
     BUSINESSES DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS THAT ARE BEYOND ITS CONTROL

    In order to be successful with its electronics design and methodology
services, Cadence must overcome several factors that are beyond its control,
including the following:

    - MANY SERVICE CONTRACTS GENERALLY REPRESENT LARGE AMOUNTS OF REVENUE.
      Cadence's electronics design and methodology services contracts generally
      represent a relatively large amount of revenue per order. Therefore, the
      loss of individual orders could seriously hurt Cadence's revenue and
      operating results.

    - CADENCE'S COST OF SERVICE PERSONNEL IS HIGH AND REDUCES GROSS MARGIN.
      Gross margin represents the difference between the amount of revenue from
      the sale of services and Cadence's cost of providing those services.
      Cadence must pay high salaries to professional services personnel to
      attract and retain them. This results in a lower gross margin than the
      gross margin in Cadence's software


      business. In addition, the high cost of training new services personnel or
      not fully utilizing these personnel can significantly lower gross margin.

    Additionally, a substantial portion of these service contracts are
fixed-price contracts. This means that the customer pays a fixed price that has
been agreed upon ahead of time, no matter how much time or how many resources
Cadence must devote to perform the contract. If Cadence's cost in performing the
services consistently and significantly exceeds the amount the customer has
agreed to pay, it could seriously harm Cadence's business, operating results,
and financial condition.

    CADENCE OBTAINS KEY COMPONENTS FOR ITS HARDWARE PRODUCTS FROM A LIMITED
     NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS

    Cadence depends on several suppliers for certain key components and board
assemblies used in its hardware-based emulation products. Cadence's inability to
develop alternative sources or to obtain sufficient quantities of these
components or board assemblies could result in delays or reductions in product
shipments. In particular, Cadence currently relies on Xilinx, Inc. and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation for the supply of key integrated
circuits and on IBM for the hardware components for both Cadence's CoBALT-TM-
product and Mercury Design Verification System-TM-. With regard to the Mercury
Design Verification System-TM-, IBM recently replaced Cadence's previous
supplier. IBM is currently providing the assembly services for several Mercury
components on a contractual basis. Other disruptions in supply may also occur.
If there were such a reduction or interruption, Cadence's results of operations
would be seriously harmed. Even if Cadence can eventually obtain these
components from alternative sources, a significant delay would result in
Cadence's ability to deliver products.

    FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD HURT CADENCE'S
     BUSINESS AND THE MARKET PRICE OF ITS STOCK

    Cadence has experienced, and may continue to experience, varied quarterly
operating results. Various factors affect Cadence's quarterly operating results
and some of them are not within Cadence's control, including the mix of products
and services sold, the mix of licenses used to sell products and the timing of
significant orders for its software products by customers. Quarterly operating
results are affected by the mix of products sold because there are significant
differences in margins from the sale of hardware and software products and
products and services. For example, based on a three-year average in 1998
Cadence had realized gross margins on software product sales of approximately
90% but realized gross margins of approximately 60% on hardware product sales
and 30% on its performance of services. In 1999, realized gross margins
decreased to approximately 87% for software products and increased to
approximately 72% for hardware products and to 35% for services. In addition,
Cadence's quarterly operating results are affected by the mix of licenses
entered into in connection with the sale of software products. Cadence has three
basic licensing models: perpetual, fixed-term, and subscription. Perpetual and
fixed-term licenses recognize a larger portion of the revenue at the beginning
of the license period and subscription licenses recognize revenue ratably over
each quarter of the term of the license. If Cadence customers purchase more
software products pursuant to a subscription agreement in any one quarter, the
operating results for that quarter may be lower than that of comparable quarters
in which perpetual and fixed-term licenses were used for more software product
transactions. Finally, Cadence's quarterly operating results are affected by the
timing of significant orders for its software products because a significant
number of contracts for software products are in excess of $5 million. The
failure to close a contract for the sale of one or more orders of Cadence's
software products could seriously harm its quarterly operating results.

    Cadence's hardware products typically have a lengthy sales cycle, during
which Cadence may expend substantial funds and management effort without any
assurance that a sale will result. Sales of Cadence's hardware products depend,
in significant part, upon the decision of the prospective customer to commence a
project for the design and development of complex computer chips and systems.
Such projects often require significant commitments of time and capital.
Cadence's hardware sales may be delayed if customers delay commencement of
projects. Lengthy hardware sales cycles subject Cadence to a number


of significant risks over which Cadence has little or no control, including
inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in quarterly operating results.

    In addition, Cadence bases its expense budgets partially on its expectations
of future revenue. However, it is difficult to predict revenue levels or growth.
Revenue levels that are below Cadence's expectations could seriously hurt
Cadence's business, operating results, and financial condition. If revenue or
operating results fall short of the levels expected by public market analysts
and investors, the trading price of Cadence common stock could decline
dramatically. Also, because of the timing of large orders and its customers'
buying patterns, Cadence may not learn of revenue shortfalls, earnings
shortfalls or other failures to meet market expectations until late in a fiscal
quarter, which could cause even more immediate and serious harm to the trading
price of Cadence common stock.

    Because Cadence has no long-term experience providing services, it believes
that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations may not be
meaningful. Therefore, stockholders should not view Cadence's historical results
of operations as reliable indicators of its future performance.

    CADENCE EXPECTS TO ACQUIRE OTHER COMPANIES AND MAY NOT SUCCESSFULLY
     INTEGRATE THEM OR THE COMPANIES IT RECENTLY ACQUIRED

    Cadence has acquired other businesses before and may do so again. While
Cadence expects to analyze carefully all potential transactions before
committing to them, Cadence cannot assure you that any transaction that is
completed will result in long-term benefits to Cadence or its stockholders, or
that Cadence's management will be able to manage the acquired businesses
effectively. In addition, growth through acquisition involves a number of risks.
If any of the following events occurs after Cadence acquires another business,
it could seriously harm Cadence's business, operating results, and financial
condition:

    - Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single
      unit;

    - The substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day
      business when negotiating these transactions and then integrating an
      acquired business;

    - The discovery after the acquisition has been completed of liabilities
      assumed from the acquired business;

    - The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and
      revenue enhancements;

    - The failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; and

    - Difficulties related to assimilating the products of an acquired business
      in, for example, distribution, engineering, and customer support areas;

    FAILURE TO OBTAIN EXPORT LICENSES COULD HARM CADENCE'S BUSINESS

    Cadence must comply with U.S. Department of Commerce regulations in shipping
its software products and other technologies outside the U.S. Although Cadence
has not had any significant difficulty complying with these regulations so far,
any significant future difficulty in complying could harm Cadence's business,
operating results, and financial condition.

    CADENCE'S FAILURE TO ATTRACT, TRAIN, MOTIVATE, AND RETAIN KEY EMPLOYEES MAY
     HARM ITS BUSINESS

    Competition for highly skilled employees is intense. Cadence's business
depends on the efforts and abilities of its senior management, its research and
development staff, and a number of other key management, sales, support,
technical, and services personnel. Cadence's failure to attract, train,
motivate, and retain such employees would impair its development of new
products, its ability to provide design and methodology services and the
management of its businesses. This would seriously harm Cadence's business,
operating results, and financial condition.


    ANTI-TAKEOVER DEFENSES IN CADENCE'S CHARTER, BY LAWS, AND UNDER DELAWARE LAW
     COULD PREVENT AN ACQUISITION OF CADENCE OR LIMIT THE PRICE THAT INVESTORS
     MIGHT BE WILLING TO PAY FOR CADENCE COMMON STOCK

    Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to Cadence and
its Certificate of Incorporation could make it difficult for another company to
acquire control of Cadence. For example:

    - Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a
      Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a
      person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with
      the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time
      within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a
      period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless
      specified conditions are met.

    - Cadence's Certificate of Incorporation allows Cadence's Board of Directors
      to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock
      with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are
      currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any Cadence
      preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the
      rights of holders of its common stock.

    - Cadence has a rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill," which would
      make it difficult for someone to acquire Cadence without the approval of
      Cadence's Board of Directors.

    All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors
would be willing to pay for shares of Cadence common stock and could delay,
prevent or allow Cadence's Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of
Cadence, even if the proposed transaction was favored by a majority of Cadence's
independent stockholders.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    Cadence's headquarters are located in San Jose, California, and Cadence owns
the related land and buildings. Additionally, Cadence owns buildings and land in
India and Scotland. The total square footage of Cadence's owned buildings is
approximately 984,000 square feet.

    Cadence leases additional facilities for its sales offices in the U.S. and
various foreign countries, and its research and development and design services
facilities in California and other states and in foreign countries including
Scotland, India, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Japan.

    Cadence believes that these facilities and the undeveloped land it owns
adjacent to its current headquarters are adequate for its current needs and that
suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to
accommodate any expansion of Cadence's operations.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    From time to time Cadence is involved in various disputes and litigation
matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes
and lawsuits related to intellectual property, licensing, contract law,
distribution arrangements, and employee relations matters.

    Cadence filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California on December 6, 1995 against Avant! Corporation and
certain of its employees for misappropriation of trade secrets, copyright
infringement, conspiracy, and other illegal acts.

    On January 16, 1996, Avant! filed various counterclaims against Cadence and
Joseph B. Costello, Cadence's former President and Chief Executive Officer, and
with leave of the court, on January 29, 1998, filed a second amended
counterclaim. The second amended counterclaim alleges, INTER ALIA, that Cadence
and Mr. Costello had cooperated with the Santa Clara County, California,
District Attorney and initiated and pursued its complaint against Avant! for
anticompetitive reasons, engaged in wrongful activity in an attempt to
manipulate Avant!'s stock price, and utilized certain pricing policies and other
acts to unfairly


compete against Avant! in the marketplace. The second amended counterclaim also
alleges that certain Cadence insiders engaged in illegal insider trading with
respect to Avant!'s stock. Cadence and Mr. Costello believe that they have
meritorious defenses to Avant!'s claims, and each intends to defend such action
vigorously. By an order dated July 13, 1996, the court bifurcated Avant!'s
counterclaim from Cadence's complaint and stayed the counterclaim pending
resolution of Cadence's complaint. The counterclaim remains stayed.

    In an order issued on December 19, 1997, as modified on January 26, 1998,
the District Court entered a preliminary injunction barring Avant! from any
further infringement of Cadence's copyrights in Design Framework II software, or
selling, licensing or copying such product derived from Design Framework II,
including, but not limited to, Avant!'s ArcCell products. On December 7, 1998,
the District Court issued a further preliminary injunction, which enjoined
Avant! from selling its Aquarius product line. Cadence posted a $10 million bond
in connection with the issuance of the preliminary injunction. On July 30, 1999,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the preliminary
injunction.

    By an order dated July 22, 1997, the District Court stayed most activity in
the case pending in that court and ordered Avant! to post a $5 million bond in
light of related criminal proceedings pending against Avant! and several of its
executives.

    On September 7, 1999, the District Court ruled on the parties' Motions for
Summary Adjudication, and granted in part, and denied in part, each party's
motion regarding the scope of a June 6, 1994 Release Agreement between the
parties. The Court held that Cadence's copyright infringement claim against
Avant! is not barred by the release and that Cadence may proceed on that claim.
The Court also held that Cadence's trade secret claim based on Avant!'s use of
Cadence's Design Framework II source code is barred by the release. The Ninth
Circuit has agreed to hear both parties' appeal from the District Court's order.
The trial date has been vacated pending a decision on the appeal. Cadence
intends to pursue its claims against Avant! vigorously.

    On April 30, 1999, Cadence and several of its officers and directors were
named as defendants in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, entitled Spett v. Cadence Design Systems, et
al., civil action no. C 99-2082. The action was brought on behalf of a class of
stockholders who purchased Cadence common stock between November 4, 1998 and
April 20, 1999, and alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The lawsuit arises out of Cadence's
announcement of its first quarter 1999 financial results. Management intends to
vigorously defend these claims.

    In February 1998, Aptix Corporation and Meta Systems, Inc. filed a lawsuit
against Quickturn Design Systems, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California. In this lawsuit, entitled Aptix Corporation and
Meta Systems, Inc. v. Quickturn Design Systems, Aptix and Meta Systems allege
infringement by Quickturn of a U.S. patent owned by Aptix and licensed to Meta.
Quickturn named Mentor Graphics Corporation as a party to this suit and filed a
counterclaim requesting the District Court to declare the Aptix patent to be
unenforceable based on inequitable conduct during the prosecution of the patent.
The case is set for trial in late 2000.

    On July 21, 1999, Mentor filed suit against Quickturn in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware, alleging patent infringement involving
Quickturn's Mercury hardware emulation systems. The complaint seeks a permanent
injunction and unspecified damages. Cadence intends to vigorously defend these
claims. On July 22, 1999, Quickturn and Cadence filed a complaint against Mentor
and Meta asking for declaratory relief in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California. The action brought by Mentor in Delaware has
been transferred to California for consolidation with Quickturn's declaratory
judgment action.

    On February 25, 2000, Cadence and several of its officers were named as
defendants in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California, entitled Maxick v. Cadence Design


Systems, Inc. File No. C 00 0658PJH. The action was brought on behalf of a class
of shareholders of OrCAD, Inc., and alleges violations of Section 14(d)(7) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 14d-10 thereunder. The
lawsuit arises out of Cadence's acquisition of OrCAD, which was completed in
August 1999. Management believes the action is without merit and intends to
vigorously defend it.

    Management believes that the ultimate resolution of the disputes and
litigation matters discussed above will not have a material adverse effect on
Cadence's business, operating results, or financial condition.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

    The executive officers of Cadence are as follows:



    Executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the
discretion of the Board.

    H. RAYMOND BINGHAM has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Cadence since April 1999. Mr. Bingham has been a director of Cadence since
November 1997. From 1993 to April 1999, Mr. Bingham served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence. Prior to joining Cadence,
Mr. Bingham was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Lion
Hotels and Inns, an owner operator of a chain of hotels, for eight years.
Mr. Bingham is a director of Legato Systems, Inc., Onyx Software Corporation,
TenFold Corporation, and Chairman of Integrated Measurement Systems, Inc.

    ADRIAAN LIGTENBERG joined Cadence in September 1999 as Senior Vice
President, Methodology Services. He was the CEO of A3Ventures, a strategic
consulting and investment company from 1997 to 1999. Prior to that, he was at
AT&T Bell Laboratories from 1984 to 1989 where he led the image system group.
From 1990 to 1997, he was the founder of Storm Technology Limited, a software
company specializing in the client/server and inter/intranet development
environments. From 1989 to 1990, he was a co-founder of C-Cube
Microsystems, Inc. He was also an associate professor of Electrical Engineering
at Princeton University and was the holder of the Computer Architecture Chair of
the University of Amsterdam.

    R.L. SMITH MCKEITHEN joined Cadence in 1996 as Vice President, General
Counsel, and Secretary and became Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and
Secretary in 1998. From 1994 to 1996, he served as Vice President, General
Counsel, and Secretary of Strategic Mapping, Inc. From 1988 to 1994, he served
as Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of Silicon Graphics, Inc.


    WILLIAM PORTER joined Cadence in 1994 as Vice President, Corporate
Controller, and Assistant Secretary and became Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in May 1999. From 1988 to 1994, Mr. Porter served as Technical
Accounting and Reporting Manager and most recently as Controller of Cupertino
Operations with Apple Computer, Inc., a personal computer company.

    MATTHEW THOMPSON joined Cadence in 1994 as Vice President, Strategic Sales
and became Senior Vice President, Worldwide Strategic Sales in 1998.
Mr. Thompson has more than 10 years of sales and management experience. Prior to
joining Cadence in 1994, he held various positions with Electronic Data Systems
Corporation, most recently as Vice President of Sales for the EDS High Tech
Business Unit.

    ROBERT WIEDERHOLD joined Cadence in 1996 as Vice President and General
Manager of the Deep Submicron Business Unit and became Senior Vice President of
Cadence Worldwide Design Services Group in July 1998. From 1994 to 1996, he
served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, and Director of
High Level Design Systems, Inc. From 1985 to 1994, he held various positions
with Cadence, most recently as Vice President, Marketing for the Systems
Divisions.

    ROBERT A. PROMM joined Cadence in December 1999 as Vice President, Corporate
Controller. From November 1997 to December 1999, Mr. Promm served as Vice
President, Corporate Controller of Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. Prior to
November 1997, Mr. Promm held several positions with Apple Computer, Inc., most
recently as Vice President, Financial Controller.


                                    PART II.

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
  MATTERS

    Cadence common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol CDN. Cadence has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its common
stock in the past, and does not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable
future. As of March 14, 2000, Cadence had approximately 1,990 registered
stockholders and estimates that it had approximately 43,466 beneficial owners of
its common stock.

    The following table sets forth the high and low sales price for Cadence
common stock for each calendar quarter in the two-year period ended January 1,
2000:




ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



- ------------------------

(1) Unusual items are as follows for each of the fiscal years 1999, 1998, 1997,
    and 1996. There were no unusual items in 1995:



(2) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting method in
    1997 excluded a $12.3 million charge, net of taxes of $5.3 million, for
    reengineering project costs that had been previously capitalized by Cadence
    associated with its implementation of enterprise-wide information systems.

(3) Net income (loss) included a $9.2 million and $13.6 million after tax gain
    on the sale of stock of a subsidiary in 1997 and 1995, respectively.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

    The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the five-year
summary of selected financial data and the Consolidated Financial Statements and
notes thereto included elsewhere herein. All references to years represent
fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Except for the historical information
contained herein, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements
based on current expectations that involve certain risks and uncertainties.
Cadence's actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein.
Factors that could cause actual results or performance to differ materially or
contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed
below in "Disclosures about Market Risk", and "Liquidity and Capital Resources".

OVERVIEW

    Cadence Design Systems, Inc., or Cadence, provides comprehensive software
and other technology and offers design and methodology services for the product
development requirements of the world's leading electronics companies. Cadence
licenses its leading-edge electronic design automation, or EDA, software and
hardware technology and provides a range of services to companies throughout the
world to


help its customers optimize their product development processes. Cadence is a
supplier of end-to-end products and services, which are used by companies to
design and develop complex chips and electronic systems including
semiconductors, computer systems and peripherals, telecommunications and
networking equipment, mobile and wireless devices, automotive electronics,
consumer products, and other advanced electronics.

    In December 1999, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Diablo
Research Company LLC for cash and assumed all outstanding stock options of
Diablo. Diablo was a high-technology engineering services firm with expertise in
wireless communication, global positioning satellite solutions, and data
transfer and home automation markets. The total purchase price was
$39.9 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    In August 1999, Cadence acquired OrCAD, Inc., a supplier of computer-aided
engineering and computer-aided design software and services for the printed
circuit board industry, for cash. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock
of OrCAD and assumed all outstanding stock options. The purchase price was
$131.4 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    In May 1999, Cadence completed its merger with Quickturn Design
Systems, Inc. Quickturn designed, manufactured, sold, and supported hardware and
software products that verify the design of computer chips and electronic
systems. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding shares of Quickturn common
stock in a tax-free, stock-for-stock transaction for approximately 24.6 million
shares of Cadence common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests. In addition, Cadence assumed all outstanding stock options
and warrants of Quickturn. All prior period consolidated financial statements
were restated as if the merger took place at the beginning of such periods, in
accordance with required pooling of interests accounting and disclosures.

    In January 1999, Cadence acquired Design Acceleration, Inc., or DAI, a
supplier of design verification technology used in system-on-a-chip, or SOC,
design. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of DAI for approximately
0.6 million shares of Cadence common stock and $2.9 million of cash. The total
purchase price was $25.7 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a
purchase.

    In September 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Ambit
Design Systems, Inc. for cash. Ambit was a leading developer of design
automation technology used in SOC design. The total purchase price was
$255 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    In September 1998, Cadence acquired the Bell Labs' Integrated Circuit Design
Automation Group of Lucent Technologies Inc., or BLDA, for cash. BLDA was a
design automation development organization that focused on the complex
verification challenges companies face when designing integrated circuits and
next-generation SOC. The total purchase price was $58 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    In March 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Excellent
Design, Inc., or EXD, for cash. EXD provided application-specific integrated
circuit, or ASIC, and SOC design and library development. The total purchase
price was $40.9 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    In February 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of
Symbionics Group Limited for approximately 1 million shares of Cadence common
stock and $21.3 million of cash. Symbionics provided product development design
services to leading electronics manufacturers. The total purchase price was
$46.1 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    In June 1997, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement among Quickturn,
Synopsys, Inc., and Arkos Design, Inc., Quickturn acquired from Synopsys certain
assets relating to Synopsys emulation business, including all the outstanding
common stock of Arkos, for approximately 0.5 million shares of Quickturn common
stock and $5 million of cash. The total purchase price was $16.7 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.


    In May 1997, Cadence merged with Cooper & Chyan Technology, Inc., or CCT,
whose software products were used to design sophisticated integrated circuits
and high-speed printed circuit boards. In connection therewith, Cadence issued
approximately 22.8 million shares of common stock. The merger was accounted for
as a pooling of interests. All prior period consolidated financial statements
were restated as if the merger took place at the beginning of such periods, in
accordance with required pooling of interests accounting and disclosures.

    In February 1997, Quickturn merged with SpeedSim, Inc., a provider of
simulation software for the verification of digital logic designs. Quickturn
acquired all of the outstanding shares of SpeedSim common stock in a tax-free,
stock-for-stock transaction for approximately 2.8 million shares of Quickturn
common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests. In
addition, Quickturn assumed all outstanding stock options of SpeedSim. All prior
period consolidated financial statements were restated as if the merger took
place at the beginning of such periods, in accordance with required pooling of
interests accounting and disclosures.

    In February 1997, Cadence and its subsidiary, Integrated Measurement
Systems, Inc., or IMS, sold to the public 1.7 million shares of IMS common
stock, of which approximately 1 million shares were sold by Cadence, netting
Cadence approximately $18.6 million in cash. As a result of the offering and
sale of shares by Cadence, Cadence's ownership interest in IMS decreased to
approximately 37% in 1997 from approximately 55% in 1996. Accordingly, Cadence
changed the accounting for its investments in IMS from consolidation to the
equity method of accounting in fiscal 1997. The likelihood of such transactions
in the future is dependent upon the state of the financial markets as well as
liquidity and other considerations of each of Cadence and IMS. IMS manufactures
and markets verification systems used in testing prototype ASICs.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    REVENUE



    SOURCES OF REVENUE AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL REVENUE



    Product revenue decreased $255.1 million in 1999, when compared to 1998,
primarily due to the implementation of Cadence's new software subscription
licensing model during the third quarter of 1999 and to a lesser extent a
decrease in sales volume of Cadence's software products. These decreases were
partially offset by an increase in emulation hardware product revenue in the
same periods and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate
differences, primarily the Japanese yen. Revenue associated with software
products under subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the license
period because the agreements allow customers to exchange licensed products for
unspecified future technology.


The decrease in sales volume of products was attributable primarily to lower
sales of integrated circuit implementation products, which include place and
route and physical design and verification tools.

    Product revenue increased $142.1 million in 1998, when compared to 1997,
primarily due to increased customer sales volume of place and route and physical
design product tools used to design deep submicron integrated circuits. This
increase was partially offset by a decrease in emulation hardware product
revenue in the same period. Total product revenue in 2000 is expected to
increase from 1999 and return to year-over-year growth in the second quarter of
2000. However, there can be no assurance that this expectation will prove
accurate and actual results may differ materially.

    Services revenue increased $29.7 million in 1999 and $96.4 million in 1998,
when compared to each prior year, which were primarily attributable to an
increase in Cadence's design and methodology services engagements. Increases in
design services revenue were due to general increases in each of the four major
areas, with the most significant increase in the wireless communications area.

    Maintenance revenue remained relatively flat in 1999 compared to 1998.
Maintenance revenue increased $44.9 million in 1998, when compared to 1997,
primarily due to continued growth of the installed customer base and the renewal
of maintenance and support contracts.

    REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY



    REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL REVENUE



    International revenue decreased $77.1 million in 1999, when compared to
1998, primarily due to decreases in product revenue in all international regions
resulting from the implementation of Cadence's new subscription licensing model
during the third quarter of 1999. The decrease in international product revenue
was partially offset by an increase in services revenue in all international
regions, except Asia.

    The increase in international revenue in 1998 of $116.4 million, when
compared to 1997, was primarily due to increased sales volume of Cadence's
products and services in Europe and of Cadence's services in Japan, partially
offset by a decrease in product sales volume in Japan. To a lesser extent,
revenue growth in 1998 was also due to additional maintenance and support
contracts in Asia and Canada.

    Other differences in the rate of revenue growth over the years presented and
as compared geographically are primarily due to fluctuations in sales and
resulting sales volume of place and route and physical design products and for
Cadence's design and methodology services offerings.

    Foreign currency exchange rates positively affected reported revenue by
$16.2 million in 1999, primarily due to the strengthening of the Japanese yen in
relation to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency exchange rates negatively affected
reported revenue by $15.4 million in 1998 primarily due to the weakening of the
Japanese yen in relation to the U.S. dollar. Additional information about
revenue by geographic areas can be found under "Segment Reporting" in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.


    COST OF REVENUE



    COST OF REVENUE AS A PERCENT OF RELATED REVENUE



    Cost of product revenue includes costs of production personnel, packaging
and documentation, royalties, and amortization of capitalized software
development costs for software products. Manufacturing costs associated with
hardware emulation system products include materials, labor, and overhead.

    Cost of product revenue increased $2 million or 3% in 1999 when compared to
1998. The increase was primarily due to increases in manufacturing expenses
associated with emulation system products, the acquisition of OrCAD in 1999, and
amortization of capitalized software development costs. These costs were offset
partially by inventory obsolescence charges of $5.7 million associated with the
introduction of the Mercury Design Verification System recorded in 1998,
reductions in purchased software amortization, and third-party royalty expenses.
Cost of product revenue increased $3.3 million or 4% in 1998 compared to 1997.
The increase was primarily due to increases in amortization of capitalized
software development costs and third-party royalty expenses, partially offset by
manufacturing cost savings for hardware emulation systems due to the
availability of less expensive and more efficient components. The manufacturing
cost savings exclude the impact of $2.6 million for the write-off of Arkos
purchased inventory and a $2 million inventory obsolescence charge caused by an
anticipated shorter product life cycle for the System Realizer emulation product
replaced by Arkos product technology.

    Because the majority of Cadence's cost of software product revenue does not
vary significantly with changes in revenue, product gross margin decreased in
1999 when compared to 1998, due primarily to lower sales of software products
and the introduction of the new subscription licensing model during the third
quarter of 1999. Product gross margin in 1999 also declined due to a higher
proportion of hardware revenue with lower gross margins than software product
revenue.

    Cost of services revenue includes costs associated with providing services
to customers, primarily salaries and costs to recruit, develop and retain
personnel, and costs to maintain the infrastructure necessary to manage a
services organization. Cost of services revenue increased $3 million or 2% in
1999, when compared to 1998, due primarily to increases in amortization of
purchased software and Japan methodology services outside commission costs,
offset partially by a decrease in employee related costs, including incentive
pay, associated primarily with Cadence's 1998 restructuring plans and lower
revenues. Cost of services revenue increased $71.4 million or 61% in 1998,
compared to 1997. This increase was due to investments made to increase services
capacity, primarily due to the addition of services professionals.

    The increase in services gross margins to 35% in 1999 as compared to 29% in
1998, was due primarily to increased utilization of services capacity and the
management of expenses. Services gross margins decreased to 29% in 1998 as
compared to 30% in 1997, primarily due to increased services capacity that was
not fully utilized. Services gross margins have been and may continue to be
adversely affected by the cost of integrating new services professionals as well
as Cadence's inability to fully utilize these resources.


In addition, services gross margins may continue to be adversely affected by
Cadence's inability to achieve operating efficiencies with its resources when
implementing a growing number of services offerings.

    Cost of maintenance revenue includes the cost of customer services, such as
hot-line and on-site support, production personnel, packaging, and documentation
of maintenance updates. Cost of maintenance revenue in absolute dollars and as a
percent of related revenue remained relatively flat in 1999 when compared to
1998. Cost of maintenance revenue increased $18.4 million or 54% in 1998, when
compared to 1997, primarily due to the investment in a new centralized customer
response center and increased support levels on a per customer basis.

    AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES



    AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL REVENUE



    Amortization of acquired intangibles increased $43.3 million in 1999, when
compared to 1998, primarily due to the 1999 acquisitions of OrCAD and DAI, and a
full year's amortization related to Cadence's 1998 acquisitions of Ambit, BLDA,
EXD, and Symbionics. Amortization of acquired intangibles increased $16 million
in 1998, when compared to 1997, primarily due to Cadence's 1998 acquisitions.
For additional information regarding these acquisitions see below under
"In-Process Technology."

    OPERATING EXPENSES



    OPERATING EXPENSES AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL REVENUE



MARKETING AND SALES

    The increase in marketing and sales expenses of $13.9 million for 1999, when
compared to 1998, was primarily due to an increase in sales support costs, the
acquisition of OrCAD, and marketing program costs, partially offset by lower
employee-related costs, resulting from Cadence's 1998 restructuring plans, lower
employee training and education costs, and travel costs. Foreign currency
exchange rates negatively affected marketing and sales expenses by $4.6 million
in 1999, when compared to 1998, primarily due to the strengthening of the
Japanese yen in relation to the U.S. dollar. The increase in marketing and sales
expenses of $40.5 million in 1998, when compared to 1997, was primarily
attributable to an increase in employee-related expenses resulting from
increased headcount and commissions, a higher level of pre-sale


activities, and an increase in consulting and outside services costs. These
increases were partially offset by the weakening of certain foreign currencies,
primarily the Japanese yen, in relation to the U.S. dollar which favorably
affected marketing and sales expenses by approximately $6.4 million in 1998 when
compared to 1997.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Cadence's expenses in research and development, prior to the reduction for
capitalization of software development costs, was $244.9 million for 1999,
$224.5 million for 1998, and $182.3 million for 1997, representing 22% of total
revenue for 1999, 17% for 1998, and 18% for 1997. Cadence capitalized software
development costs of approximately $25.7 million for 1999, $21.7 million for
1998, and $15.1 million for 1997, which represented approximately 10% of total
research and development expenditures for 1999, 10% for 1998, and 8% for 1997.
The increase in capitalized software development costs in each of these three
years resulted primarily from general increases in new product development.

    The increase in net research and development expenses of $16.4 million for
1999, when compared to 1998, was primarily attributable to higher
employee-related costs due to increases in headcount from Cadence's acquisitions
of OrCAD in 1999 and the acquisitions of Ambit and BLDA in the third quarter of
1998, partially offset by increased capitalization of software development
expenses. The increase of $35.6 million in 1998, when compared to 1997, was
primarily attributable to higher employee-related costs due to increases in
headcount, facility-related costs, consulting and other services, and management
information systems costs. The amount of capitalized software development costs
in any given period may vary depending on the exact nature of the development
performed.

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

    General and administrative expenses remained relatively flat in 1999 when
compared to 1998. General and administrative expenses increased $16.9 million in
1998, when compared to 1997, primarily as a result of increases in bad debt
expense, and legal and advisory fees incurred in connection with the unsolicited
tender offer by Mentor Graphics Corporation, and increases in consulting and
outside services costs.

UNUSUAL ITEMS

    Described below are unusual item charges in 1999, 1998, and 1997.



    IN-PROCESS TECHNOLOGY

    In August 1999, Cadence acquired OrCAD, Inc., a supplier of computer-aided
engineering and computer-aided design software and services for the printed
circuit board industry, for cash. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock
of OrCAD and assumed all outstanding OrCAD stock options. The purchase price was
$131.4 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    Upon consummation of the OrCAD acquisition, Cadence immediately charged to
expense $11.8 million representing acquired in-process technology that had not
yet reached technological feasibility and had


no alternative future use. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The
value assigned to acquired in-process technology was determined by identifying
research projects in areas for which technological feasibility has not been
established. The value was determined by estimating the costs to develop the
acquired in-process technology into commercially viable products, estimating the
resulting net cash flows from such projects, and discounting the net cash flows
back to their present value. The discount rate included a factor that took into
account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the acquired
in-process technology. Certain acquired in-process technology was commercially
viable in 1999 and other acquired in-process technology is expected to become
commercially viable in 2000. Expenditures to complete this acquired in-process
technology are expected to total approximately $2.3 million. These estimates are
subject to change, given the uncertainties of the development process, and no
assurance can be given that deviations from these estimates will not occur.
Additionally, these projects will require maintenance research and development
after they have reached a state of technological and commercial feasibility.

    At the time of its acquisition by Cadence, OrCAD's in-process research and
development projects in the schematic entry area were related to the development
of an online component catalog and a new schematic design entry interface.
In-process research and development projects in the simulation area were related
to a rearchitecture of the simulation engine and replacement of the simulation
engine. Additional features under development included randomized expressions
and no selection limits. The nature of the efforts to complete these projects
relate, in varying degrees, to the completion of all planning, designing,
prototyping, verification, and testing activities that are necessary to
establish that the proposed technologies meet their design specifications
including functional, technical, and economic performance requirements.

    The net cash flows resulting from the projects underway at OrCAD used to
value the purchased research and development were based on management's
estimates of revenue, cost of revenue, research and development costs, selling,
general and administrative costs, and income taxes from such projects. The
revenue projections were based on the potential market size that the projects
address, Cadence's ability to gain market acceptance in these segments, and the
life cycle of this in-process technology.

    Estimated total revenue from the acquired in-process technology is expected
to peak in 2001 and decline rapidly thereafter as other new products are
expected to enter the market. In addition, a portion of the anticipated revenue
had been attributed to enhancements of the base technology under development,
and had been excluded from net cash flow calculations. Existing technology was
valued at $10.8 million. The net cash flows generated from the acquired
in-process technology are expected to reflect earnings before interest, taxes,
and depreciation of approximately 32% of the sales generated from in-process
technology. However, there can be no assurance that these assumptions will prove
accurate, or that Cadence will realize the anticipated benefit of the
acquisition.

    The discount of the net cash flows to their present value was based on the
weighted average cost of capital, or WACC. The WACC calculation produces the
average required rate of return of an investment in an operating enterprise,
based on the required rates of return from investments in various areas of the
enterprise. The rate used to discount the net cash flows from purchased
in-process technology was 22%. The discount rate is sometimes higher than the
WACC due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimates, including the
uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process
technology, the useful life of such technology, the profitability levels of such
technology, if any, and the uncertainty of technological advances, all of which
are unknown at this time.

    As evidenced by its continued support for these projects, management
believes that Cadence will successfully complete each of the major OrCAD
research and development programs. However, there is risk associated with the
completion of these projects and there is no assurance that any of them will be
either technologically or commercially successful. If these projects are not
successfully developed, future


revenue, and profitability of Cadence may be materially adversely affected.
Additionally, the value of other intangible assets acquired may become impaired.

    To date, OrCAD's results have not differed significantly from the forecast
assumptions. In addition, Cadence's research and development expenditures since
the acquisition have not differed materially from expectations. Revenue
contribution from the acquired technology falls within an acceptable range of
plans in its role in Cadence's suite of design systems and tools. The risks
associated with this research and development are still considered high and no
assurance can be made that these products will meet market expectations.

    In January 1999, Cadence acquired DAI, a supplier of design verification
technology used in SOC design. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of
DAI for approximately 0.6 million shares of Cadence common stock and
$2.9 million of cash. The total purchase price was $25.7 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    Upon consummation of the DAI acquisition, Cadence immediately charged to
expense $8.9 million representing acquired in-process technology that had not
yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. See
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The value assigned to acquired
in-process technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas
for which technological feasibility has not been established. The value was
determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology
into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from
such projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value.
The discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology.
Certain acquired in-process technology under development at the time of
acquisition was initially expected to become commercially viable in 1999, but
has since been delayed to 2000 and 2001. Expenditures to complete this
in-process technology are expected to total approximately $1.5 million. These
estimates are subject to change, given the uncertainties of the development
process, and no assurance can be given that deviations from these estimates will
not occur. Additionally, these projects will require expenditures for additional
research and development after they have reached a state of technological and
commercial feasibility.

    At the time of its acquisition by Cadence, DAI had several significant
research and development projects in process that were intended to provide a
next generation environment for design verification and analysis. These efforts
included the development of a highly automated approach for high-level test
bench creation and analysis, which Cadence expects to become commercially viable
in 2000, a waveform viewer capable of supporting analog and mixed signal
designs, which Cadence expects to become commercially viable in 2001, and a tool
designed to analyze verification code coverage at the transactional level which
was commercially viable in 1999. The nature of the efforts to complete these
in-process research and development projects relate, in varying degrees, to the
completion of all planning, designing, prototyping, verification, and testing
activities that are necessary to establish that the proposed in-process
technologies meet their design specifications, which include functional,
technical, and economic performance requirements.

    The net cash flows generated by the projects underway at DAI used to value
the acquired in-process technology, were based on management's estimates of
revenue, cost of revenue, research and development costs, selling, general and
administrative costs, and income taxes from such projects. The revenue
projections were based on the potential market size for which these projects
address, Cadence's ability to gain market acceptance for these projects, and the
life cycle of this in-process technology.

    Estimated total revenue from the acquired in-process technology is expected
to peak in 2001 through 2002 and decline rapidly thereafter as other new
products are expected to enter the market. In addition, a portion of the
anticipated revenue has been attributed to enhancements of the base technology
under development, and has been excluded from net cash flow calculations.
Existing technology was valued at $11.4 million. The net cash flows generated
from the acquired in-process technology are expected to reflect


earnings before interest, taxes, and depreciation of approximately 60% of the
sales generated from in-process technology. However, there can be no assurance
that these assumptions will prove accurate, or that Cadence will realize the
anticipated benefits of this acquisition.

    The discount applied to the net cash flows to calculate the present value of
such net cash flows was based on the WACC. The rate used to discount the net
cash flows from purchased in-process technology was 22%.

    As evidenced by its continued support for these projects, management
believes Cadence will successfully complete each of these DAI projects. However,
there is risk associated with the completion of these projects and there is no
assurance that any of them will be either technologically or commercially
successful. If these projects are not successfully developed, Cadence's
business, operating results, and financial condition may be harmed. In addition,
the value of other intangible assets acquired may become impaired.

    To date, DAI's results have not differed significantly from the forecasted
assumptions. In addition, Cadence's research and development expenditures since
the acquisition have not differed materially from expectations. Revenue
contribution from the acquired technology falls within an acceptable range of
plans in its role in Cadence's suite of design systems and tools. The risks
associated with the research and development are still considered high and no
assurance can be made that these future products will meet market expectations.

    In September 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Ambit
for cash. Ambit was a leading developer of design automation technology used in
SOC design. The total purchase price was $255 million and the acquisition was
accounted for as a purchase.

    Upon consummation of the Ambit acquisition, Cadence immediately charged to
expense $106.5 million representing acquired in-process technology that had not
yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. See
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology.
The acquired in-process technology was commercially viable in 1999, with the
exception of one module, called Datapath Compiler, which is expected to become
commercially viable by early 2001. BuildGates 3.0 and Physically Knowledgeable
Synthesis were commercially viable in 1999. Expenditures to complete all
in-process technology are expected to total approximately $15 million.
Additionally, these projects will require maintenance research and development
after they have reached a state of technological and commercial feasibility.

    At the time of its acquisition by Cadence, Ambit was working on several
significant research and development projects that were intended to provide the
next generation version of its existing product, BuildGates 2.2. The nature of
the efforts to complete the next generation version of BuildGates relate to the
completion of all planning, designing, prototyping, verification, and testing
activities that are necessary to establish that the proposed technologies meet
their design specifications, including functional, technical, and economic
performance requirements.

    Cadence expects Ambit's creation of a fundamentally new approach to
synthesis in deep submicron and in SOC to create the opportunity for additional
consulting services revenue through the creation of an integrated, next
generation version of BuildGates.

    In September 1998, Cadence acquired BLDA for cash. BLDA was a design
automation development organization that focused on the complex verification
challenges companies face when designing integrated circuits and next-generation
SOC. The total purchase price was $58 million and the acquisition was accounted
for as a purchase.


    Upon consummation of the BLDA acquisition, Cadence immediately charged to
expense $30.3 million representing acquired in-process technology that had not
yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. See
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate includes a factor that takes into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology.
The acquired in-process technology is expected to become commercially viable in
2000. Expenditures to complete this in-process technology are expected to total
approximately $5 million. These estimates are subject to change, given the
uncertainties of the development process, and deviations from these estimates
may occur. Additionally, these projects will require maintenance research and
development after they have reached a state of technological and commercial
feasibility.

    BLDA's in-process research and development projects were related to its
Formalcheck and Clover technologies. BLDA had two major enhancements underway
for Formalcheck. This effort was expected to yield a revenue-generating product
in 2000. BLDA's research and development related to Clover involved the design
and development of new Design Rule Checking and Parasitic Extraction tools,
which were expected to substantially improve the performance and functionality
of the technology. This effort was completed in 1999. The nature of the efforts
to complete the next generation version of Formalcheck and Clover relate to the
completion of all planning, designing, prototyping, verification, and testing
activities that are necessary to establish that the proposed technologies meet
their design specifications, including functional, technical, and economic
performance requirements.

    As evidenced by its continued support for these projects, management
believes Cadence is well positioned to successfully complete each of the major
research and development programs. However, there is risk associated with the
completion of these projects and there is no assurance that any of them will be
either technologically or commercially successful.

    The net cash flows resulting from the projects underway at Ambit and BLDA
used to value the purchased research and development were based on management's
estimates of revenue, cost of revenue, research and development costs, selling,
general and administrative costs, and income taxes from such projects. The
revenue projections are based on the potential market size that the projects
address, Cadence's ability to gain market acceptance for these projects, and the
life cycle of this in-process technology.

    Estimated total revenue from the acquired in-process technology is expected
to peak in 2003 through 2004 and decline rapidly in 2005 and 2006 as other new
products enter the market. In addition, a portion of the anticipated revenue has
been attributed to enhancements of the base technology under development, and
has been excluded from net cash flow calculations. Existing technology was
valued at $50.3 million in connection with the Ambit acquisition and
$23.2 million in connection with the BLDA acquisition. There can be no assurance
that these assumptions will prove accurate, or that Cadence will realize the
anticipated benefit of the acquisitions. The net cash flows generated from the
acquired in-process technology are expected to reflect earnings before interest,
taxes, and depreciation of approximately 38% to 49% of the sales generated from
this in-process technology.

    The discount of the net cash flows to their present value was based on the
WACC. The discount rates used to discount the net cash flows from acquired
in-process technology were 28% for Ambit and 25% for BLDA. These discount rates
reflect the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the acquired
in-process technology, the useful life of such technology, the profitability
levels of such technology, if any, and the uncertainty of technological
advances, all of which are unknown at this time.

    If these projects are not successfully developed, Cadence's business,
operating results, and financial condition may be negatively affected. In
addition, the value of other intangible assets acquired may become impaired.


    To date, Ambit's and BLDA's results have not differed significantly from the
forecasted assumptions. Cadence's research and development expenditures since
the acquisitions have not differed materially from expectations. The risks
associated with the research and development are still considered high and no
assurance can be made that upcoming products will meet market expectations.

    In March 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of EXD. EXD
provided application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, and SOC design and
library development. The total purchase price was $40.9 million in cash and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    Upon consummation of the EXD acquisition, Cadence immediately charged to
expense $28.4 million representing acquired in-process technology that had not
yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. See
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology.
The in-process projects were expected to be commercially viable on dates ranging
from the end of 1998 through 2000. However, the progression of these projects
became impaired in the fourth quarter of 1999 as discussed further below.

    At the time of its acquisition by Cadence, EXD had several significant
research and development projects in process that, if successful, would have
represented the introduction of new products and technologies to meet future
market needs. These efforts included the development of new tools for library
generation, delay calculation, memory compilation, and semiconductor
intellectual property technology. These new technologies were intended to be
fully supportive of deep submicron design functions, which are a critical market
requirement. The nature of the efforts required to complete these research and
development projects relate, to varying degrees, to the completion of all
planning, designing, prototyping, verification, and testing activities that are
necessary to establish that the proposed technologies meet their design
specifications, including functional, technical, and economic performance
requirements.

    The successful completion of the EXD acquired in-process projects has been
impaired and as a result differed significantly from the forecasted assumptions.
In the fourth quarter of 1999, Cadence recorded a $13.3 million asset impairment
charge. This asset impairment charge resulted from reduced Japanese market
opportunities and the loss of key EXD employees resulting in diminished cash
flow projections. Cadence entered into certain support agreements with external
parties to provide support for EXD software tools previously sold to Cadence
customers. The fair value of the EXD acquired intangibles was based on an
evaluation of the present value of their estimated expected future cash flows,
discounted at 16%.

    In February 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of
Symbionics for approximately 1 million shares of Cadence common stock and
$21.3 million of cash. Symbionics provided product development design services
to leading electronics manufacturers. The total purchase price was
$46.1 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.

    Upon consummation of the Symbionics acquisition, Cadence immediately charged
to expense $28.5 million representing acquired in-process technology that had
not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. See
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology.
The in-process projects were commercially viable by the end of 1999.
Expenditures to complete these projects did not exceed $6 million.


    At the time of its acquisition by Cadence, Symbionics was working on several
significant research and development projects that, if successful, would meet
future market needs. These efforts involve digital television, wireless home
networking, cellular roaming and digital voice technologies, which were intended
to ensure the long-term success and survival of the organization. The nature of
the efforts required to complete the research and development projects relate,
to varying degrees, to the completion of all planning, designing, prototyping,
verification, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the
proposed technologies meet their design specifications, including functional,
technical, and economic performance requirements.

    The net cash flows resulting from the projects which were underway at
Symbionics used to value the acquired in-process technology at the time of
acquisition were based on management's estimates of revenue, cost of revenue,
research and development costs, selling, general and administrative costs, and
income taxes from such projects. The revenue projections are based on the
potential market size that the projects address, Cadence's ability to gain
market acceptance in these segments and the life cycle of this in-process
technology.

    Estimated total revenue at the time of acquisition from the acquired
in-process technology is expected to peak in 2001 and 2002 and decline rapidly
thereafter as other new products enter the market. In addition, a portion of the
anticipated revenue has been attributed to enhancements of the base technology
under development, and has been excluded from net cash flow calculations.
Existing technology was valued at $6 million. There can be no assurance that
these assumptions will prove accurate, or that Cadence will realize the
anticipated benefit of the acquisition. The net cash flows generated from the
acquired in-process technology are expected to reflect earnings before interest
and taxes are estimated to be approximately 39% for the sales generated from
Symbionics' in-process technology.

    The discount applied to the net cash flows to calculate their present value
was based on the WACC at the time of acquisition. The discount rates used to
discount the net cash flows from the acquired in-process technology range from
22.5% to 27.5%. The discount rates are sometimes higher than the WACC due to the
inherent uncertainties in the estimates, including the uncertainty surrounding
the successful development of the acquired in-process technology, the useful
life of such technology, the profitability levels of such technology, if any,
and the uncertainty of technological advances, all of which are unknown at this
time.

    In 1997, Cadence wrote off $9.3 million of acquired in-process technology
associated with its acquisitions of Synthesia AB, Advanced Microelectronics, and
Arkos. These costs reflected in-process technology that had not reached
technological feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable
alternative future use.

    ASSET IMPAIRMENT

    In 1999, Cadence incurred charges totaling $19.9 million in asset impairment
charges. Of this amount, $13.3 million represented asset impairment of acquired
intangibles from the EXD acquisition. This asset impairment charge resulted from
reduced Japanese market opportunities and the loss of key EXD employees
resulting in diminished cash flow projections. Cadence entered into certain
support agreements with external parties to provide support for EXD software
tools previously sold to Cadence customers. The fair value of the EXD acquired
intangibles was based on an evaluation of the present value of the estimated
expected future cash flows, discounted at 16%. The remaining $6.6 million in
asset impairment charges were incurred in connection with the cancellation of an
information technology services contract with a third-party, the abandonment of
capitalized software development costs associated with certain Cadence products
that will no longer be sold, and the abandonment of certain third-party software
licenses that will no longer be used by Cadence's design services business.

    In 1997, Cadence wrote-off capitalized software development costs of
$3.1 million for products developed by Cadence that were replaced by CCT
products or by license of replacement technology.


    The impairment losses recorded were the amounts by which the carrying
amounts of the intangible assets exceeded their fair market values.

    RESTRUCTURING

    In 1999, Cadence recorded $13.3 million of restructuring charges which
consisted of $11.3 million to terminate approximately 100 employees and
$2 million to downsize and close excess facilities. Cadence's restructuring
plans were primarily aimed at reducing costs after Cadence merged with
Quickturn, further restructuring of Cadence's services business in Japan, and
severance resulting from the resignation of Cadence's former Chief Executive
Officer. Severance costs include severance benefits, notice pay, and
outplacement services. All terminations and termination benefits were
communicated to the affected employees prior to year-end and all remaining
severance benefits are expected to be paid in 2000.

    Facilities consolidation charges of $2 million were incurred in connection
with the closure of 15 Quickturn facilities, including $1 million to close
duplicate and excess facilities and $1 million of abandonment costs for the
related leasehold improvements. Closure and exit costs include payments required
under lease contracts, less any applicable sublease income, after the properties
were abandoned, lease buyout costs, restoration costs associated with certain
lease arrangements, and costs to maintain facilities during the period after
abandonment. Asset related costs written-off consist of leasehold improvements
of facilities that were abandoned and whose estimated fair market value is zero.
As of January 1, 2000, approximately 80% of the 15 Quickturn sites had been
vacated. Noncancelable lease payments on vacated facilities will be paid out
through 2003.

    In 1998, Cadence recorded $69.5 million of restructuring charges primarily
associated with Cadence's worldwide restructuring plan announced in the second
half of 1998. Cadence's restructuring plans and associated costs consisted of
$36.9 million to terminate approximately 700 employees, $29.9 million to
downsize and close excess facilities, and $2.7 million of other restructuring
expenses. Cadence's restructuring plan was primarily aimed at reducing the cost
of excess personnel and capacity in its services business. A discussion about
Cadence's gross margin trends for its services business can be found under "Cost
of Revenue" within this section. Severance costs included severance benefits,
notice pay, and outplacement services. In 1998, approximately $10.1 million of
these costs resulted from the acceleration of stock options vesting under
employment agreements. All terminations and termination benefits were
communicated to the affected employees prior to year-end and all remaining
severance benefits were substantially paid in 1999.

    Facilities consolidation charges of $29.9 million were incurred in
connection with the closure of 58 sales and engineering facilities, including
$16.7 million to downsize and close facilities and $13.2 million in abandonment
costs for the related leasehold improvements. Closure and exit costs included
payments required under lease contracts, less any applicable sublease income,
after the properties were abandoned, lease buyout costs, restoration costs
associated with certain lease arrangements, and costs to maintain facilities
during the period after abandonment. Asset related costs written-off consist of
leasehold improvements of facilities that were abandoned and whose estimated
fair market value is zero. As of January 1, 2000, substantially all of the 58
sites had been vacated. Noncancelable lease payments on vacated facilities will
be paid out through 2008.

    Cadence also recorded $2.7 million of other restructuring charges consisting
primarily of cancellation fees associated with certain vendor and conference
arrangements and abandoned software.

    In 1997, Cadence recorded restructuring charges of $24.1 million. These
charges relate to restructuring plans primarily aimed at reducing costs after
Cadence merged with CCT and acquired HLDS. Cadence's restructuring plans and
associated costs consisted of $11.9 million to terminate approximately 230
employees, $4.4 million to close duplicate and excess facilities, and
$3.7 million of other expenses associated with the business combinations. Also
included in the restructuring costs were professional fees of $4.1 million for
financial advisors, attorneys, and accountants related to the international
restructuring


program. The remaining severance balances were paid out in 1998 and all
facilities were vacated. Noncancelable lease payments on vacated facilities will
be paid out through 2000.

    Liabilities for excess facilities and other restructuring charges are
included in accrued and other long-term liabilities while severance and benefits
liabilities are included in payroll and payroll related accruals. Actual amounts
of termination benefits, facilities and other restructuring related payments can
be found in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under "Restructuring."

    MERGER COSTS

    In connection with acquisitions in 1999 and 1997, Cadence charged to expense
Quickturn merger costs of $8.4 million and CCT and SpeedSim merger costs of
$11.5 million, representing professional fees for financial advisors, attorneys,
and accountants.

    LITIGATION SETTLEMENT

    In 1999, Cadence and Mentor announced the settlement of a patent
infringement action pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Oregon. As a result, the Court entered a judgment declaring that certain
Quickturn patents are valid, enforceable, and were infringed by Mentor's sale of
SimExpress products in the U.S. Mentor is permanently enjoined from producing,
marketing, or selling SimExpress emulation systems in the U.S. In connection
with the settlement, Mentor paid Cadence $3 million.

OTHER INCOME, NET

    Other income, net for 1999, 1998, and 1997 is as follows:



    Other income, net decreased $9.2 million and $17.8 million in 1999 and 1998,
respectively, when compared to each prior year. The reductions were primarily
attributable to interest income reductions in 1999 and 1998 of $8.1 million and
$7.4 million, respectively, when compared to each prior year, which were
primarily due to lower average cash and investment balances due in part to the
payments made for acquisitions. Additionally, in February 1997, Cadence and IMS
sold to the public 1.7 million shares of IMS common stock at $20.75 per share,
of which 1 million shares were sold by Cadence, netting Cadence $18.6 million in
cash. In connection with this transaction, Cadence recorded a pre-tax realized
gain of $13.1 million, which is included in other income, net in the
consolidated statements of operations which further reduced other income, net in
1998. Cadence also recorded in 1998 a $2.3 million unrealized gain, net of
deferred taxes, which represented Cadence's proportionate share of IMS' equity
as a result of IMS' sale of stock. This unrealized gain is reflected in the
consolidated statements of stockholders' equity. The likelihood of such
transactions in the future is dependent upon the state of the financial markets,
as well as liquidity and other considerations of each of Cadence and IMS.

    The loss on foreign exchange increased in 1999, when compared to 1998, due
to the expense of option premiums in relation to Cadence's hedging program. The
gain on foreign exchange increased in 1998,


when compared to 1997, due to favorable exchange rate movements for Asian
currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. Other expense in 1999, 1998, and 1997
was due primarily to investment losses from a venture capital partnership.

INCOME TAXES

    The provision for income taxes and the effective tax rates for 1999, 1998,
and 1997 are as follows:



- ------------------------

(1) Includes tax benefit in 1997 of $5.3 million on cumulative effect of change
    in accounting method.

    At January 1, 2000, Cadence had total net deferred tax assets of
approximately $53.6 million. Realization of the deferred tax assets will be
dependent on generating sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of
certain net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The net valuation
allowance increased by $11.4 million in 2000 due to the uncertainty of certain
foreign subsidiaries generating sufficient taxable income to realize certain
foreign deferred tax assets. Although realization is not assured, management
believes that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will
be realized. The amount of the net deferred tax assets, however, could be
reduced or increased in the near term if actual facts, including the estimate of
future taxable income, differ from those estimated.

    The effective tax rate includes the write-off of acquired in-process
technology of approximately $20.7 million for 1999, $194.1 million for 1998, and
$9.3 million for 1997. The effective tax rates, excluding the write-off of
acquired in-process technology, were 28.9% for 1999, 28.4% for 1998, and 28.5%
for 1997.

CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING METHOD

    In November 1997, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Ruling 97-13 "Accounting for Costs Incurred in Connection
with a Consulting Contract or an Internal Project That Combines Business Process
Reengineering and Information Technology Transformation," which requires
companies to expense costs incurred for business process reengineering projects.
As a result, Cadence recorded a $12.3 million charge in 1997, net of taxes of
$5.3 million, as a cumulative effect of change in accounting method for
reengineering project costs that had been previously capitalized by Cadence
associated with its implementation of enterprise-wide information systems.

DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    INTEREST RATE RISK

    Cadence's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to its investment portfolio and long-term debt obligations. While
Cadence is exposed with respect to interest rate fluctuations in many of the
world's leading industrialized countries, Cadence's interest income and expense
is most sensitive to fluctuations in the general level of U.S. interest rates.
In this regard, changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on
Cadence's cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, and
interest paid on its long-term debt obligations as well as costs associated with
foreign currency hedges.

    Cadence invests in high quality credit issuers and, by policy, limits the
amount of its credit exposure to any one issuer. As stated in its policy,
Cadence's first priority is to reduce the risk of principal loss. Consequently,
Cadence seeks to preserve its invested funds by limiting default risk, market
risk, and reinvestment risk. Cadence mitigates default risk by investing in only
high quality credit securities that it believes to be low risk and by
positioning its portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in


a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes
only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to ensure
portfolio liquidity.

    In October 1998, Cadence entered into a senior unsecured credit facility,
referred to as the 1998 Facility, with a syndicate of banks that allows Cadence
to borrow up to $355 million. As amended in September and November of 1999, the
1998 Facility is divided between a $177.5 million two year revolving credit
facility, or the Two Year Facility, and a $177.5 million 364-day revolving
credit facility convertible into a one year term loan, or the 364-Day Facility.
The Two Year Facility expires on September 29, 2001. The 364-Day Facility will
either expire on September 27, 2000, be converted to a one year term loan with a
maturity date of September 27, 2001, or, at the request of Cadence and with the
agreement of the bank group, be renewed for an additional one year. Cadence has
the option to pay interest based on LIBOR plus a spread of between 1.25% and
1.50%, based on a pricing grid tied to a financial covenant, or the higher of
the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% or the prime rate. As a result, Cadence's
interest rate expenses associated with this borrowing will vary with market
rates. In addition, commitment fees are payable on the unutilized portions of
the Two Year Facility at rates between 0.23% and 0.30% based on a pricing grid
tied to a financial covenant and on the unutilized portion of the 364-Day
Facility at a fixed rate of 0.18%. The 1998 Facility contains certain financial
and other covenants.

    The table below presents the carrying value and related weighted average
interest rates for Cadence's investment portfolio and its long-term debt
obligations. All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three
months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents;
investments with original maturities between three and 12 months are considered
to be short-term investments. Investments with original maturities greater than
12 months are considered non-current assets. As of January 1, 2000,
substantially all of Cadence's investments have maturities less than 12 months.
The carrying value approximated fair value at January 1, 2000.



    INTEREST RATE SWAP RISK

    Cadence entered into a 4.8% fixed interest rate-swap in connection with its
accounts receivable financing program to modify the interest rate
characteristics of the receivables sold to a financing institution on a
non-recourse basis. At January 1, 2000, the notional amount payable was
$17.3 million which will be amortized in quarterly installments of approximately
$2.2 million through October 2001. The estimated fair value at January 1, 2000
was $0.3 million.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

    Cadence's operations include transactions in foreign currencies and, as
such, Cadence benefits from a weaker dollar and is adversely affected by a
stronger dollar relative to major currencies worldwide.


Accordingly, the primary effect of foreign currency transactions on Cadence's
results of operations is a reduction in revenue from a strengthening U.S.
dollar, offset by a smaller reduction in expenses.

    Cadence enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and
purchases foreign currency put options with financial institutions primarily to
protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and
liabilities and probable but not firmly committed transactions, respectively.
Forward contracts are not accounted for as hedges and, therefore, the unrealized
gains and losses are recognized in other income, net in advance of the actual
foreign currency cash flows with the fair value of these forward contracts being
recorded as accrued liabilities.

    Cadence purchases put options to hedge the currency exchange risks
associated with probable but not firmly committed transactions. Probable but not
firmly committed transactions consist of revenue from Cadence's products and
maintenance contracts in a currency other than the functional currency. These
transactions are made through Cadence's subsidiaries in Ireland and Japan. The
premium costs of the put options are recorded in other current assets while the
gains and losses are deferred and recognized in income in the same period as the
hedged transaction. Gains and losses on accounting hedges realized before the
settlement date of the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred
and recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. Cadence
does not use forward contracts and put options for trading purposes. Cadence's
ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend
on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the forward
contracts and put options mature.

    The table below provides information as of January 1, 2000 about Cadence's
forward contracts and put options. The information is provided in U.S. dollar
equivalent amounts. The table presents the notional amounts, at contract
exchange rates, and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange
rates. These forward contracts matured prior to January 15, 2000. The put
options mature prior to September 30, 2000.



    While Cadence actively manages its foreign currency risks on an ongoing
basis, there can be no assurance that Cadence's foreign currency hedging
activities will substantially offset the impact of fluctuations in currency
exchange rates on its results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.
On a net basis, foreign currency fluctuations did have a material impact on
Cadence's results of operations and financial position during the year ended
January 1, 2000. The realized gain (loss) on the forward contracts as they
matured was not material to the consolidated operations of Cadence.


    EQUITY PRICE RISK

    As part of its authorized repurchase program, Cadence has sold put warrants
and purchased call options through private placements. The put warrants, if
exercised, would entitle the holder to sell shares of Cadence common stock to
Cadence at a specified price. Similarly, the call options entitle Cadence to buy
shares of Cadence common stock at a specified price.

    Cadence repurchases shares of its common stock under stock repurchase
programs for issuance under its Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, and its
1997 Stock Option Plan, referred to as the 1997 Plan and its 2000 Stock Option
Plan adopted in January 2000. As part of these repurchase programs, Cadence has
purchased and will purchase call options or has sold and will sell put warrants.
These transactions may result in sales of a large number of shares and
consequent decline in the market price of Cadence common stock. Cadence's stock
repurchase program includes the following characteristics:

    - Call options allow Cadence to buy shares of its common stock on a
      specified day at a specified price. If the market price of the stock is
      greater than the exercise price of a call option, Cadence will typically
      exercise the option and receive shares of its stock. If the market price
      of the common stock is less than the exercise price of a call option,
      Cadence typically will not exercise the option.

    - Call option issuers may accumulate a substantial number of shares of
      Cadence common stock in anticipation of Cadence's exercising its call
      option and may dispose of these shares if and when Cadence fails to
      exercise its call option. This could cause the market price of Cadence
      common stock to fall.

    - Put warrants allow the holder to sell to Cadence shares of Cadence common
      stock on a specified day at a specified price. Cadence has the right to
      settle the put warrants with shares of Cadence common stock valued at the
      difference between the exercise price and the fair value of the stock at
      the date of exercise.

    - Depending on the exercise price of the put warrants and the market price
      of Cadence common stock at the time of exercise, settlement of the put
      warrants with Cadence common stock could cause Cadence to issue a
      substantial number of shares to the holder of the put warrant. The holder
      may sell these shares in the open market, which could cause the price of
      Cadence common stock to fall.

    - Put warrant holders may accumulate a substantial number of shares of
      Cadence common stock in anticipation of exercising their put warrants and
      may dispose of these shares if and when they exercise their put warrants
      and Cadence issues shares in settlement of their put warrants. This could
      also cause the market price of Cadence common stock to fall.

    The table below provides information at January 1, 2000 about Cadence's
outstanding put warrants and call options. The table presents the contract
amounts and the weighted average strike prices. The put warrants and call
options expired in February 2000 and Cadence had the contractual ability to
settle the options prior to their maturity.




YEAR 2000 UPDATE

    Cadence has completed all of its Year 2000 projects as scheduled
significantly reducing the uncertainty of significant Year 2000 interruptions.
To date, Cadence's products, business systems, and operations have not
experienced any significant Year 2000 related problems. Cadence is not aware
that any of its major customers or third-party suppliers have experienced
significant Year 2000 related problems.

    To address Year 2000 issues, Cadence initiated a program designed to address
the most critical Year 2000 items that would affect Cadence's products, its
business systems, and the operations of its research and development, finance,
sales, manufacturing, and human resources functions. Cadence also worked with
critical suppliers and customers to determine that such suppliers' and
customers' operations and the products and services are Year 2000 capable or to
monitor their progress towards Year 2000 capability.

    Cadence's Year 2000 efforts included a program to inventory, assess,
remediate, and test the Year 2000 capability of its products. As a result of
those efforts, Cadence verified that the most current release of Cadence's
software products, as set forth in the Year 2000 Software Compliance List, which
is available on Cadence's web site, were Year 2000 Compliant. Cadence uses the
term Year 2000 Compliant to mean that the software will not: (A) cease to
perform due solely to a change in date to or after January 1, 2000, or
(B) generate incorrect or ambiguous data or results with respect to same-century
and/or multi-century formulas, functions, date values, and date data interfaces.
Cadence does not believe that customers are using a significant amount of
products that are not determined to be Year 2000 Compliant.

    Year 2000 related costs to resolve the readiness issues are not expected to
exceed $13 million throughout the term of the project. Cadence expects this
project to be completed in 2000.

    Although Cadence has successfully modified its products and business
systems, there may still be undetected failures or defects associated with Year
2000 functions. The failure to correct a material Year 2000 problem could result
in an interruption in, or a failure of, certain normal business activities or
operations of Cadence. The reasonably likely worst case scenario associated with
Cadence products for a Year 2000 problem is that a customer project could be
delayed for a short period of time before the problem can be identified and
remediated by Cadence's support process.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    At January 1, 2000, Cadence's principal sources of liquidity consisted of
$118.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, as
compared with $249.5 million at January 2, 1999, and $336.4 million at
January 3, 1998, and the 1998 Facility. As of January 1, 2000, Cadence had
outstanding borrowings of $20 million under the Two Year Facility. Cadence had
no outstanding borrowings under the 364-Day Facility.

    Cash provided by operating activities decreased $100 million to
$127 million in the year ended January 1, 2000 as compared to the year ended
January 2, 1999, primarily due to a decrease in net income before unusual items,
decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and income taxes payable,
partially offset by increases in depreciation and amortization, receivables,
installment contract receivables, and deferred revenue. Cash provided by
operating activities increased $32.5 million to $227 million for the year ended
January 2, 1999 as compared to the year ended January 3, 1998. The increase was
primarily due to increases in net income before unusual items, depreciation and
amortization, deferred income taxes, and prepaid expenses and other, partially
offset by decreases in receivables, installment contract receivables, and
accounts payable and accrued liabilities.

    At January 1, 2000, Cadence had net working capital of $58.4 million, as
compared with $294.3 million at January 2, 1999. The primary reasons for the
decrease were decreases in short-term investments of $33 million, cash and cash
equivalents of $97.7 million, accounts receivable of $57.1 million, increases in
accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $23 million, and a deferred revenue
increase of $45.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in income taxes
payable of $21.2 million. The increase in accounts payable


and accrued liabilities was primarily attributable to bonus and commissions
payments to be paid in early 2000, accounts payable to vendor accruals and
accrued consulting services, offset partially by reductions in restructure
related accruals.

    In addition to its short-term investments, Cadence's primary investing
activities consisted of acquisitions and the related acquired intangibles,
purchases of property, plant, and equipment, capitalization of software
development costs, and venture capital partnership investments, which combined
represented $306.8 million at January 1, 2000, $591.3 million at January 2,
1999, and $132.7 million at January 3, 1998 of cash used for investing
activities.

    In connection with the consummation of the merger with Quickturn, Cadence
rescinded its stock repurchase program, with the exception of continued
systematic stock repurchases under its seasoned stock repurchase programs for
Cadence's 1997 Plan and ESPP. In 1999, the Board of Directors approved a
10,000,000 share expansion of Cadence's existing seasoned systematic repurchase
program to meet the share issuance requirements of Cadence's 1997 Plan. In
February 2000, the Board of Directors approved a 15,000,000 share increase for
stock repurchases. This increase included authorization to repurchase 5,000,000
shares on a systematic basis to meet share issuance requirements of Cadence's
newly adopted 2000 Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan and authorization to
repurchase 10,000,000 shares on a non-systematic basis to be used for general
corporate purposes. Cadence is now authorized to repurchase an aggregate of
13,000,000 shares for the 1997 Plan, 5,000,000 for its 2000 Plan, 13,400,000
shares for the ESPP, and 10,000,000 shares for general corporate purposes.

    Cadence sells put warrants and purchased call options through private
placements. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." At January 1,
2000, Cadence had a maximum potential obligation related to put warrants to buy
back 1.6 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate price of
approximately $21.1 million. These put warrants expired in February 2000.
Subsequently, Cadence has sold put warrants entitling the holder to sell to
Cadence 7.6 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate price of
approximately $159.8 million and purchased call options entitling Cadence to
purchase 5.8 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate price of
approximately $121.6 million. The put warrants and call options expire at
various dates through November 2000 and Cadence has the contractual ability to
settle the put warrants and call options prior to their maturity. Cadence has
the ability to settle these put warrants with stock and, therefore, no amount
was classified out of stockholders' equity in Cadence's consolidated balance
sheets.

    As part of its overall investment strategy, Cadence has become a limited
partner in a venture capital fund and is committed to invest up to
$100 million. As of January 1, 2000, Cadence had contributed approximately
$33.2 million to this partnership for venture funding, which is reflected in
other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, net of operating
losses.

    In October 1998, Cadence entered into a senior unsecured credit facility,
referred to as the 1998 Facility, with a syndicate of banks that allows Cadence
to borrow up to $355 million. As amended in September and November of 1999, the
1998 Facility is divided between a $177.5 million two year revolving credit
facility, or the Two Year Facility, and a $177.5 million 364-day revolving
credit facility convertible into a one year term loan, or the 364-Day Facility.
The Two Year Facility expires on September 29, 2001. The 364-Day Facility will
either expire on September 27, 2000, be converted to a one year term loan with a
maturity date of September 27, 2001, or, at the request of Cadence and with the
agreement of the bank group, be renewed for an additional one year. Cadence has
the option to pay interest based on LIBOR plus a spread of between 1.25% and
1.50%, based on a pricing grid tied to a financial covenant, or the higher of
the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% or the prime rate. As a result, Cadence's
interest rate expenses associated with this borrowing will vary with market
rates. In addition, commitment fees are payable on the unutilized portions of
the Two Year Facility at rates between 0.23% and 0.30% based on a pricing grid
tied to a financial covenant and on the unutilized portion of the 364-Day
Facility at a fixed rate of 0.18%. The 1998 Facility contains certain financial
and other covenants.


    Cadence anticipates that current cash and short-term investment balances,
cash flow from operations, and the remaining amounts available under the 1998
Facility will be sufficient to meet its working capital and capital requirements
on a short-and long-term basis.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. It
requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in
earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and that a company
must formally document, designate, and assess the effectiveness of transactions
that receive hedge accounting. In June 1999, SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral of the Effective Date of
FASB Statement No. 133," was issued. The statement defers the effective date of
SFAS No. 133 until the first quarter of fiscal 2001. Cadence has not yet
determined the effect SFAS No. 133 will have on its financial position, results
of operations, or cash flows.

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, "Revenue Recognition." SAB 101 provides
guidance on the recognition, presentation, and disclosure of revenue in
financial statements and is effective for the first quarter of Fiscal 2000.
Cadence has not yet determined the effect SAB 101 will have on its financial
position or results of operations.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The information required by Item 7A is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled "Disclosures About Market Risk" found in Item 7 "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The financial statements required by Item 8 are submitted as a separate
section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 14.

SUMMARY QUARTERLY DATA--UNAUDITED



- ------------------------------
(1) Income (loss) from operations for 1999 and 1998 included certain unusual
    item charges of $59.3 million and $263.6 million, respectively, which
    follow:



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    None.


                                   PART III.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information required by Item 10 as to directors is incorporated by
reference from the sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Compliance
with the Reporting Requirements of Section 16(a)" in Cadence's definitive Proxy
Statement for its 2000 annual stockholders' meeting to be held on May 24, 2000.

    The executive officers of Cadence are listed at the end of Part I of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled "Director and Executive Compensation" in Cadence's definitive
Proxy Statement for its 2000 annual stockholders' meeting to be held on May 24,
2000.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" in Cadence's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2000 annual
stockholders' meeting to be held on May 24, 2000.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the
section entitled "Certain Transactions" in Cadence's definitive Proxy Statement
for its 2000 annual stockholders' meeting to be held on May 24, 2000.


                                    PART IV.

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

























(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:

    On December 10, 1998 and as amended on December 22, 1998, January 6, 1999,
May 20, 1999, and June 15, 1999, the Registrant filed a Current Report on
Form 8-K reporting Cadence's agreement to acquire Quickturn Design
Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and amendments to this agreement.

    On May 6, 1999, the Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting
Cadence's press release announcing its first quarter 1999 results and announcing
the appointment of H. Raymond Bingham to the position of President and Chief
Executive Officer.

    On May 26, 1999 and as amended on June 15, 1999, the Registrant filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K reporting the completion of Cadence's agreement to
acquire Quickturn Design Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

(c) EXHIBITS:

    Cadence hereby files as part of this Form 10-K the Exhibits listed in
Item 14. (a) 3 above.

(d) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE:

    See Item 14. (a) 2 of this Form 10-K.


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Cadence Design Systems, Inc.:

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cadence
Design Systems, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of January 1,
2000 and January 2, 1999, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended January 1, 2000. These financial statements and the schedule referred to
below are the responsibility of Cadence's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits. We did not audit the financial statements of Quickturn Design
Systems, Inc., for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, a company
acquired during 1999 in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests,
as discussed in Acquisitions in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Such statements are included in the consolidated financial
statements of Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and reflect total revenues of eight
percent and eleven percent of the related consolidated totals for the years
ended January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998. These statements were audited by
other auditors whose report has been furnished to us and our opinion, insofar as
it relates to amounts included for Quickturn Design Systems, Inc., is based
solely upon the report of the other auditors.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 1, 2000, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

    As explained in Cumulative Change in Accounting Method in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, effective November 1997, Cadence changed its
method of accounting for costs incurred for business process reengineering
projects.

    Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in Item 14. (a) 2. is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

San Jose, California
January 21, 2000
(Except for the matters discussed in
Subsequent Events, as to which the
date is February 25, 2000)


         REPORT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP, INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Quickturn Design Systems, Inc.:

    In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1998 and
the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss),
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period
ended December 31, 1998 of Quickturn Design Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(not presented separately herein) present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Quickturn Design
Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and for each of the two
years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above. We have not
audited the consolidated financial statements of Quickturn Design Systems, Inc.
for any period subsequent to December 31, 1998.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California
January 15, 1999


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                      JANUARY 1, 2000 AND JANUARY 2, 1999

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                FOR THE THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 1, 2000

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

                FOR THE THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 1, 2000

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                FOR THE THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 1, 2000

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                JANUARY 1, 2000

CADENCE

    Cadence Design Systems, Inc., or Cadence, provides comprehensive software
and other technology and offers design and methodology services for the product
development requirements of the world's leading electronics companies. Cadence
licenses its leading-edge electronic design automation, or EDA, software and
hardware technology and provides a range of services to companies throughout the
world to help its customers optimize their product development processes.
Cadence is a supplier of end-to-end products and services, which are used by
companies to design and develop complex chips and electronic systems including
semiconductors, computer systems and peripherals, telecommunications and
networking equipment, mobile and wireless devices, automotive electronics,
consumer products, and other advanced electronics.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Cadence and
its subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.
Investments in companies in which ownership interests range from 20% to 50% are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Cadence has one investment
with ownership interest less than 20% which is accounted for using the equity
method of accounting.

    Cadence's fiscal year end is the Saturday closest to December 31. Certain
prior year consolidated financial statement balances have been reclassified to
conform to the 1999 presentation.

    USE OF ESTIMATES

    The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

    Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, where the functional
currency is the local currency, are translated using exchange rates in effect at
the end of the period and revenue and costs are translated using average
exchange rates for the period. Gains and losses on the translation into U.S.
dollars of amounts denominated in foreign currencies are included in net income
for those operations whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar, and as a
separate component of stockholders' equity for those operations whose functional
currency is the local currency.

    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    Cadence enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and
purchases foreign currency put options with financial institutions primarily to
protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and
liabilities and probable but not firmly committed transactions, respectively.
Forward contracts are not accounted for as hedges and, therefore, the unrealized
gains and losses are recognized in other income, net, in advance of the actual
foreign currency cash flows with the fair value of these forward contracts being
recorded in accrued liabilities.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    Cadence purchases put options to hedge the currency exchange risks
associated with probable but not firmly committed transactions. Probable but not
firmly committed transactions consist of revenue from Cadence's products and
maintenance contracts in a currency other than the functional currency. These
transactions are made through Cadence's subsidiaries in Ireland and Japan. The
premium costs of the put options are recorded in prepaid expenses and other
current assets while the gains and losses are deferred and recognized in income
in the same period as the hedged transaction. Gains and losses on accounting
hedges realized before the settlement date of the related hedged transaction are
also generally deferred and recognized in income in the same period as the
hedged transaction. Cadence does not use forward contracts and put options for
trading purposes. Cadence's ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to
currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other
factors in effect as the forward contracts and put options mature.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION

    Product revenue consists principally of revenue earned under software
license agreements and is generally recognized upon shipment of the software if
collection of the resulting receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or
determinable, and vendor-specific objective evidence exists to allocate the
total fee to all delivered and undelivered elements of the arrangement. Revenue
associated with software products under subscription licenses is recognized
ratably over the license period because the agreements allow customers to
exchange licensed products for unspecified future technology. Installment
contract receivables result from customer contracts with Cadence's top-rated
credit customers. Cadence uses installment contracts as a standard business
practice and has a history of successfully collecting under the original payment
terms without making concessions on payments, products, or services. Emulation
hardware product revenue is recognized upon shipment.

    Services revenue consists primarily of revenue received for performing
methodology and design services. Fixed-price methodology and design service
contracts are accounted for using contract accounting, which is generally the
percentage-of-completion method versus the completed-contract method, and time
and materials contracts are accounted for on a monthly basis as work is
performed. In addition, for small fixed-price-projects, such as training classes
and small, standard methodology service engagements of approximately $10,000 in
size, revenue is recognized when the work is completed.

    Maintenance revenue consists of fees for providing technical support for
software products and software product updates and is recognized ratably over
the term of the support agreement.

    COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

    Comprehensive income (loss) includes foreign currency translation gains and
losses and other unrealized gains and losses that have been previously excluded
from net income (loss) and reflected instead in equity. Cadence has reported the
components of comprehensive income (loss) on its consolidated statements of
stockholders' equity.

    NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE

    Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income
(loss) by the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding during the
year, and for diluted net income per share, net income is divided by the
weighted average shares of common stock outstanding and potential common shares
outstanding during the year. Potential common shares outstanding included in the
dilution calculation consist of dilutive shares issuable upon the exercise of
outstanding common stock options, warrants, contingent issuances of common
stock, and put warrants computed using the treasury stock method. For


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

the year in which Cadence had a loss, potential common shares outstanding are
excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share as their effects are
anti-dilutive.

    CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

    Cadence considers all highly liquid debt instruments, including commercial
paper, Euro time deposits, repurchase agreements, and certificates of deposit
with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Investments with original maturities greater than three months and less than one
year are classified as short-term investments. Investments with original
maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term investments.

    Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments in
debt and marketable equity securities at the time of purchase. Debt securities
classified as held-to-maturity are stated at amortized cost based on Cadence's
positive intent to hold such securities until maturity. The cost of securities
sold is determined using the specific identification method when computing
realized gains and losses. Securities classified as available-for-sale are
stated at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported as a
component of stockholders' equity until realized. The amortized cost of debt
securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts
to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is included in other income, net.

    INVENTORIES

    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or
market. Cadence's inventories include high technology parts and components for
complex computer systems that emulate the performance and operation of computer
chips and electronic systems. These parts and components may be specialized in
nature or subject to rapid technological obsolescence. While Cadence has
programs to minimize the required inventories on hand and considers
technological obsolescence when estimating required reserves to reduce recorded
amounts to market values, it is reasonably possible that such estimates could
change in the near term.

    PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT

    Property, plant, and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and
amortization are provided over the estimated useful lives, using the
straight-line method, as follows:



    SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES

    Cadence capitalizes software development costs in compliance with SFAS
No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or
Otherwise Marketed." Capitalization of software development costs begins upon
the establishment of technological feasibility of the product. Technological
feasibility is established at the completion of detail program design and
testing. The establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing
assessment of the recoverability of these costs requires considerable judgment
by management with respect to certain external factors including, but not
limited to,


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

anticipated future gross product revenue, estimated economic life, and changes
in software and hardware technology. Amortization of capitalized software
development costs begins when the products are available for general release to
customers and is computed on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated
economic life of the product, which is generally three years.

    Acquired intangibles represent purchase price in excess of acquired tangible
assets and in-process technology in connection with business combinations
accounted for as purchases and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
remaining estimated economic life of the underlying products and technologies
(original lives assigned are one to seven years).

    It is reasonably possible that the estimates of anticipated future gross
revenue, the remaining estimated economic life of the products and technologies,
or both, could differ from those used to assess the recoverability of these
costs and result in a write-down of the carrying amount or a shortened life of
both the software development costs and acquired intangibles in the near term.

    LONG-LIVED ASSETS

    Cadence reviews long-lived assets, certain identifiable intangibles, and
goodwill related to these assets for impairment in accordance with SFAS
No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-lived Assets and For Long-lived
Assets to be Disposed Of."

    For assets to be held and used, including acquired intangibles, Cadence
initiates its review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability
of an asset is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the future
undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. Any impairment
to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the
asset exceeds its fair market value.

    Assets to be disposed of and for which management has committed to a plan to
dispose of the assets, whether through sale or abandonment, are reported at the
lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.

    CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

    Financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, that may
potentially subject Cadence to concentrations of credit risk, consist
principally of cash investments, short-term investments, long-term investments,
accounts receivable, forward contracts and put options, and call options
purchased in conjunction with Cadence's stock repurchase program. Cadence's
investment policy primarily limits investments to short-term, low-risk
instruments. Concentration of credit risk related to accounts receivable is
limited, due to the varied customers comprising Cadence's customer base and
their dispersion across geographies. Credit exposure related to the forward
contracts and the call options is limited to the realized and unrealized gains
on these contracts. All financial instruments are executed with financial
institutions with strong credit ratings, which minimizes risk of loss due to
nonpayment. Cadence has not experienced any losses due to credit impairment
related to its financial instruments.

    ACCRUED WARRANTY

    Cadence provides an accrual for future warranty costs based on the
historical relationship of revenue to warranty costs incurred.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. It
requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in
earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and that a company
must formally document, designate, and assess the effectiveness of transactions
that receive hedge accounting. In June 1999, SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral of the Effective Date of
FASB Statement No. 133," was issued. The statement defers the effective date of
SFAS No. 133 until the first quarter of fiscal 2001. Cadence has not yet
determined the effect SFAS No. 133 will have on its financial position, results
of operations, or cash flows.

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 101, "Revenue Recognition." SAB 101 provides
guidance on the recognition, presentation, and disclosure of revenue in
financial statements and is effective for the first quarter of Fiscal 2000.
Cadence has not yet determined the effect SAB 101 will have on its financial
position or results of operations.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

    A summary of balance sheet components follows:




                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    INVESTMENTS

    A summary of Cadence's held-to-maturity and available-for-sale investment
portfolios follows:



    The contractual maturities of these investments, excluding marketable equity
securities, as of January 1, 2000, were as follows (in thousands):



    Excluding marketable equity securities, the carrying value of cash and cash
equivalents, short-term investments, and long-term investments approximate fair
value (based on quoted market prices) of such investments. Accordingly, the
gross realized and unrealized gains and losses were immaterial for each of the
two years. As of January 1, 2000, the unrealized gain on marketable equity
securities was $36.2 million.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    FINANCING

    Cadence has entered into agreements whereby it may transfer qualifying
accounts receivables, for which Cadence has recognized the related revenue, to
certain financing institutions on a non-recourse basis. These transfers are
recorded as sales and accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 125, "Accounting
for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities." During the year ended January 1, 2000, Cadence transferred
accounts receivable totaling $167.7 million, which approximated fair value, to
financing institutions on a non-recourse basis. Transfers of accounts receivable
for cash are reported in Cadence's consolidated statements of cash flows as a
financing activity.

    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The following table shows the notional principal and fair value of Cadence's
derivative financial instruments as of January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999:



    The estimates of fair value are based on applicable and commonly used
pricing models using prevailing financial market information as of January 1,
2000, and January 2, 1999. As of January 1, 2000, and January 2, 1999, the
credit risk associated with the forward contracts and put options was
negligible. Although the table above reflects the notional principal and fair
value amounts of Cadence's foreign exchange instruments, it does not reflect the
gains or losses associated with the underlying exposures and underlying
transactions. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement of these financial
instruments, together with the gains and losses on the underlying exposures,
will depend on actual market conditions during the remaining life of the
instruments.

ACQUISITIONS

    DIABLO RESEARCH COMPANY LLC

    In December 1999, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Diablo
Research Company LLC and assumed all outstanding stock options. Diablo was a
high-technology engineering services firm with expertise in wireless
communication, global positioning satellite solutions, and data transfer and
home automation markets. The total purchase price was $39.9 million in cash, and
the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. In connection with the
acquisition, Cadence acquired net intangibles of $40.9 million. The results of
operations of Diablo and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are included in Cadence's consolidated financial statements
from the date of acquisition. Intangibles arising from the Diablo acquisition
are being amortized on a straight-line basis over five years.

    ORCAD, INC.

    In August 1999, Cadence acquired OrCAD, Inc., a supplier of computer-aided
engineering and computer-aided design software and services for the printed
circuit board industry, for cash. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock
of OrCAD and assumed all outstanding stock options. The purchase price was
$131.4 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. In
connection with the acquisition, Cadence acquired net intangibles of
$94 million. The results of operations of OrCAD and the


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are included
in Cadence's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
Intangibles arising from the OrCAD acquisition are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over five years.

    Management estimated that $11.8 million of the purchase price for OrCAD
represented acquired in-process technology that had not yet reached
technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, this
amount was immediately charged to expense in the consolidated statements of
operations upon consummation of the acquisition. The value assigned to acquired
in-process technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas
for which technological feasibility had not been established. The value was
determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology
into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from
such projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value.
The discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology. If
these projects are not successfully developed, future revenue and profitability
of Cadence may be adversely affected. Additionally, the value of other
intangible assets acquired may become impaired.

    Comparative pro forma financial information has not been presented because
the results of operations of Diablo and OrCAD were not material to Cadence's
consolidated financial statements, either individually or in the aggregate.

    QUICKTURN DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

    In May 1999, Cadence completed its merger with Quickturn Design
Systems, Inc. Quickturn designed, manufactured, sold, and supported hardware and
software products that verified the design of computer chips and electronic
systems. Cadence acquired all of the outstanding shares of Quickturn common
stock in a tax-free, stock-for-stock transaction for approximately 24.6 million
shares of Cadence common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling
of interests. In addition, Cadence assumed all outstanding stock options and
warrants of Quickturn. All prior period consolidated financial statements were
restated as if the merger took place at the beginning of such periods, in
accordance with required pooling of interests accounting and disclosures.
Revenue and net income (loss) of the separate companies for the period and
fiscal years preceding the acquisition were as follows:



    DESIGN ACCELERATION, INC.

    In January 1999, Cadence acquired Design Acceleration, Inc., or DAI. DAI was
a supplier of design verification technology used in system-on-a-chip design.
Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

DAI for approximately 0.6 million shares of Cadence common stock and
$2.9 million of cash. The total purchase price was $25.7 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. In connection with the acquisition,
Cadence acquired net intangibles of $24.1 million. The results of operations of
DAI and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
are included in Cadence's consolidated financial statements from the date of
acquisition. Intangibles arising from the acquisition are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over five years.

    Management estimated that $8.9 million of the purchase price for DAI
represented acquired in-process technology that had not yet reached
technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, this
amount was immediately charged to expense in the consolidated statements of
operations upon consummation of the acquisition. The value assigned to acquired
in-process technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas
for which technological feasibility had not been established. The value was
determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology
into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from
such projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value.
The discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the purchased in-process technology.
If these projects are not successfully developed, future revenue, and
profitability of Cadence may be adversely affected. Additionally, the value of
other intangible assets acquired may become impaired. Comparative pro forma
financial information has not been presented because the results of operations
of DAI were not material to Cadence's consolidated financial statements.

    AMBIT DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

    In September 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Ambit
Design Systems, Inc. for cash. The total purchase price was $255 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. The results of operations of Ambit
and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are
included in Cadence's consolidated financial statements from the date of
acquisition. Intangibles arising from the acquisition are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over seven years.

    Management estimated that $106.5 million of the purchase price represented
acquired in-process technology that had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, this amount was
immediately charged to expense in the consolidated statement of operations upon
consummation of the acquisition. The value assigned to acquired in-process
technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas for which
technological feasibility had not been established. The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology. If
these projects are not successfully developed, future revenue and profitability
of Cadence may be adversely affected. Additionally, the value of other
intangible assets acquired may become impaired.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    In connection with the acquisition, net assets acquired were as follows:



    The following table represents unaudited consolidated pro forma financial
information as if Cadence and Ambit had been combined as of the beginning of the
periods presented. The pro forma data are presented for illustrative purposes
only and are not necessarily indicative of the combined financial position or
results of operations of future periods or the results that actually would have
resulted had Cadence and Ambit been a combined company during the specified
periods. The pro forma results include the effects of the amortization of
acquired intangible assets and adjustments to the income tax provision. The pro
forma combined results exclude acquisition-related charges for acquired
in-process technology related to Ambit.



    BELL LABS' INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN AUTOMATION GROUP

    In September 1998, Cadence acquired Bell Labs' Integrated Circuit Design
Automation Group of Lucent Technologies Inc., BLDA, for cash. The total purchase
price was $58.0 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. The
results of operations of BLDA and the estimated fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed are included in Cadence's consolidated
financial statements from the date of acquisition. Intangibles arising from the
acquisition are being amortized on a straight-line basis over five years.

    Management estimated that $30.3 million of the purchase price represented
acquired in-process technology that had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, this amount was
immediately charged to expense in the consolidated statements of operations upon
consummation of the acquisition. The value assigned to acquired in-process
technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas for which
technological feasibility had not been established. The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process
technology. If these projects are not successfully developed, future revenue,
and profitability of Cadence may be adversely affected. Additionally, the value
of other intangible assets acquired may become impaired.

    EXCELLENT DESIGN, INC.

    In March 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Excellent
Design, Inc., EXD, for cash. The total purchase price was $40.9 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. The results of operations of EXD
and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are
included in Cadence's consolidated financial statements from the date of
acquisition. Intangibles arising from the acquisition are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over five years.

    Management estimated that $28.4 million of the purchase price represented
acquired in-process technology that had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, this amount was
immediately charged to expense in the consolidated statements of operations upon
consummation of the acquisition. The value assigned to acquired in-process
technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas for which
technological feasibility had not been established. The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology. If
these projects are not successfully developed, future revenue, and profitability
of Cadence may be adversely affected. Additionally, the value of other
intangible assets acquired may become impaired. In the fourth quarter of 1999,
Cadence recorded asset impairment charges of $13.3 million. See further
discussion at "Asset Impairment."

    SYMBIONICS GROUP LIMITED

    In February 1998, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of
Symbionics Group Limited for approximately 1 million shares of Cadence common
stock and $21.3 million of cash. The total purchase price was $46.1 million and
the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. The results of operations of
Symbionics and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed are included in Cadence's consolidated financial statements from the
date of acquisition. Intangibles arising from the acquisition are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over five years.

    Management estimated that $28.5 million of the purchase price represented
acquired in-process technology that had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, this amount was
immediately charged to expense in the consolidated statements of operations upon
consummation of the acquisition. The value assigned to acquired in-process
technology was determined by identifying research projects in areas for which
technological feasibility had not been established. The value was determined by
estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such
projects and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The
discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology. If
these projects are not successfully developed, future revenue, and profitability
of Cadence may be adversely affected. Additionally, the value of other
intangible assets acquired may become impaired.

    Comparative pro forma financial information has not been presented as the
results of operations of BLDA, EXD, and Symbionics were not material to
Cadence's consolidated financial statements, either individually or in the
aggregate.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    ADVANCED MICROELECTRONICS

    In October 1997, Cadence acquired certain assets and related business from
the Advanced Microelectronics division of the Institute for Technology
Development, referred to as Advanced Microelectronics, a non-profit corporation
organized to conduct and transfer scientific research into usable high
technology for commercial application. This division provided contract
engineering services on a time-and-materials basis for the design and
development of integrated circuits. The total purchase price was $2.4 million
and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, the results of
operations of Advanced Microelectronics and the estimated fair value of the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed are included in Cadence's consolidated
financial statements from the date of acquisition. The excess of purchase price
over net assets acquired was $2.1 million, of which $1.7 million related to the
write-off of in-process technology that had not reached technological
feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable alternative future
use. Comparative pro forma financial information has not been presented as the
results of operations of Advanced Microelectronics were not material to
Cadence's consolidated financial statements.

    ARKOS DESIGN, INC.

    In June 1997, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement among Quickturn,
Synopsys, Inc., and Arkos Design, Inc., Quickturn acquired from Synopsys certain
assets relating to Synopsys' emulation business, including all the outstanding
common stock of Arkos, for approximately 0.5 million shares of Quickturn common
stock and $5 million of cash. The total purchase price was $16.7 million and the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, the results of
operations of Arkos and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are included in the consolidated financial statements from
the date of acquisition. Intangibles arising from the acquisition are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over five years. The excess of purchase price
over net assets acquired was $7.9 million, of which $2.8 million related to the
write-off of in-process technology that had not reached technological
feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable alternative future
use. Comparative pro forma financial information has not been presented as the
results of operations of Arkos were not material to Quickturn's consolidated
financial statements.

    COOPER & CHYAN TECHNOLOGY, INC.

    In May 1997, Cadence merged with Cooper & Chyan Technology, Inc., or CCT,
whose software products were used to design sophisticated integrated circuits
and high-speed printed circuit boards. In connection therewith, Cadence issued
approximately 22.8 million shares of common stock. The merger was accounted for
using the pooling of interests method of accounting. Cadence had restated all
prior period consolidated financial statements as if the merger took place at
the beginning of such periods, in accordance with required pooling of interests
accounting and disclosures. Reconciliation of the current


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

consolidated financial statements with previously reported separate company
information is presented below:



    SYNTHESIA AB

    In February 1997, Cadence acquired all of the outstanding stock of Synthesia
AB for 115,166 shares of Cadence common stock and cash. The total purchase price
was $4.7 million and the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. The
results of operations of Synthesia and the estimated fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed were included in Cadence's consolidated
financial statements from the date of acquisition. In connection with the
acquisition, net intangibles of $5.6 million were acquired, of which
$4.9 million related to the write-off of in-process technology that had not
reached technological feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable
alternative future use. Comparative pro forma financial information has not been
presented as the results of operations of Synthesia were not material to
Cadence's consolidated financial statements.

    SPEEDSIM, INC.

    In February 1997, Quickturn merged with SpeedSim, Inc., a provider of
simulation software for the verification of digital logic designs. Quickturn
acquired all of the outstanding shares of SpeedSim common stock in a tax-free,
stock-for-stock transaction for approximately 2.8 million shares of Quickturn
common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests. In
addition, Quickturn assumed all outstanding stock options of SpeedSim. All prior
period consolidated financial statements were restated as if the merger took
place at the beginning of such periods, in accordance with required pooling of
interests accounting and disclosures.

CREDIT FACILITY AND LONG-TERM DEBT

    In October 1998, Cadence entered into a senior unsecured credit facility,
referred to as the 1998 Facility with a syndicate of banks that allows Cadence
to borrow up to $355 million. As amended in September and November of 1999, the
1998 Facility is divided between a $177.5 million two year revolving credit
facility, or the Two Year Facility, and a $177.5 million 364-day revolving
credit facility convertible into a one year term loan, or the 364-Day Facility.
The Two Year Facility expires on September 29, 2001. The 364-Day Facility will
either expire on September 27, 2000, be converted to a one year term loan with a
maturity date of September 27, 2001, or, at the request of Cadence and with the
agreement of the bank group, be renewed for an additional one year. Cadence has
the option to pay interest based on LIBOR plus a spread of between 1.25% and
1.50%, based on a pricing grid tied to a financial covenant, or the


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

higher of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% or the prime rate. As a result,
Cadence's interest rate expenses associated with this borrowing will vary with
market rates. In addition, commitment fees are payable on the unutilized
portions of the Two Year Facility at rates between 0.23% and 0.30% based on a
pricing grid tied to a financial covenant and on the unutilized portion of the
364-Day Facility at a fixed rate of 0.18%. The 1998 Facility contains certain
financial and other covenants. As of January 1, 2000, Cadence had $20 million
outstanding under the Two Year Facility at a weighted average interest rate of
8.11%.

    A summary of long-term debt and capital leases follows:



COMMITMENTS

    Equipment and facilities are leased under various capital and operating
leases expiring at various dates through the year 2017. Certain of these leases
contain renewal options. Rental expense was $25 million, $25.1 million, and
$18.6 million for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

    At January 1, 2000, future minimum lease payments under capital and
operating leases and the present value of the capital lease payments were as
follows:



    The cost of equipment under capital leases included in the consolidated
balance sheets as property, plant, and equipment at January 1, 2000 and
January 2, 1999 was approximately $14 million and $6 million, respectively.
Accumulated amortization of the leased equipment at January 1, 2000 and
January 2, 1999 was approximately $5.5 million and $3.5 million, respectively.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

CONTINGENCIES

    From time to time Cadence is involved in various disputes and litigation
matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes
and lawsuits related to intellectual property, licensing, contract law,
distribution arrangements, and employee relations matters.

    Cadence filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California on December 6, 1995 against Avant! Corporation and
certain of its employees for misappropriation of trade secrets, copyright
infringement, conspiracy, and other illegal acts.

    On January 16, 1996, Avant! filed various counterclaims against Cadence and
Joseph B. Costello, Cadence's former President and Chief Executive Officer, and
with leave of the court, on January 29, 1998, filed a second amended
counterclaim. The second amended counterclaim alleges, INTER ALIA, that Cadence
and Mr. Costello had cooperated with the Santa Clara County, California,
District Attorney and initiated and pursued its complaint against Avant! for
anticompetitive reasons, engaged in wrongful activity in an attempt to
manipulate Avant!'s stock price, and utilized certain pricing policies and other
acts to unfairly compete against Avant! in the marketplace. The second amended
counterclaim also alleges that certain Cadence insiders engaged in illegal
insider trading with respect to Avant!'s stock. Cadence and Mr. Costello believe
that they have meritorious defenses to Avant!'s claims, and each intends to
defend such action vigorously. By an order dated July 13, 1996, the court
bifurcated Avant!'s counterclaim from Cadence's complaint and stayed the
counterclaim pending resolution of Cadence's complaint. The counterclaim remains
stayed.

    In an order issued on December 19, 1997, as modified on January 26, 1998,
the District Court entered a preliminary injunction barring Avant! from any
further infringement of Cadence's copyrights in Design Framework II software, or
selling, licensing or copying such product derived from Design Framework II,
including, but not limited to, Avant!'s ArcCell products. On December 7, 1998,
the District Court issued a further preliminary injunction, which enjoined
Avant! from selling its Aquarius product line. Cadence posted a $10 million bond
in connection with the issuance of the preliminary injunction. On July 30, 1999,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the preliminary
injunction.

    By an order dated July 22, 1997, the District Court stayed most activity in
the case pending in that court and ordered Avant! to post a $5 million bond in
light of related criminal proceedings pending against Avant! and several of its
executives.

    On September 7, 1999, the District Court ruled on the parties' Motions for
Summary Adjudication, and granted in part, and denied in part, each party's
motion regarding the scope of a June 6, 1994 Release Agreement between the
parties. The Court held that Cadence's copyright infringement claim against
Avant! is not barred by the release and that Cadence may proceed on that claim.
The Court also held that Cadence's trade secret claim based on Avant!'s use of
Cadence's Design Framework II source code is barred by the release. The Ninth
Circuit has agreed to hear both parties' appeal from the District Court's order.
The trial date has been vacated pending a decision on the appeal. Cadence
intends to pursue its claims against Avant! vigorously.

    On April 30, 1999, Cadence and several of its officers and directors were
named as defendants in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, entitled Spett v. Cadence Design Systems, et
al., civil action no. C 99-2082. The action was brought on behalf of a class of
stockholders who purchased Cadence common stock between November 4, 1998 and
April 20, 1999, and alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The lawsuit arises out of Cadence's
announcement of its first quarter 1999 financial results. Management intends to
vigorously defend these claims.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    In February 1998, Aptix Corporation and Meta Systems, Inc. filed a lawsuit
against Quickturn Design Systems, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California. In this lawsuit, entitled Aptix Corporation and
Meta Systems, Inc. v. Quickturn Design Systems, Aptix and Meta Systems allege
infringement by Quickturn of a U.S. patent owned by Aptix and licensed to Meta.
Quickturn named Mentor Graphics Corporation as a party to this suit and filed a
counterclaim requesting the District Court to declare the Aptix patent to be
unenforceable based on inequitable conduct during the prosecution of the patent.
The case is set for trial in late 2000.

    On July 21, 1999, Mentor filed suit against Quickturn in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware, alleging patent infringement involving
Quickturn's Mercury hardware emulation systems. The complaint seeks a permanent
injunction and unspecified damages. Cadence intends to vigorously defend these
claims. On July 22, 1999, Quickturn and Cadence filed a complaint against Mentor
and Meta asking for declaratory relief in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California. The action brought by Mentor in Delaware has
been transferred to California for consolidation with Quickturn's declaratory
judgment action.

    Management believes that the ultimate resolution of the disputes and
litigation matters discussed above will not have a material adverse effect on
Cadence's business, operating results, or financial condition.

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE

    The following is a reconciliation of the weighted average common shares used
to calculate basic net income (loss) per share to the weighted average common
and potential common shares used to calculate diluted net income (loss) per
share for the years 1999, 1998, and 1997:



    Options to purchase 56,181,714 shares of common stock at the weighted
average price of $14.29 per share were outstanding at January 1, 2000, but were
not included in the computation of diluted net loss per share because their
effect would be antidilutive. These options, expire at various dates through
2009. Warrants to purchase 394,237 shares of common stock at the weighted
average prices of $3.22 and $23.60 were outstanding at January 1, 2000, but were
not included in the computation of diluted loss per share because their effect
would be antidilutive. The warrants outstanding expire in February 2000 and
June 2003. Put warrants to purchase 1,615,175 shares of common stock at the
weighted average price of $13.08 per share were outstanding at January 1, 2000,
but were not included in the computation of diluted loss per share because their
effect would be antidilutive. The put warrants outstanding expired in
February 2000.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

    STOCK OPTION PLANS

    Cadence's 1997 Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan, referred to as the 1997
Plan, provides for the issuance of non-qualified options to its employees to
purchase up to 30,000,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price not less
than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. Options granted
under the 1997 Plan become exercisable over periods up to five years, with,
generally, one-fifth of the shares vesting one year from the vesting
commencement date with respect to initial grants, and the remaining shares
vesting in 48 equal monthly installments. Options under the 1997 Plan generally
expire ten years from the date of grant.

    Cadence's Employee Stock Option Plan, referred to as the 1987 Plan, provides
for the issuance of either incentive or non-qualified options to its employees
to purchase up to 71,370,100 shares of common stock at an exercise price not
less than fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. Options granted
under the 1987 Plan become exercisable over periods of up to five years and
generally expire five to ten years from the date of grant.

    Cadence's Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan, referred to as the 1993
Non-Statutory Plan, provides for the issuance of non-qualified options to its
employees to purchase up to 24,750,000 shares of common stock at an exercise
price not less than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant.
Options granted under the 1993 Non-Statutory Plan become exercisable over a four
year period, with one-fourth of the shares vesting one year from the vesting
commencement date, and the remaining shares vesting in 36 equal monthly
installments. Options under the 1993 Non-Statutory Plan generally expire ten
years from the date of grant.

    Under the Directors' Stock Option Plans, referred to as the Directors'
Plans, Cadence may grant non-qualified options to its non-employee directors for
up to 2,032,502 shares of common stock at an exercise price not less than the
fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. Options granted under the
Directors' Plans have terms of up to ten years. Certain of the option grants
vest one year from the date of grant, and other option grants vest one-third on
the date which is one year from the date of grant and two-thirds ratably over
the subsequent two years.

    Cadence has assumed certain options granted to former employees of acquired
companies, referred to as Acquired Options. The Acquired Options were assumed by
Cadence outside of its stock option plans, and all are administered as if issued
under their original plans. All of the Acquired Options have been adjusted to
effectuate the price conversion under the terms of the Agreements and Plans of
Reorganization between Cadence and the companies acquired. The Acquired Options
generally become exercisable over a four or five year period and generally
expire either five or ten years from the date of grant. No additional options
will be granted under any of the acquired companies' plans.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    A summary of the status of all of Cadence's stock option plans as of and
during the years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998
follows:



    A summary of the status of all of Cadence's stock option plans at
January 1, 2000 follows:



    STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN

    Cadence has authorized two seasoned systematic stock repurchase programs
under which it repurchases common stock to satisfy estimated requirements for
shares to be issued under its Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, and the
1997 Plan. Such repurchases are intended to cover Cadence's expected reissuances
under the ESPP and the 1997 Plan for the next 12 months and 24 months,
respectively.

    As part of its authorized repurchase program, Cadence has sold put warrants
through private placements. At January 1, 2000, there were 1.6 million put
warrants outstanding that entitle the holder to sell one share of common stock
to Cadence on a specified date and at a specified price of $13.08 per share.
Additionally, during this same period, Cadence purchased call options that
entitle Cadence to buy one


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

share of common stock at a specified price to satisfy anticipated stock
repurchase requirements under Cadence's systematic repurchase programs. At
January 1, 2000, Cadence had 1.3 million call options outstanding at a price of
$13.33 per share. The put warrants and call options outstanding at January 1,
2000 are exercisable in February 2000 and Cadence has the contractual ability to
settle the options prior to their maturity. At January 1, 2000, the fair value
of the call options was approximately $13.6 million and the fair value of the
put warrants was approximately $0.1 million. The fair value of put warrants and
call options was estimated by Cadence's investment bankers.

    If exercised, Cadence has the right to settle the put warrants with common
stock equal to the difference between the exercise price and the fair value at
the date of exercise. Settlement of the put warrants with common stock could
cause Cadence to issue a substantial number of shares, depending on the exercise
price of the put warrants and the per share fair value of Cadence common stock
at the time of exercise. In addition, settlement of put warrants in common stock
could lead to the disposition by put warrant holders of shares of Cadence common
stock that such holders may have accumulated in anticipation of the exercise of
the put warrants or call options, which may adversely affect the price of
Cadence common stock. At January 1, 2000, Cadence had the ability to settle
these put warrants with common stock and, therefore, no amount was classified
out of stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheets. The effect of
the exercise of these put warrants and call options is reported in the line
titled "Purchase of treasury stock" within the consolidated statements of
stockholders' equity.

    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

    Under the ESPP, Cadence is authorized to issue up to 23,500,000 shares of
common stock to its employees. Under the terms of the ESPP, employees can choose
to have up to 12% of their annual base earnings plus bonuses withheld to
purchase Cadence common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 85% of the
lesser of the fair market value as of the beginning or the end of the offering
periods. Under the ESPP, Cadence issued 2,110,222, 1,252,855 and 1,392,136
shares to employees in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. The weighted average
purchase price and the weighted average fair value of shares issued in 1999 was
$12.56 and $16.59, respectively.

    In November 1998, Cadence amended its ESPP providing for concurrent
24 month offering periods with a new 24 month offering period starting every six
months. Each offering period will be divided into four consecutive six month
purchase periods, commencing in February 1999.

    PRO FORMA INFORMATION

    This information is required to illustrate the financial results of
operations as if Cadence had accounted for its grants of employee stock options
under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123. The fair value of Cadence's options
granted and shares purchased under the ESPP program for years ended January 1,
2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998 reported below was estimated at the
date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted average assumptions assuming a dividend yield of zero for all periods:




                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



    The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed by the financial
markets for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no
vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation
models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the
expected stock price volatility. Cadence's options have characteristics
significantly different from those of exchange traded options and changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. In
management's opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of the fair value of its stock options granted to its employees.

    For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized over the options' vesting period. Cadence applies
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in
accounting for its plans. Had Cadence's fixed stock option and employee stock
purchase plans been accounted for under SFAS No. 123, net income (loss) and net
income (loss) per share would have been adjusted to the following pro forma
amounts:



    The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 on pro forma disclosures of net income
(loss) and net income (loss) per share for 1999, 1998, and 1997 are not likely
to be representative of the pro forma effects on net income (loss) and net
income (loss) per share in future years.

    WARRANTS

    At January 1, 2000, Cadence had warrants outstanding to purchase 254,237 and
140,000 shares of Cadence common stock at $23.60 and $3.22 per share,
respectively. The warrants for 254,237 shares expired in February 2000. The
warrant for 140,000 shares expires in June 2003 and can be exercised at any time
in increments of not less than 50,000 shares.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    RESERVED FOR FUTURE ISSUANCE

    At January 1, 2000, Cadence had reserved the following shares of authorized
but unissued common stock for future issuance:



    STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

    In February 1996, Cadence adopted a new stockholder rights plan to protect
its stockholders' rights in the event of a proposed or actual acquisition of 15%
or more of the outstanding shares of Cadence common stock. As part of this plan,
each share of Cadence common stock carries a right to purchase one
one-thousandth (1/1000) of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock, referred to as a Right, par value $0.01 per share, of Cadence at a price
of $240 per one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment. The Rights are
subject to redemption at the option of the Board of Directors at a price of
$0.01 per Right until the occurrence of certain events. The Rights expire on
February 20, 2006. As of February 1, 2000, Cadence has changed its Rights agent.

CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING METHOD

    In November 1997, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force issued Ruling 97-13
"Accounting for Costs Incurred in Connection with a Consulting Contract or an
Internal Project That Combines Business Process Reengineering and Information
Technology Transformation," which requires companies to expense costs incurred
for business process reengineering projects. As a result, Cadence recorded a
$12.3 million charge in 1997, net of income taxes of $5.3 million, as a
cumulative effect of change in accounting method for reengineering project costs
that had been previously capitalized by Cadence associated with its
implementation of enterprise-wide information systems. This change in accounting
method reduced basic net income per share and diluted net income per share for
1997 by $0.06 and $0.05, respectively.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

INCOME TAXES

    The provision for income taxes consisted of the following components:



    Income (loss) before income taxes included income of approximately
$11.5 million for 1999, $1.6 million for 1998, and $144.8 million for 1997, from
Cadence's foreign subsidiaries. The provision for income taxes is net of the
benefit of operating loss carryforwards totaling $28.3 million for 1999,
$3.9 million for 1998, and $3.6 million for 1997.

    The provision for income taxes differs from the amount estimated by applying
the statutory federal income tax rate to income (loss) before income taxes as
follows:



    The provision for income taxes in 1997 includes a tax benefit of
$5.3 million on cumulative effect of change in accounting method.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted of the
following:



    Cadence provides for U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign
subsidiaries unless they are considered permanently invested outside of the U.S.
At January 1, 2000, the cumulative amount of earnings upon which U.S. income
taxes have not been provided are approximately $127.3 million. At January 1,
2000, the unrecognized deferred tax liability for these earnings was
approximately $45.1 million.

    The net valuation allowance increased by $25.6 million in 1999. The increase
in valuation allowance--provision for income taxes of $11.4 million is due to
the uncertainty of certain foreign subsidiaries generating sufficient taxable
income to realize certain foreign deferred tax assets. The increase in valuation
allowance-equity and intangibles of $14.2 million is due to the uncertainty of
domestic entities generating sufficient taxable income, including the deduction
for stock options to realize certain domestic deferred tax assets. This portion
of the valuation allowance, identified in the above table as "valuation
allowance--equity and intangibles", if realizable, may reduce other intangibles
and may not be available to offset future provision for income taxes.

    The remaining net operating loss carryforwards will expire at various dates
from 2000 through 2019 and federal tax credit carryforwards will expire at
various dates from 2000 through 2014.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    A dispute between Cadence and the Internal Revenue Service regarding
$15.6 million in tax credits for the tax years 1989 through 1991 was settled
during 1999 with no material adjustments to the returns as originally filed.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

    Cadence maintains 401(k) savings plans to provide retirement benefits
through tax deferred salary deductions for all its domestic employees. Cadence
may make discretionary contributions, as determined by the Board of Directors,
which cannot exceed a percentage of the annual aggregate salaries of those
employees eligible to participate. Cadence made total contributions to the plans
of $3.9 million, $4.2 million, and $3.8 million for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively.

    In January 2000, Cadence amended its 401(k) plan to provide that Cadence
will match contributions with 50% of every dollar contributed, up to a
contribution level of 6% of the salaries of those employees who participate in
the 401(k) plan.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

    The supplemental cash flow information for 1999, 1998, and 1997 follows:



INTEGRATED MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS, INC.

    In February 1997, Cadence and its subsidiary, Integrated Measurement
Systems, Inc., or IMS, sold to the public 1.7 million shares of IMS common
stock, of which approximately 1 million shares were sold by Cadence, netting
Cadence approximately $18.6 million in cash. As a result of the offering and
sale of shares by Cadence, Cadence's ownership interest in IMS decreased to
approximately 37% from approximately 55%. Accordingly, Cadence changed the
accounting for its investment in IMS from consolidation to the equity method of
accounting in fiscal 1997. The likelihood of such transactions in the future is
dependent upon the state of the financial markets as well as liquidity and other
considerations of each of Cadence and IMS. IMS manufactures and markets
verification systems used in testing prototype ASICs.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

UNUSUAL ITEMS AND RESTRUCTURING

    Described below are unusual items and restructuring charges in 1999, 1998,
and 1997:



IN-PROCESS TECHNOLOGY

    Described below are the write-offs of acquired in-process technology charges
in 1999, 1998, and 1997:



    These acquired in-process technology charges represent in-process technology
that had not reached technological feasibility and had no probable alternative
future use. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions
and Results of Operations--In-Process Technology."

    ASSET IMPAIRMENT

    In 1999, Cadence incurred charges totaling $19.9 million in asset impairment
charges. Of this amount, $13.3 million represented asset impairment of acquired
intangibles from the EXD acquisition. This asset impairment charge resulted from
reduced Japanese market opportunities and the loss of key EXD employees
resulting in diminished cash flow projections. Cadence entered into certain
support agreements with external parties to provide support for EXD software
tools previously sold to Cadence customers. The fair value of the EXD acquired
intangibles was based on an evaluation of the present value of the estimated
expected future cash flows, discounted at 16%. The remaining $6.6 million in
asset impairment charges were incurred in connection with the cancellation of an
information technology services contract with a third-party, the abandonment of
capitalized software development costs associated with certain Cadence products
that will no longer be sold, and the abandonment of certain third-party software
licenses that will no longer be used by Cadence's design services business.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    In 1997, Cadence wrote-off capitalized software development costs of
$3.1 million for products developed by Cadence that were replaced by CCT
products or by license of replacement technology.

    The impairment losses recorded were the amounts by which the carrying
amounts of the intangible assets exceeded their fair market values.

    RESTRUCTURING

    In 1999, Cadence recorded $13.3 million of restructuring charges which
consisted of $11.3 million to terminate approximately 100 employees and
$2 million to downsize and close excess facilities. Cadence's restructuring
plans were primarily aimed at reducing costs after Cadence merged with
Quickturn, further restructuring of Cadence's services business in Japan, and
severance resulting from the resignation of Cadence's former Chief Executive
Officer. Severance costs include severance benefits, notice pay, and
outplacement services. All terminations and termination benefits were
communicated to the affected employees prior to year-end and all remaining
severance benefits are expected to paid in 2000.

    Facilities consolidation charges of $2 million were incurred in connection
with the closure of 15 Quickturn facilities, including $1 million to close
duplicate and excess facilities and $1 million of abandonment costs for the
related leasehold improvements. Closure and exit costs include payments required
under lease contracts, less any applicable sublease income after the properties
were abandoned, lease buyout costs, restoration costs associated with certain
lease arrangements, and costs to maintain facilities during the period after
abandonment. Asset related costs written off consist of leasehold improvements
of facilities that were abandoned and whose estimated fair market value is zero.
As of January 1, 2000, approximately 80% of the 15 Quickturn sites had been
vacated. Noncancelable lease payments on vacated facilities will be paid out
through 2003.

    In 1998, Cadence recorded $69.5 million of restructuring charges primarily
associated with Cadence's worldwide restructuring plan in the second half of
1998. Cadence's restructuring plans and associated costs consisted of
$36.9 million to terminate approximately 700 employees, $29.9 million to
downsize and close excess facilities, and $2.7 million of other restructuring
expenses. Cadence's restructuring plan was primarily aimed at reducing the cost
of excess personnel and capacity in its services business. Severance costs
included severance benefits, notice pay, and outplacement services. In 1998,
approximately $10.1 million of these costs resulted from the acceleration of
stock options vesting under employment agreements. All terminations and
termination benefits were communicated to the affected employees prior to
year-end and all remaining severance benefits were substantially paid in 1999.

    Facilities consolidation charges of $29.9 million were incurred in
connection with the closure of 58 sales and engineering facilities, including
$16.7 million to downsize and close facilities and $13.2 million in abandonment
costs for the related leasehold improvements. Closure and exit costs included
payments required under lease contracts, less any applicable sublease income
after the properties were abandoned, lease buyout costs, restoration costs
associated with certain lease arrangements, and costs to maintain facilities
during the period after abandonment. Asset related costs written-off consist of
leasehold improvements of facilities that were abandoned and whose estimated
fair market value is zero. As of January 1, 2000, substantially all of the 58
sites had been vacated. Noncancelable lease payments on vacated facilities will
be paid out through 2008.

    Cadence also recorded $2.7 million of other restructuring charges consisting
primarily of cancellation fees associated with certain vendor and conference
arrangements and abandoned software.

    In 1997, Cadence recorded restructuring charges of $24.1 million. These
charges relate to restructuring plans primarily aimed at reducing costs after
Cadence merged with CCT and acquired HLDS.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Cadence's restructuring plans and associated costs consisted of $11.9 million to
terminate approximately 230 employees, $4.4 million to close duplicate and
excess facilities, and $3.7 million of other expenses associated with the
business combinations. Also included in the restructuring costs were
professional fees of $4.1 million for financial advisors, attorneys, and
accountants related to the international restructuring program. The remaining
severance balances were paid out in 1998 and all facilities were vacated.
Noncancelable lease payments on vacated facilities will be paid out through
2000.

    Liabilities for excess facilities and other restructuring charges are
included in accrued and other long-term liabilities, while severance and
benefits liabilities are included in payroll and payroll related accruals. The
following table summarizes the Company's restructuring activity during fiscal
years 1999, 1998, and 1997:



    MERGER COSTS

    In connection with the acquisitions in 1999 and 1997, Cadence charged to
expense Quickturn merger costs of $8.4 million and CCT and SpeedSim merger costs
of $11.5 million, respectively, representing professional fees for financial
advisors, attorneys, and accountants.

    LITIGATION SETTLEMENT

    In 1999, Cadence and Mentor announced the settlement of a patent
infringement action pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Oregon. As a result, the Court entered a judgment declaring that certain
Quickturn patents are valid, enforceable, and were infringed by Mentor's sale of
SimExpress products in the U.S. Mentor is permanently enjoined from producing,
marketing or selling SimExpress emulation systems in the U.S. In connection with
the settlement, Mentor paid Cadence $3 million.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

OTHER INCOME, NET

    Other income, net components for 1999, 1998, and 1997 follows:



SEGMENT REPORTING

    In 1998, Cadence adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or
SFAS, No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information." Under SFAS No. 131, operating segments are defined as components
of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is
evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker when deciding how to
allocate resources and when assessing performance. Cadence currently has three
operating segments: Products, Services, and Maintenance. Cadence's chief
operating decision making group is the Executive Staff, which includes Cadence's
President and Chief Executive Officer and his senior staff.

    Cadence's business activities are organized on the basis of three operating
segments. The Products segment designs and licenses to customers a variety of
electronic design automation products. The Services segment offers methodology
and design services either to assist companies in developing electronic designs
or to assume responsibility for the design effort when customers wish to
outsource this work. The Maintenance segment is primarily a technical support
organization, and maintenance agreements are offered to customers either as part
of our product license agreements or separately. Cadence's organizational
structure reflects this segmentation and segments have not been aggregated for
purposes of this disclosure.

    Segment income from operations is defined as gross margin under generally
accepted accounting principles and excludes operating expenses (marketing and
sales, research and development, and general and administrative), unusual items,
other income, net, and income taxes. Profitability information about Cadence's
segments is available only to the extent of gross margin by segment, and
operating expenses and other income and expense items are managed on a
functional basis. There are no differences between the accounting policies used
to measure profit and loss for segments and those used on a consolidated basis.
Revenue is defined as revenue from external customers with no intersegment
revenue or expenses.

    Cadence's management does not identify or allocate its assets, including
capital expenditures, by operating segment. Accordingly, assets are not being
reported by segment because the information is not available by segment and is
not reviewed by Cadence's Executive Staff to make decisions about resources to
be allocated among the segments or to assess their performance. Depreciation and
amortization is allocated among the segments in order to determine each
segments' gross margin.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    The following tables present information about reported segments for the
years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998:



    Internationally, excluding Japan, Cadence markets and supports its products
and services primarily through its subsidiaries and various distributors.
Following a reorganization of Cadence's distribution channel in Japan in 1997,
Cadence licenses its products through Innotech Corporation, in which Cadence is
an approximately 18% stockholder. Cadence markets its methodology and design
services in Japan through a wholly-owned subsidiary.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    Revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the country in which
the customer is domiciled. In 1999, 1998, and 1997, no one customer accounted
for more than 10% of total revenues. Long-lived assets are attributed to
geographic areas based on the country where the assets are located.

    The following table presents a summary of revenues and long-lived assets by
geographic region for years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and
January 3, 1998:



SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

    In January 2000, Cadence's Board of Directors approved the 2000
Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan, referred to as the 2000 Plan which provides for
the issuance of non-qualified options to its employees to purchase up to
10,000,000 shares of Cadence common stock at an exercise price not less than the
fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Options granted
under the 2000 Plan become exercisable over periods up to four years, with,
generally, one-fourth of the shares vesting one year from the vesting
commencement date with respect to initial grants, and the remaining shares
vesting in 36 equal monthly installments. Options under the 2000 Plan generally
expire ten years from the date of grant.

    In February 2000, the Board of Directors approved a 15,000,000 share
increase for stock repurchases. This increase included authorization to
repurchase 5,000,000 shares on a systematic basis to meet share issuance
requirements of Cadence's newly adopted 2000 Plan and authorization to
repurchase 10,000,000 shares on a non-systematic basis to be used for general
corporate purposes. Cadence is now authorized to repurchase an aggregate of
13,000,000 shares for the 1997 Plan, 5,000,000 for the 2000 Plan, 13,400,000
shares for the ESPP, and 10,000,000 shares for general corporate purposes.

    On February 25, 2000, Cadence and several of its officers were named as
defendants in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California, entitled Maxick v. Cadence Design Systems, Inc. File
No. C 00 0658PJH. The action was brought on behalf of a class of shareholders of
OrCAD, Inc., and alleges violations of Section 14(d)(7) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 14d-10 thereunder. The lawsuit arises
out of Cadence's acquisition of OrCAD, which was completed in August 1999.
Management believes the action is without merit and intends to vigorously defend
it.


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                  SCHEDULE II



- ------------------------

(1) Uncollectible accounts written-off, net of recoveries, and sales returns
    allowance offset against revenues.

(2) Sales returns allowance offset against revenue.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Cadence Design Systems, Inc. has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                             /S/ H. RAYMOND BINGHAM
                      ------------------------------------
                               H. Raymond Bingham
                     PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                             Dated: March 24, 2000

    Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.




    ADDITIONAL DIRECTORS




