
10-K405
FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended                      December 31, 1994
                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from _________________to ________________

                        Commission file number  1-10606

                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                                       77-0148231
(State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

555 River Oaks Parkway, San Jose, California                95134
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:     (408) 943-1234

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share             New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes      X     No          
                                                   ---       ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  / X /

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held on February 28, 1995 by
non-affiliates of the registrant:
                                  $863,877,764

Number of shares of common stock outstanding at March 24, 1995: 38,260,205

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting to be held on May 11,
1995 are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.



                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.

                          1994 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                               
                                     PART I





PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         Cadence Design Systems, Inc. ("Cadence" or the "Company") develops,
markets, and supports electronic design automation ("EDA") software products
and services that automate, enhance and accelerate the design and verification
of integrated circuits ("ICs") and electronic systems.  The Company combines
its software products and professional services to provide customers with
optimized electronic product development environments ("PDEs").

         Cadence was formed as a  result of the merger of SDA Systems, Inc.
("SDA") into ECAD, Inc. ("ECAD") in May 1988.  ECAD commenced operations in
1982.  SDA commenced operations in 1983.  The Company's name was changed to
Cadence Design Systems, Inc. in June 1988.  In March 1989, Cadence acquired
Tangent Systems Corporation ("Tangent").  In December 1989, Cadence merged with
Gateway Design Automation Corporation ("Gateway"), a leading EDA supplier of
digital logic simulation software.  In July 1990, Cadence merged with Automated
Systems, Inc. ("ASI"), a company that marketed products and services related to
the design and manufacture of electronic printed circuit boards ("PCBs") to the
aerospace, defense, computer and telecommunications industries.  In December
1991, Cadence merged with Valid Logic Systems Incorporated ("Valid"), a company
that developed and supported EDA software used to design electronic systems,
PCBs and applications for electronic product designs involving advanced
packaging technology such as hybrids and multi-chip modules ("MCMs").  Valid
had acquired two companies by merger in February 1989:  Integrated Measurements
Systems, Inc.  ("IMS"), a company that manufactures and markets verification
systems used in testing prototype application specific integrated circuits
("ASICs"), and Analog Design Tools, Inc. ("ADT"), a supplier of computer-aided
engineering ("CAE") software for the design of analog electronic circuits.  In
June 1993 Cadence acquired the business and certain assets of Comdisco Systems,
Inc. ("Comdisco") a subsidiary of Comdisco, Inc. Comdisco develops, markets and
supports digital signal processing software products in the electronic systems
applications area.  In December 1993, the Company sold its ASI division.  The
operating results of ASI have been reported as a disposal of a division and
included as loss (income) from operations of disposed division within operating
expenses for all years presented.  The loss on disposal of $6.0 million is
classified in other income (expense) in the Company's 1993 statement of income.
In August 1994, Cadence acquired Redwood Design Automation, Inc. ("Redwood"), a
company that had developed microprocessor and microcontroller software products
in the electronic systems applications area. The operations of Comdisco and
Redwood comprise the Company's Alta Group.  In December 1994, the Company also
acquired the business and certain assets of Parsec Software, Inc.  ("Parsec"),
a company which developed, marketed and supported a software product used for
static timing analysis in the electronic design area.

CADENCE BUSINESS STRATEGY

         Since the inception of the electronic design automation industry, EDA
vendors have been operating under a traditional selling business model where
software products would in general be sold to internal customer design
automation groups.  These internal groups would then be responsible for
building software solutions that would be used by that customer's IC, ASIC and
systems designers.  If problems were subsequently uncovered in the design
process, the internal design automation groups would ask the EDA vendors to fix
the problems by coming in after the fact.

         This has not been a satisfactory working relationship and may in fact
have contributed to the lack of overall satisfaction electronics customers have
had with the EDA industry in general.   In addition, many of the new
technologies being adopted by semiconductor and systems companies are requiring
a new design methodology.  For example, technology changes associated with deep
sub-micron IC design will significantly impact the way semiconductor companies
design chips in the future.

         Cadence has recognized a need in the industry for a new approach.  In
1994, Cadence set a new strategic direction for the Company and a new business
model has emerged.  Central to this new model are its customers' business
objectives.  Cadence intends to provide enhanced value by





understanding the customer's business objectives and translating these
objectives into a PDE.  The PDE is a semi-custom solution that will enable the
building of electronic products that are optimized to a customer's business
objectives.  Cadence is uniquely qualified to help customers build these PDEs
by offering a combination of technology components, professional services and
design and staffing expertise.  Cadence believes that it is positioned to
provide this new level of partnership to customers because of its broad
technology base, design technology expertise, large customer franchise and
global presence.

         Cadence will continue to invest heavily in developing new design
technologies as technology remains a critical component of an overall PDE.  The
Company expects the services component of the business to grow at a rate faster
than the software component in the next few years as its customers recognize
the enhanced value of this model.

THE ELECTRONIC PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT CYCLE

         ELECTRONIC DESIGN AUTOMATION   EDA refers to the use of engineering
software to design electronic circuits and systems.  A critical and enabling
technology for the global electronics industry,  EDA allows engineers to develop
complex and high quality electronic products within accelerated time-to-market
schedules. The Company believes EDA software is one of the key forces driving
electronics innovation and production.

         Virtually all complex computer, telecommunication, aerospace and
semiconductor projects depend on advanced EDA solutions to handle the large
amounts of data associated with these designs. In addition, the short product
life cycles of consumer electronics products depend on the accelerated design
schedules that EDA software allows. EDA software can literally cut months from
a production schedule, allowing design teams to complete projects in a time
frame that would be impossible if done manually.

         Electronics manufacturing has a synergistic relationship with EDA.
Without EDA simulation software to verify design performance, the design
quality required for profitable high volume production of ICs and PCBs would be
compromised.  The capabilities inherent in Electronic Design Automation
technology have also enabled the quick production time and enormous market
growth of semi-custom circuits and subsystems such as ASICs, Programmable Logic
Devices ("PLDs"), Field Programmable Gate Arrays ("FPGAs") and MCMs.

         EDA systems address two major functions in the electronic product
development cycle:  electrical design, often referred to as CAE, and physical
design, often referred to as computer-aided design ("CAD").  Together, CAE and
CAD address the major phases in the design of electronic systems, PCBs, MCMs,
ASICs, PLDs, FPGAs and full-custom ICs.

         CAE DESIGN PROCESSES  The electrical design process involves design
description, model development and simulation of the design's behavior and
timing performance. Additional design automation technologies, such as
architectural design and logic and test synthesis, can simplify the design
entry process; IC floorplanning can provide greater accuracy in simulation.

         Design description (called design entry, design capture or schematic
capture) is the first step in the electronic design process. To handle the
complexity of large designs, design entry often consists of several levels of
design description.  At the highest level of abstraction, a design can be
expressed in a behavioral description, a convention that allows engineers to
describe large and complex designs quickly.  Behavioral design description
typically involves the use of equations, or a special design description
language called a Hardware Description Language ("HDL").

         For digital designs, the most common HDLs are Verilog(R) HDL, a
language developed by Cadence that is now in the public domain, and VHDL, a
language standardized and backed by the U.S. Department of Defense and
supported by Cadence as well as many other EDA vendors.  A similar standard is
emerging for analog design. Cadence introduced an analog hardware description
language ("AHDL") in 1994, and is seeking to make it an industry standard.

         Much as a sketch is detailed into a blueprint before building a house,
behavioral descriptions





must be detailed into lower-level descriptions (also called structural designs)
before the IC or PCB can be manufactured. This process can be done manually, or
in an automated fashion using a process called logic synthesis.  In structural
design, the engineer specifically defines components, their interconnections,
and associated physical properties. This description can be the text file
produced by logic synthesis, or a graphical drawing called a schematic.  In
structural design, critical design time is saved by pulling components from an
electronic library and including them in the design, rather than recreating
symbols and data for each design.  A database, containing the design's
electrical characteristics, interconnections and specific design rules is
automatically created and used as the foundation for subsequent design steps.

         Simulation is used to verify the design electronically before it is
manufactured, enabling engineers to explore design alternatives quickly and to
catch costly design errors before the design is manufactured.  Simulation can
be performed with different levels of design description:  behavioral,
structural and mixed-level.  These levels allow designers to test their design
concept, actual structure and performance, and a combination of concept and
structure.  A key element in the simulation process is the use of component
libraries containing software models of commonly used parts.  These are either
developed and supplied by Cadence, or are provided by third-parties such as
ASIC vendors or independent modeling companies that have certified their
libraries for use with Cadence's simulation products.

         When the functionality and timing are determined to be correct, the
engineer generates a netlist.  A netlist is a non- graphic description, in list
form, of all design components and interconnects.  The netlist is the link
between the CAE design environment and the CAD process.

         CAD DESIGN PROCESSES  An electronic product's physical design process
varies depending on whether the final product is a full-custom IC, an ASIC or a
PCB.  However, the physical design process typically includes the placement of
devices or components, electrical routing or wiring between those devices and
components, analysis of the layout to check for compliance with design rules
and performance specifications and the generation of data for use in
manufacturing and test activities.

         If the design is a full custom IC, the process includes chip-level
architectural design, creation of cells and blocks, floorplanning, placement,
routing and compaction of the cells/blocks, analysis of conformance to
electrical and physical design rules, analysis of wire lengths, load factors
and timing performance, and generation of mask data for chip fabrication.  If
the design is produced as a PCB or MCM incorporating off-the-shelf components,
full custom ICs and/or ASICs, physical design typically includes floorplanning
and pre-placement of critical components, automatic or interactive component
placement, analysis of thermal conditions and high-frequency transmission line
characteristics, analysis of testability and generation of test documentation,
pre-manufacturing clean-up or OglossingO of the board design, and generation
of a wide range of manufacturing data and artwork.

CADENCE'S EDA PRODUCT FAMILY

         Cadence's full line of integrated EDA software solutions has been
developed to support engineers at two levels. At one level, individual
engineers need solutions to solve their specific design needs. A second level
is to support teams of engineers working on larger projects. These engineers
need to share information across their entire company and can do so effectively
with a variety of solutions from Cadence.

         Cadence offers a full line of integrated EDA solutions for three basic
design areas:  IC design, system design and ASIC design, particularly for
high-performance sub-micron ASICs.

         These three areas include solutions for the electrical and physical
design of all types of systems, subsystems and ICs, including PCBs, MCMs,
hybrids, ASICs, PLDs, FPGAs and full custom and semi-custom ICs.

         The major advantages of Cadence products are in the areas of design
methodologies and integration of electrical and physical design tools.
Cadence's commitment to industry standard





hardware platforms, operating systems and networking protocols allows users to
configure an open design environment tailored to their specific needs.  As
design needs grow, the Cadence design environment can be expanded to include
additional Cadence tools or third-party tools.  Customizing environments can be
handled through Cadence's Spectrum Services Group, responsible for working with
customers to define and implement product development environments optimized
for customer project or product needs.

PRODUCT STRATEGY AND PRODUCTS

     Cadence's goal is to provide technology and services that accelerate the
creation of innovative electronic products, enabling designers to bring complex
products to market quickly and reliably. To meet this goal consistently,
Cadence has adopted the following core product strategies:
     -  Focus product development efforts on collapsing the most complex and
        time-consuming aspects of the design process
     -  Deliver solutions that combine software tools, advanced design
        methodologies and specialized services to streamline the overall
        design process and optimize the PDE.

     CORE PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY   Cadence believes that within its solutions
approach, customers demand high performance point tools for certain functions.
By focusing technology development efforts to address the most complex and
time-consuming aspects of the design process, Cadence has delivered a suite of
individual design tools that has become well known in the industry. These
tools, which address all major areas of the design process, include:
     -  Allegro(TM) and Allegro MCM for board and MCM layout respectively, along
        with integrated layout analysis tools, DF/EM Control(TM),
        DF/SigNoise(TM), DF/Thermax(TM), and DF/Viable(TM)
     -  Analog Artist(TM) and Analog Workbench(TM) for analog/mixed-signal IC
        and system design, respectively, Resolve(TM) for analog/mixed-signal
        board optimization
     -  Concept(TM), CheckPlus(TM), Logic Workbench(TM), OpenSim(TM) for
        board-level design and verification
     -  Device-Level Editing(TM) for IC layout
     -  Dracula(R), Diva(TM) and Vampire(TM) for IC physical verification
     -  Gate Ensemble(TM), Cell Ensemble(TM), Block Ensemble(TM) and QPlace(TM)
        for IC and ASIC place and route
     -  Layout Synthesis(TM) for IC synthesis and optimization
     -  Preview(TM) for ASIC and IC floorplanning
     -  Profile(TM) analog behavioral language
     -  Signal Processing Workbench(TM) for DSP electronic system design
     -  Spectre(TM), Cadence Spice(TM) and SpicePlus(TM) for analog simulation
     -  SpectreHDL(TM) analog behavioral simulation system
     -  Synergy(TM) and Placement-Based Synthesis(TM) for circuit synthesis and
        optimization
     -  Team Design Manager(TM) and Component Information Workbench(TM) for
        enterprise data management
     -  Verilog-XL(TM), Verilog-XL Turbo(TM), Verilog-XL Twin-Turbo(TM) and
        Leapfrog(TM) VHDL for digital simulation
     -  Virtuoso(TM) for custom IC layout and library development

     OPEN ENVIRONMENT Cadence pioneered the ability to link and manage a
variety of design tools under a consistent graphical user interface with the
introduction of its framework technologies in 1985.   Cadence has continued to
enhance its framework capabilities so that designers today can work with
multiple tools more efficiently. Through its Team Design Manager and Component
Information Workbench capabilities, Cadence provides for project and data
management and library development and management, both critical for today's
large designs and distributed design teams.

         Cadence's software  operates on industry standard workstations from
Digital Equipment Corporation, Hewlett-Packard/Apollo, International Business
Machines Corporation and Sun Microsystems, Inc. Cadence believes that it is
well positioned to port its systems quickly to other UNIX-based workstations
that may gain broad customer acceptance in the future.

     Cadence works closely with standards organizations to further the value of
electronic design automation solutions.  Cadence is actively involved with CFI
(CAD Framework Initiative), OVI





(Open Verilog International), VI (VHDL International), and VITAL (VHDL
Initiative Towards ASIC Libraries).

INTEGRATED DESIGN SOLUTIONS

         Integrated circuit design requirements continue to grow as ICs become
more complex and product life cycles continue to shrink.  Cadence has a long
history of providing a full line of EDA software combined with advanced design
methodologies and specialized services that help solve  semiconductor company's
evolving design challenges.

         IC DESIGN  Cadence's products have been used in every major type of
electronic product design ranging from microprocessors that are at the heart of
personal computers and workstations to mixed signal chips that are driving the
telecommunications and networking industries.  Cadence's IC solutions feature
proven tools for custom library development and editing, automated custom
design, advanced digital and analog and mixed-signal simulation, and IC
physical verification. Building on this full-line of IC tools, Cadence offers
complete, front-to-back solutions for designing digital, analog, mixed-signal
and microwave ICs.  These solutions streamline the design of complex chips and
help design teams get to market with innovative, high quality products.

         For each step in the IC design process Cadence provides a complete
design environment to meet individual design tasks.  Cadence's solution
includes the Virtuoso(TM) product family of custom layout tools with DLE(TM)
for enhanced layout productivity and Layout Synthesis(TM) for layout synthesis;
the Ensemble(TM) product family with the new Qplace(TM) placement option
providing automatic place and route for both ASIC and custom cell-based design
styles; Chip Assembly Solution for multi-layered block placement and routing;
the Diva(TM) product family of interactive verification tools; and the
Dracula(R) product family of physical verification tools.  Cadence recently
introduced a new IC physical verification tool, Vampire(TM), which provides
significant new capabilities to verify extremely complex circuits accurately
and more efficiently than previously available tools.
         
         For analog designers, Cadence offers complete front-to-back solutions
for analog, mixed-signal and microwave circuits. The Analog Artist(TM) for IC
design provides advanced simulation, layout and verification, featuring
products like the Profile(TM) behavioral modeling and simulation software and
the Spectre(TM) high-speed circuit simulator.  This solution supports design
teams with productive tools for fast, early evaluation of design alternatives
on complex analog designs, allowing teams to manage the critical
interdependencies between electrical design and physical layout.  In 1994,
Cadence announced SpectreHDL(TM), the industry's first analog behavioral
simulation system for analog and mixed-signal applications.

         Cadence's front-to-back IC solution includes a unique timing-driven
design methodology to minimize costly downstream iterations. All tools, from
synthesis and simulation to floorplanning and place and route, share critical
timing information to maintain consistency and ensure that key performance
requirements are met.

         SYSTEM DESIGN  Cadence provides front-to-back digital, analog and
mixed-signal system design solutions.   During 1994, Cadence significantly
enhanced its solution by adding additional capabilities to help customers meet
the growing challenges of successfully incorporating increasingly complex
silicon into system designs for computer, telecommunications, consumer,
automotive, and avionics  applications.

         For board-level design and verification, Cadence provides a complete
flow. Concept(TM) is a mixed-level schematic and HDL design entry tool.
CheckPlus(TM) is a user-customizable rule checking system.  Cadence's Logic
Workbench(TM) is a mixed-level simulation environment that features the
OpenSim(TM) simulation backplane for integrating a variety of commercial or
customer simulators.  Verilog-XL(TM) and Leapfrog(TM) VHDL are fully supported
within the OpenSim(TM) environment.

         Allegro(TM), one of the industry's most comprehensive and
production-proven systems physical  design environments includes: the
DF/Viable(TM) reliability analyzer, the DF/SigNoise(TM) and signal integrity
analysis modules, the DF/Thermax(R) thermal analysis software and
DF/EMControl(TM) for





electromagnetic compliance.

         For analog and mixed-signal board and system design, Cadence provides
the Analog Workbench(TM), for top-down, front-to-back analog design. The Analog
Workbench(TM) provides simulation tools, integrated physical layout, extensive
analog model libraries and advanced analysis tools for tasks such as thermal
analysis and post-layout simulation with extracted temperatures.  The Resolve
Optimizer(TM) tunes (optimizes) design parameters to meet desired system or
circuit performance specifications.

         Cadence's system design tools, combined with design methodologies such
as rules-driven design and correct-by-design, allow engineers to shorten design
cycles and improve the product quality of high-speed PCBs, MCMs, hybrids and
multiwire boards.

         With Cadence's solutions, important design or technology
considerations are defined in advance and are automatically checked and
enforced throughout the design process to shorten design cycles and optimize
designs for performance, quality and cost.  For additional accuracy,
flexibility and overall process control, Cadence's unique "synchronized"
library approach and in-process analysis tools cover electrical, thermal,
reliability, testability, manufacturing and design management constraints.

         ASIC DESIGN  Cadence helped pioneer the use of top-down design by ASIC
designers with its Verilog-XL(TM) simulator and Verilog(R) HDL design language.
Building on what is now the most broadly used top-down method in the industry,
Cadence offers a complete and production-proven top-down design system.

         Capabilities offered include a flexible environment  with Composer(TM)
mixed-level design entry using either Verilog HDL or VHDL; large-capacity,
high-performance logic synthesis and optimization with the Synergy and
Placement-Based Synthesis software; fully integrated mixed-level logic
simulation with Verilog-XL(TM), Verilog-XL Turbo, Verilog-XL Twin Turbo and
Leapfrog(TM) VHDL verification tools.  In addition, the Preview(TM)
floorplanner enables the sharing of consistent timing data from design entry
through place and route. Completing the ASIC design process is Cadence's Gate
Ensemble(TM) place and route system and the new QPlace(TM) option for place and
route.  A new series of design-for-test tools, offering advanced test synthesis
and test pattern generation capabilities, helps to shorten ASIC design cycles
and improve yields.  With Cadence's Model Import capability, customers can use
VHDL for top-down (HDL) design and verify their designs with the Verilog
simulation models that are widely adopted by the major ASIC vendors.

         Cadence's extensive list of over 185 ASIC libraries and endorsements
from major ASIC vendors help ensure a production path for the most complex,
leading-edge ASIC designs.

         Although a top-down design methodology has been available for some
time, many designers have not yet adopted it because of the perceived risks
involved.  To help designers make the transition to top-down design, Cadence
introduced a complete packaged solution of simulation and synthesis software
and specialized services in 1994.

         With the advent of deep submicron technologies, ASIC designers need to
adopt a whole new design approach.  Cadence is leading the industry in deep
sub-micron design by providing new methodologies and new technologies.  During
1994, Cadence announced Silicon Synthesis(TM) to help bridge the gap between
logical and physical design.  Silicon Synthesis is part of Cadence's new
Silicon Based Logic Design (SBLD) methodology to address the issues associated
with deep sub-micron design.

         ELECTRONIC SYSTEM DESIGN AUTOMATION ("ESDA") Cadence continues to
invest in new areas of electronic design automation that further the
productivity and quality of our customers' design process.  With the formation
of the Alta Group, Cadence is  able to provide customers with  a higher level
of design automation for a number of applications areas including wireless
communications, networking and multi-media.

         ESDA is seen as a natural evolution of EDA that enables customers to
include product concept





in the design environment.  Alta's focus is on Virtual Product Design, a new
approach that starts with the creation of a product prototype in
software...what is called virtual prototype.  Virtual prototyping allows the
designer to focus on what is needed for the product to be successful as opposed
to how the design is implemented.

         Alta's product offerings include SPW(TM), HDS(TM) and the
Race/Reveal(TM) Package Components  which include a large applications library
of design blocks, a complete technology base and a visualization and analysis
environment.  Once the design is conceptualized, Alta provides links to
implementation which include multiple capabilities that allow the design to be
passed downstream to ASIC/IC engineers.

         CADENCE SPECTRUM SERVICES  Customizing design automation systems can
require a major time and resource investment from the customer. Spectrum
Services provides a structured consultative approach to analyzing the design
process. After an extensive review of a customer's business and technical
objectives and design processes, a comprehensive plan is developed for an
advanced product development environment. By integrating Cadence's solutions
with the customer's software tools and third-party and custom-designed tools
and augmenting the software with expert advice on streamlining the design
process, customers benefit from a custom optimized Product Development
Environment.

MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS

         CUSTOMERS AND MARKET STRATEGY   Cadence's customers and target markets
include computer manufacturers, consumer electronics companies, defense
electronics companies, merchant semiconductor manufacturers, ASIC foundries and
telecommunications companies.  In addition, Cadence licenses its products to
international distributors in certain countries (see "International Sales" below
in this "Business" section).  In 1994, 1993 and 1992, one customer, Cadence's
Japanese distributor, Innotech Corporation ("Innotech"), accounted for 10%, 13%
and 14% of total revenue, respectively.

         CUSTOMER SUPPORT  Cadence's support group helps tailor new tools to a
customer's existing design environment, train designers on how to best utilize
their EDA software and provide ongoing software updates to enhance product
capabilities. The backbone of the global customer support process is the
customer response center program. These centers give Cadence customers
worldwide access to solution and product experts. A dedicated team of
application engineers is available to address customer applications issues as
well as provide links between customers and Cadence's product developers.

         CUSTOMER PARTNERSHIPS  Cadence has established close working
relationships with a number of semiconductor manufacturers and electronic
systems companies based on a business partnership model that has become a
central business model for the Company.   To ensure that research and
development activities are properly prioritized, and also that finished
products meet customers' needs, major new product developments begin after
collaboration with a Cadence customer/partner.

         There are presently several variations of Cadence partnerships:  four
groups of technology partnerships (involving Cadence's IC, HDL and Systems
Groups, respectively) and a fifth group that focuses on development of specific
products ("Product Development Partnerships").

         These technology partnerships allow Cadence to work with customers'
designers  in defining and developing state-of-the-art solutions for current
and emerging design approaches.  Through an engineer exchange program,
customers will often work on-site at Cadence facilities, giving Cadence
valuable insight into customer product planning.  Product Development
Partnerships are generally directed at the development and refinement of
specific tools.

         INDUSTRY ALLIANCES  Cadence cooperates with other design automation
vendors to deliver full-scope technology to its customers.  Through Cadence's
Connections(TM) Program, customers can more easily integrate Cadence products
and technologies with other company's products and technologies. This provides
customers with the flexibility to mix and match third-party and proprietary
tools to





specifically meet their design automation needs. Today over 90 companies have
integrated their tools with Cadence's software.

            UNIVERSITY SOFTWARE PROGRAM  Cadence supports EDA research by
sharing its design automation technology and expertise with universities. More
than 500 universities worldwide participate,  including the University of
California at Berkeley, Duke University, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Stanford University.

SALES

            As of December 31, 1994, Cadence had 738 employees engaged in field
sales and sales support, representing approximately 30% of its total workforce.
Cadence's salesforce presents Cadence and its products for licensing to
prospective customers, while applications engineers provide technical pre-sales
as well as post-sales support.  Due to the complexity of EDA products, the
selling cycle is generally long, with three to six months being typical.
Activities during this sales cycle typically consist of a technical
presentation, a product demonstration, a design benchmark and often, an on-site
customer evaluation of Cadence software.

            NORTH AMERICAN SALES  In the domestic market Cadence uses a direct
sales force, utilizing both sales people and applications engineers in each
territory to license its products.  As of December 31, 1994, Cadence had 328
regional sales people and applications engineers licensing and supporting
Cadence's products and 64 other sales and support personnel in the United
States and Canada.  Cadence maintains domestic sales and support offices at
various locations across the United States.

            INTERNATIONAL SALES  In Europe and Asia, Cadence markets and
supports its products primarily through 12 majority-owned subsidiaries, which,
as of December 31, 1994, employed 246 salespeople and applications engineers
and 100 other sales and support personnel.

            Cadence licenses its IC products in Japan primarily through a
distributor, Innotech.    Cadence's systems products are marketed in Japan
through a majority-owned subsidiary and, until 1992, through a distributor,
CIC, Inc.  In March 1992 Cadence reached an agreement to acquire CIC, Inc. and
consolidated its systems product marketing in Japan utilizing its subsidiary in
Japan, Cadence Design Systems K.K. ("Cadence K.K.").

            Cadence also serves its international customers through a
manufacturer's representative in Europe, European Silicon Structures B.V.
("ES2").  The Company also uses distributors in various countries.  In The
People's Republic of China, Brazil, Australia, India, Singapore, Spain,
Portugal, Greece and Turkey, Cadence uses IMAG Industries, QuickChip Eng. E.
Ltda., Cadence Design Systems Pty Ltd., Wipro, CAD/CAM Systems, SIDSA,
Technologias de Microelectronica, AMBIT Limited and MOMENTUM, respectively, as
its distributors.

            Revenue from international sources was $221.6 million, $183.6
million and $215.4 million or approximately 52%, 50% and 51% of total revenue
for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

            Prices for international customers are quoted from an international
price list.  The list is maintained in U.S. dollars but reflects the higher
cost  of doing business outside the United States.  International customers are
invoiced in U.S. dollars using current exchange rates or the local currency.
In light of the large portion of Cadence's revenue derived from international
sales, if the dollar strengthens in relation to the Japanese yen or certain
European currencies, Cadence's revenue from international sales may be
adversely affected.  Foreign subsidiaries' marketing and support expenses are
incurred in local currency and license fees paid by the subsidiaries to Cadence
are paid in local currency or U.S. dollars.  Cadence is subject to the currency
conversion risks inherent in international transactions.  It is Cadence's
policy to manage and minimize its foreign exchange risks.  Cadence enters into
forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency
fluctuations resulting from transaction gains and losses, and any gains or
losses resulting from these transactions are recorded to other income and
expense in the Company's statement of income. Cadence is required to have
United States Department of Commerce export licenses for shipment of its
products outside





the United States.  Although to date Cadence has not encountered any material
difficulty in obtaining these licenses, any difficulty in obtaining necessary
export licenses in the future could have an adverse effect on revenue.

SERVICE AND SUPPORT

            STANDARD SERVICE AND SUPPORT  Cadence believes that customer
support is a key factor in successfully marketing EDA products and generating
repeat orders.  A majority of Cadence's customers have purchased one-year
renewable maintenance contracts.

            Product maintenance contracts entitle the customers to product
updates, documentation and ongoing support.  Cadence tracks all service reports
using an on-line database that provides a mechanism for tracking progress in
solving any reported problem from first report to final software solution.

            ENHANCED SERVICE AND SUPPORT  Installing a new design automation
system, tailoring it to a customer's design environment and training designers
in the efficient use of this new system requires a major time and resource
investment from the customer.  In response to customer requests, Cadence has
developed an enhanced consulting service capability.  Cadence consulting
services is comprised of Cadence employees; application and consulting
engineers, whose services can be retained by customers to provide a wide range
of engineering activities that include training, contract programming, design
and building PDEs including outsourcing of a customer's design activities.
These services are intended to assist customers in becoming productive quickly
through use of Cadence products and methodologies, thereby improving customer
satisfaction and increasing the likelihood of follow-on sales.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING

            As of December 31, 1994, Cadence's product development was
performed by 774 employees, 448 employees located at its research and
development facilities in San Jose, Foster City, Santa Cruz and San Diego,
California, 113 employees in Chelmsford, Massachusetts, 98 employees in India,
18 employees in Taiwan and 17 employees in Lawrence, Kansas.  The Company also
has 9 employees in various locations throughout North America and 3 individuals
in Europe and Asia. The development group includes experts in database
structures and industry specific algorithm technology.  In June 1990, the
Company entered into a joint venture  ("EuCAD") as majority owner with ES2.
During 1992, the Company acquired the minority interest in the joint venture.
EuCAD has 18 employees in the U.K. and specializes in research and development
activities in the EDA and ASIC design markets.  The Company also has 50
employees in Beaverton, Oregon at its IMS subsidiary.

            For the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, Cadence's
research and development expenses were approximately $83.4 million, $84.3
million and $81.2 million (before capitalizing approximately $10.8 million,
$15.2 million and $14.7 million of software development costs in 1994, 1993 and
1992), respectively.  Cadence began capitalizing certain of its software
development costs in 1986 in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 86.  See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at
December 31, 1994 for a more complete description of Cadence's capitalization
of certain software development costs.

            Certain faculty members from the University of California at
Berkeley, considered to be a leading university for IC design software
research, have served as consultants to Cadence since its inception.  These
consultants have helped Cadence to stay abreast of the latest developments and
directions in the rapidly changing IC design software industry.

COMPETITION

          The Company faces intense competition in the EDA product market,
which continues to be characterized by aggressive pricing practices and new
market entrants.  The Company competes with other companies that sell competing
products and with internal EDA software development groups of potential
customers.  Some of the Company's competitors may have substantially greater
financial,





marketing and technological resources than the Company.  There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully.

         Because the EDA industry is labor intensive rather than capital
intensive, the number of potential competitors to the Company is significant.
A potential competitor who possesses the necessary knowledge of electronic
circuit and systems design, production and operation could develop EDA tools
using a moderately priced computer workstation and bring such tools to market
quickly.  If such an EDA software tool were to surpass the technology of a tool
of the Company, the attention of customers might rapidly shift to the new tool,
resulting in a precipitous decline in the sales of the Company's comparable
product.

         The Company has in the past discounted EDA product prices where deemed
necessary for competitive reasons or in connection with volume purchase
agreements with major customers.  In the past, discounts of up to 60% of the
list prices of the EDA products have been given.  Although the Company is
striving to reduce discounts, it anticipates that it may be required to
discount EDA product prices under similar circumstances in the future.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

            Cadence relies principally upon a combination of patent, copyright
and trade secret laws and license or nondisclosure agreements to protect its
proprietary interest in its products.   Cadence's products are generally
licensed to end users pursuant to a license agreement that restricts the use of
the products to the customer's internal purposes.  Cadence protects the source
code version of its products as a trade secret and as an unpublished
copyrighted work or, on a limited basis through patents.  Cadence has made
portions of its source code available to certain customers  under very limited
circumstances, subject to confidentiality, use and other restrictions.  Despite
these precautions, it may be possible for third parties or former employees to
copy aspects of Cadence's products or to obtain and use information without
authorization that Cadence regards as proprietary.  The Company has relatively
few patents, and existing copyright laws afford only limited protection.  There
has been an increase in the number of patents issued in the United States
relating to EDA software, and, accordingly, the risk of patent infringement in
the industry can be expected to increase.  In addition, effective patent,
copyright and trade secret protection for software products may be unavailable
in certain foreign locations.

            Cadence believes that patent, trade secret and copyright protection
are less significant to Cadence's success than factors such as the knowledge,
ability and experience of Cadence's personnel, new product development,
frequent product enhancements, name recognition and ongoing reliable product
maintenance.  Cadence does not believe that its products or processes infringe
on existing proprietary rights of others.

            DRACULA(R), Verilog(R), Prance(R), BONeS(R), Verifault-XL(R),
DIVA(R), SPW(R) and Thermax(R) are registered trademarks of Cadence, and many
of the other Cadence product and product family names used are common law
trademarks of Cadence.

MANUFACTURING AND BACKLOG

            Cadence's software production operations consist of configuring the
proper version of a product, recording it on magnetic tape or CD-ROM, and
producing customer unique access keys which allow customers to use purchased
products.  User manuals and other documentation are generally available on
CD-ROM, but are occasionally supplied in hard copy format.  Shipments are
generally made within two weeks of receiving an order.

            Cadence's product line includes a series of design verification
systems offered by IMS.  Logic Master is a family of design verification
systems designed to work with most computer systems, workstations or terminals
to receive and execute test commands and report the results of test procedures.
These systems are designed to match varying customer requirements.  Generally,
they differ from one another as to speed, size of the device to be verified and
flexibility in the number and variety of applications in which a system can be
used and price.





EMPLOYEES

            As of December 31, 1994, Cadence employed 2,449 persons, including
1,429 in sales, marketing, support and manufacturing activities, 774 in product
development and 246 in management, administration and finance.  Of these
employees, 1,903 were located in the United States and 546 were located in 14
other countries.  None of Cadence's employees are represented by a labor union,
and Cadence has experienced no work stoppages.  Cadence believes that its
employee relations are good.

            Competition in recruiting of personnel in the software industry is
intense.  Cadence believes that its future success will depend in part on its
continued ability to recruit and retain highly skilled management, marketing
and technical personnel.

ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES

            During June 1989 Cadence acquired a 49% interest as a limited
partner in a real estate partnership.  Also in 1989, the Company signed
agreements to lease four buildings located at 535-575 River Oaks Parkway, San
Jose, California ("the River Oaks Campus") from this limited partnership that
is the owner of the River Oaks Campus for a period of ten years.  During June
1991 the Company acquired a 46.5% interest as a limited partner in an
additional real estate partnership and signed lease agreements which commenced
in the second quarter of 1992 to lease three buildings close to the River Oaks
Campus from the limited partnership for a period of fifteen years.   At this
same time the Company also acquired an 80% interest in a third real estate
partnership which purchased adjacent land for future expansion.  The three
buildings and adjacent land are referred to as "the Seely Campus".

            In March 1994 the Company acquired all third-party interests in the
Seely Campus for approximately $8.7 million in cash and the assumption of a
secured construction loan of approximately $23.5 million.  The Company paid off
the secured construction loan with its cash reserves in May 1994.  In October
1994 the Company acquired all third-party interests in the River Oaks Campus
for approximately $5.9 million in cash.  The River Oaks Campus remains subject
to a secured note in the amount of approximately $23.7 million.   The Company
expects that it will refinance the secured note of $23.7 million prior to
August 1995 when it becomes due, or it may elect to pay the secured note with
its cash reserves. The total square footage of these previously leased
buildings is approximately 483,000.  The rent expense incurred in 1994 related
to these buildings was approximately $5.8 million.

            The Company continues to lease three buildings with approximately
209,000 square feet  at Plumeria Drive in San Jose, California at an annual
rental rate of approximately $3.4 million.  The leases related to approximately
129,000 square feet expire in March 1998 and the remaining lease expires in
February 1999.  Approximately one-third of the square footage of the Plumeria
facilities has been subleased and the balance remains available for sublease.
Cadence also leases approximately 100,000 square feet of facilities in
Chelmsford, Massachusetts at an annual rate of approximately $.5 million.
Cadence leases additional facilities for its sales offices in the United States
and various foreign countries, and research and development facilities in  San
Diego and Santa Cruz, California, Lawrence, Kansas, United Kingdom, France,
Taiwan and India at an aggregate annual rental of approximately $7.5 million.

            Cadence also leases approximately 75,000 square feet in a building
in Beaverton, Oregon, at a current annual rental of approximately $.7 million,
which houses manufacturing, engineering, marketing and administrative
operations for its IMS subsidiary and a regional software sales office.  The
Company's Alta group also leases approximately 30,000 square feet in a building
in Foster City, California at an annual cost of approximately $.6 million.

            Cadence believes that these facilities are adequate for its current
needs and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as
needed to accommodate expansion of Cadence's operations.





ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

             Securities class action lawsuits were filed against the Company
and certain of its officers and directors in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division, on April 8 and 9,
1991.  The lawsuits, which were consolidated into a single action, allege
violation of certain federal securities laws by maintaining artificially high
market prices for the Company's common stock through alleged misrepresentations
and nondisclosures regarding the Company's financial condition.  Court rulings
in response to the Company's motions to dismiss the lawsuit limited the class
period to include purchasers of the Company's common stock between January 29,
1991 and April 3, 1991.

             On March 23, 1993, a separate class action lawsuit was filed
against the Company and certain of its directors and officers in the United
States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division.
This lawsuit, which was consolidated into a single action with two virtually
identical lawsuits filed later in March and in April 1993, alleges violation of
certain federal securities laws by maintaining artificially high market prices
for the Company's common stock through alleged misrepresentations and
nondisclosures regarding the Company's financial condition.  On November 18,
1993, the District Court granted the Company's motion to dismiss the 1993
complaint.  The effect of the ruling was to dismiss the complaint except as to
a statement allegedly made on January 28, 1993, but plaintiffs were granted
leave to further amend their complaint.

             In April 1994, the Company entered into tentative agreements to
settle both of the above class action lawsuits for a combined settlement of
$16.5 million, of which approximately $7.5 million was covered by the Company's
insurance carriers.  The agreements are subject to final court approval.  At
December 31, 1994, the total settlement amount has been remitted into escrow.




ITEM 4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

NONE





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive corporate officers of Cadence are as follows:




            Executive corporate officers are appointed by the Board of
Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board.





            JOSEPH B. COSTELLO has served as President and a director of the
Company since May 1988.  In addition, Mr. Costello has served as Chief
Executive Officer of the Company since June 1988.  Previously he served as a
director of SDA Systems, Inc. ("SDA"), from May 1987 to May 1988.  From March
1986 to March 1987, he served as SDA's President and Chief Operating Officer.
He is also a director of Oracle Corporation, Microelectronics and Computer
Technology Corporation and Pano Corporation Display Systems.

            H. RAYMOND BINGHAM joined Cadence in June 1993 as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer.  From June 1985 to May 1993 he served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Lion Hotels and
Inns,  which owns and operates a chain of 54 hotels.  From 1981 to 1985 Mr.
Bingham was the Managing Director of Agrico Overseas Investment Company, a
subsidiary of the Williams Companies, and was responsible for developing and
managing international manufacturing joint ventures.

            M. ROBERT LEACH joined Cadence in June 1993 as Senior Vice
President of Spectrum Services.  From September 1981 to June 1993 Mr. Leach
served as a partner in the worldwide electronics industry consulting practice
for Andersen Consulting.

            JOHN OLSEN joined Cadence in May 1994 as Senior Vice President of
Field Operations and became Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in January
1995.  For the five years immediately preceding his joining Cadence, Mr. Olsen
was a partner with KPMG Peat Marwick.

            SCOTT W. SHERWOOD joined Cadence in July 1990 as Vice President of
Human Resources and was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources in
February 1992.  From 1983 to 1990, he was Vice President Human Resources of
Mead Data Central, a division of Mead Corporation and provider of information
services to the legal community.

            JAMES E. SOLOMON has served as a director of the Company since May
1988.  Mr. Solomon has also served as Senior Vice President and Principal
Technologist for the Company since February 1994.  Prior to that, he served as
Senior Vice President of the Company's Analog Division from February 1993 to
February 1994 and as President of the Company's Analog Division from December
1988 to February 1993.  Mr. Solomon also served as Co-Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Company from May 1988 until May 1989.  As a founder of SDA,
Mr. Solomon served as its Chief Executive Officer from its inception in July
1983 to May 1988, as its President from July 1983 to March 1987, and its
Chairman of the Board from March 1987 until its merger with ECAD, Inc. in May
1988.  Mr.  Solomon is also the Chairman of the Board of Smart Machines, Inc.

            MARK S. GARRETT joined Cadence in June 1991 as Division
Controller/Director of Finance, Systems Division.  From December 1991 to
January 1995 Mr. Garrett held various financial positions at Cadence including
Division Controller/Director of Finance, CAE Division; Group Director,
Technology Development Finance; and Group Director, Spectrum Services Business
Operations.  In February 1995 Mr. Garrett was appointed Vice President
Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis.  Prior to joining Cadence, Mr.
Garrett held various financial positions at IBM Corporation since June 1979,
most recently as Site Financial Planning Manager, Storage Systems Products
Division.

            DOUGLAS J. MCCUTCHEON joined Cadence in January 1991 as its
Director, Financial Planning and Analysis, and in July 1991 became its Vice
President, Corporate Finance.  From November 1989 to November 1990, Mr.
McCutcheon was President of Toshiba America Medical Credit, Inc., the
wholly-owned captive financing subsidiary of Toshiba America Medical Systems,
Inc., which sells and provides maintenance services for diagnostic and
therapeutic medical systems.  From November 1980 to November 1989, Mr.
McCutcheon held various positions with Diasonics, Inc., a medical equipment
company, most recently as Vice President and Treasurer.

            WILLIAM PORTER joined Cadence in February 1994 as Vice President,
Corporate Controller and Assistant Secretary.  From September 1988 to February
1994 Mr. Porter served as Technical Accounting and Reporting Manager and most
recently as Controller of Cupertino Operations with Apple Computer Corporation,
a worldwide manufacturer of computer equipment.  From 1976 until 1988 Mr.
Porter held various positions with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently as a
Senior Audit Manager.





PART II

ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

            The Company's Common Stock was traded on the NASDAQ National Market
System under the NASDAQ symbol ECAD from the Company's initial public offering
at $7.83 per share on June 10, 1987 until June 1, 1988 when it began trading
under the NASDAQ symbol CDNC.  Since September 17, 1990 the Company's Common
Stock has traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CDN.  The
Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its common stock in
the past and none are planned to be paid in the future.  In addition, the
Company's line of credit agreement requires the prior written consent of the
lenders before the Company can pay any cash dividends on its capital stock.  As
of December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately 1,975 stockholders of
record, which does not include those held in street or nominee name.

            The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for
the Common Stock for each calendar quarter in the two- year period ended
December 31, 1994.




ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

For the years ended December 31,
(In thousands, except per share amounts)




(1)   See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
      discussion.





ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      Cadence (the "Company") designs, develops, markets and supports
electronic design automation ("EDA") software products primarily used to
automate, enhance and accelerate the design, verification and testing of
integrated circuits, electronic systems and printed circuit boards. The Company
combines its software products and professional services to provide customers
with optimized electronic product development environments.

      In December 1994 the Company acquired the business and certain assets of
Parsec Software, Inc. ("Parsec").  Parsec developed, marketed and supported a
software product used for static timing analysis in the electronic design area.
The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, the results of
the Parsec business from the date of the acquisition forward have been recorded
in the Company's consolidated financial statements.

      In August 1994 the Company acquired the business and certain assets of
Redwood Design Automation, Inc. ("Redwood").  Redwood developed, marketed and
supported advanced software tools for electronic systems design.  The
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, the results of
Redwood from the date of the acquisition forward have been recorded in the
Company's consolidated financial statements.  In connection with the
acquisition, the Company recorded a one-time charge to operations of $4.7
million for the write-off of in-process research and development that had not
reached technological feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable
alternative future use.  The Redwood business is now a part of the Company's
Alta division.

      In June 1993 the Company acquired the business and certain assets of
Comdisco Systems, Inc. ("Comdisco"), a subsidiary of Comdisco, Inc. The
Comdisco business involves the development, marketing and support of digital
signal processing software products in the electronic systems applications
area. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, the
results of Comdisco from the date of the acquisition forward have been recorded
in the Company's consolidated financial statements.  The Comdisco business is
now a part of the Company's Alta division.

      In December 1993 the Company sold its Automated Systems ("ASI") division.
ASI manufactures and provides design services for complex printed circuit
boards. The operating results of ASI have been reported as a disposal of a
division and are included as an unusual item within operating expenses in the
consolidated statements of income for all years presented.  The loss on
disposal of approximately $6.0 million is classified in other income (expense)
in the 1993 statement of income.





Results of Operations

The following table sets forth for the years indicated (a) the percentage of
total revenue represented by each item reflected in the Company's consolidated
statements of income and (b) the percentage increase (decrease) in each such
item from the prior year.




*      Not meaningful
(1)    The Company capitalizes software development costs in accordance with
       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86.  Total research and
       development expenses incurred prior to capitalization represented 19%,
       23% and 19% of total revenue for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The
       percentage change from 1993 to 1994 and from 1992 to 1993 was a decrease
       of 1% and an increase of 4%, respectively, on a pre-capitalization
       basis.





Revenue

             Total revenue was approximately $429.1 million, $368.6 million and
$418.7 million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  Product revenue increased approximately $28.9 million in 1994 as
compared to 1993 due to increased sales volume related to the Company's
integrated circuit, automated test engineering and Alta products (formerly
Comdisco and Redwood), and increased Spectrum Services consulting revenue. The
Alta product revenue increase was a result of a full year of revenue related to
the Comdisco business included in 1994 as compared to 1993, which included
revenue only from the date of acquisition forward.   Spectrum Services
consulting revenue increased in 1994 due to increased demand for this business.
Product revenue decreased approximately $74.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 1993 as compared to the prior year due to weak economic
conditions, principally in Japan and lower sales volume for the Company's
products, as well as a shift in the Company's systems product strategy.  This
shift in strategy refocused the Company's development efforts on a product
previously developed and marketed by an acquired company.  This product had
been discontinued near the time of the acquisition due to an overlap of
products in the newly combined company.  As a result of this change, a
significant portion of the Company's selling efforts were focused on explaining
this shift in product strategy to the Company's existing and potential
customers rather than engaging in normal sales activities, resulting in a
reduction in revenue. This decrease in product revenue in 1993 was offset
somewhat by the acquisition of Comdisco.

             Maintenance revenue continued to increase each year growing by
approximately $31.6 million in 1994 compared to 1993 and $23.9 million in 1993
compared to 1992.  These increases were attributable to an increase in the
Company's installed base of products as well as the Company's  continued
effort toward obtaining customer renewals of maintenance coverage.  As a
percentage of total revenue, maintenance revenue has grown over the last three
years from approximately 25% to approximately 37% of total revenue.  The
increase in maintenance revenue as a percentage of total revenue was also due
to the lower levels of product revenue in 1993 and 1994 as compared to 1992.

             Revenue from international sources was approximately $221.6
million, $183.6 million and $215.4 million,  or 52%, 50% and 51% of total
revenue for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
The increase in 1994 was due to increased sales volume in all major regions
which includes Europe and Asia/Pacific. The decrease in 1993 was principally
related to decreased sales volume in Japan.  In 1994, the Company took certain
steps to address the impact on its revenue of the weak Japanese economy.  The
Company reorganized its direct sales force in Japan, made changes to certain of
its distribution relationships and introduced new systems products to address
customer design needs.  Although the Company experienced increased revenue from
Japan in 1994 as compared to 1993, there can be no assurance that these steps
will continue to strengthen the Company's revenue volume in Japan.  It is
anticipated that international revenue will continue to constitute a
significant portion of total revenue.  International revenues are subject to
certain additional risks normally associated with international operations,
including, among others, adoption and expansion of government trade
restrictions, volatile foreign exchange rates, currency conversion risks,
limitations on repatriation of earnings and reduced protection of intellectual
property rights.  Due to the January 1995 earthquake in Japan, the Company
could experience a reduced level of activity from this important market, which
could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations.

Cost of Revenue

             Total cost of revenue was approximately $94.6 million, $89.4
million and $94.0 million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  Total cost of revenue increased $5.3 million in 1994 as compared
to 1993 and decreased $4.6 million in 1993 as compared to 1992.  The increase
in 1994 was due to a $7.1  million increase in costs associated with the
continued expansion of the Spectrum Services consulting business and a $2.5
million increase in costs related to the Alta division (formerly Redwood and
Comdisco operations).  These increases were offset by  cost reductions totaling
$3.6 million in occupancy, due to the Company's purchase of previously leased
facilities in the first and fourth quarters of 1994, and cost of maintenance.
The decrease in 1993 consisted of a $10.1 million decrease in product cost of
revenue due to lower revenue levels, reduced costs due to restructure actions
including related headcount reductions, as





well as the discontinuance in 1992 of sales of third-party hardware.  This
decrease was offset by a $5.5 million increase in cost of product associated
with the acquired Comdisco operations and increased amortization of
intangibles.  Cost of maintenance decreased $2.2 million and $2.1 million in
1994 and 1993, respectively, as compared to the prior year, even though revenue
increased.  These decreases were due to the streamlining of the maintenance
renewal process, which includes a more cost-effective update program whereby
update releases are aggregated into fewer releases each year, and the
increasing use of CD-ROM, a lower cost media, for software code distribution
and documentation.  As a percentage of total revenue, cost of maintenance
revenue has remained in the range of 3% to 4% and cost of product revenue has
approximated 18% to 20%.

Gross Margin

             As a result of the factors discussed above, gross margin was 78%,
76% and 78% for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

             The Company's strategy is to help its customers meet their
business objectives through optimized product design environments.  The Company
facilitates these optimized design environments through a combination of
software products and professional services.  While historically the Company's
professional services revenue has been less than 10% of its product revenue,
this portion of its business is expected to become a larger percentage of the
Company's product revenue in the future.  As a result, the Company's gross
margin percentage is expected to be reduced as the level of professional
service revenue increases because professional services have a lower gross
profit percentage than software product sales.

Marketing and Sales

             Marketing and sales expenses increased $3.2 million in 1994 as
compared to 1993 and $1.2 million in 1993 as compared to 1992.  The increase in
1994 was due to increased costs of $4.7 million related to the Alta operations
which were offset by reductions in discretionary spending.  The increase in
1993 as compared to 1992 was due to increased costs of $4.4 million associated
with the Alta operations offset by reduced costs related to restructure actions
taken in the first quarter of 1993, including headcount reduction.  Marketing
and sales expenses were 38%, 43% and 38% of revenue in 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  The higher percentage in 1993 was due primarily to the decrease
in total revenue in 1993 as compared to 1992.

Research and Development

             Total research and development expenditures incurred prior to
capitalization of software development costs decreased 1% in 1994 as compared
to 1993 and increased 4% in 1993 as compared to 1992, a decrease of $.9 million
and an increase of approximately $3.1 million, respectively.  The decrease in
1994 was due to lower occupancy costs of $2.5 million and decreased capital
equipment costs of $1.5 million offset by increased costs of $2.4 million
related to the Alta division. The increase in 1993 was primarily a result of
increased expenses of $3.2 million due to the addition of Alta operations.
Prior to the reduction for capitalization of software development costs,
research and development expenses comprised approximately 19%, 23% and 19% of
total revenue or approximately $83.4 million, $84.3 million and $81.2 million
for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The increase as a percentage
of revenue in 1993 was primarily due to the decrease in total revenue in 1993
as compared to 1992.  The Company capitalized approximately $10.8 million,
$15.2 million and $14.7 million of software development costs in the years
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, which represented approximately 13%, 18% and
18% of total research and development expenditures made in those years.  The
amount of capitalized software development costs in any given period may vary
depending on the exact nature of the development performed.

General and Administrative

             General and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.0
million in 1994 as compared to 1993 and $4.9 million in 1993 as compared to
1992. The increase in 1994 was primarily due to increased costs totaling $2.5
million related to increased employee related costs and Alta operations which
were offset by cost savings of $1.3 million resulting from lower occupancy
costs.





The increase in 1993 compared to 1992 was due to the addition of Alta
operations, increased bad debt expense due to the write-off of uncollectible
accounts receivable and increased professional services and employee-related
expenses.  As a percentage of total revenue, general and administrative
expenses were 9%, 11% and 8% for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.  The higher percentage in 1993 was partially due to the
decrease in total revenue in 1993 as compared to 1992.

Unusual Items

             Unusual items were expenses of $14.7 million and $19.7 million and
income of $.3 million for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

             The unusual items in 1994 include costs of $4.7 million related to
the September 1994  write-off of in-process research and development associated
with the Redwood acquisition as Redwood's development efforts that had not
reached technological feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable
alternative future use.

             Also included in the 1994 unusual items was a $10.0 million
provision for settlement of litigation.  In April 1994 the Company entered into
tentative agreements to settle two class action lawsuits for a combined
settlement of $16.5 million, of which approximately $7.5 million was covered by
the Company's insurance carriers.  Reflected in the statement of income in 1994
is the net settlement cost of approximately $9.0 million plus approximately
$1.0 million for related legal costs.

             The $19.7 million of unusual items in 1993 includes restructuring
costs of $13.5 million recorded in March 1993 associated with a planned
restructure of certain areas of sales, operations and administration due to
business conditions.  The restructuring charge primarily reflects costs
associated with employee terminations, excess facilities and the write-off of
purchased software and intangibles arising from required adjustments to the
Company's cost structure necessitated by lower revenue levels.  Also included
in the restructuring charge was an additional provision for doubtful accounts
and the write-off of certain software development costs resulting from changes
in the Company's systems product strategy as discussed above under "Revenue".

             In December 1993 the Company also sold its ASI division.  Included
in unusual items for the respective years was the division's loss from
operations of $6.2 million in 1993 and income of $.3 million in 1992.

Other Income and Expense

      Other income and expense netted to income of $4.8 million in 1994,
expense of $4.4 million in 1993 and income of $2.6 million in 1992.  Other
income and expense includes interest income, interest expense, minority
interest and foreign exchange gains and losses.  Interest income was $3.3
million, $3.2 million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1994,
1993 and 1992, respectively.  Interest expense was $1.0 million, $.7 million
and $.9 million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  The increase in interest expense in 1994 as compared to 1993 was
due to an increase in notes payable related to the purchase of  corporate
facilities in the first and fourth quarters of 1994.  The note payable related
to the first quarter facility purchase was paid off in full in May 1994 from
the Company's cash reserves.  Also included in other income in 1994 was the
fourth quarter gain of $4.2 million related to the sale of an equity
investment.  In 1993 the Company recorded a $6.0 million loss on the disposal
of its ASI division which is also included in other income and expense for that
year.

Provision for Income Taxes

         As of December 31, 1994 the Company had gross deferred tax assets of
approximately $71.5 million against which the Company has recorded a valuation
allowance of $53.2 million, resulting in a net deferred tax asset of $18.3
million.  A significant portion of the net operating loss and credit
carryforwards which created the deferred tax asset were generated by acquired
companies prior to their merger with the Company and by restructuring charges
recorded as a result of these mergers.  Management has determined, based on the
Company's history of prior operating earnings and its





expectations for future years, that the recorded net deferred tax asset is
realizable.  However, no assurances can be given that sufficient taxable income
will be generated in future years for the utilization of the net deferred tax
asset.

         The Company's effective tax rate for 1994 was 25%.  This rate reflects
the reduction in the valuation allowance during 1994 primarily from the
utilization of net operating losses generated in prior years.

         In 1993 the Company's tax provision was zero as a result of the
operating loss in 1993 and the recording of the benefit of certain foreign
withholding and income taxes.

         In 1992 the Company's effective tax rate was 19%.  This rate reflects
the utilization of foreign tax credits and the reduction in the valuation
allowance from the utilization of net operating losses of acquired companies
and temporary items generated in prior years.

Quarterly Results of Operations

             The following table sets forth selected unaudited quarterly
financial information for the Company's last eight quarters.  This unaudited
information has been prepared on the same basis as the audited information and
in management's opinion reflects all adjustments (which include only normal
recurring adjustments) necessary for the fair presentation of the information
for the periods presented.  Based on the Company's operating history and
factors that may cause fluctuations in the quarterly results,
quarter-to-quarter comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of
future performance.  Although the Company's revenues are not generally seasonal
in nature, the Company  has experienced decreases in first quarter revenue
versus the preceding fourth quarter which is believed to result primarily from
the capital purchase cycle of the Company's customers.

             The level of the Company's operating expenses are partially based
on its expectations of future revenue.  The Company's results of operations may
be adversely affected if revenue does not materialize in a period as expected.
Since expense levels are usually committed in advance of revenues and because
only a small portion of expenses vary with revenue, the Company's net income
may be impacted significantly by lower revenue.  The Company's revenue
increased each quarter in 1994 as compared to the same quarter in the prior
year.  This increase was due principally to increased sales volume of the
Company's products.  Also included in the 1994 quarterly operations was a $4.2
million gain in the fourth quarter for the sale of an equity investment, a $4.7
million charge in the third quarter related to the write-off of in-process
research and development, a $12.1 million provision for settlement of
litigation in the first quarter and a $2.1 million credit to the provision for
settlement of litigation recorded in the second quarter.  In addition, in 1993,
the fourth quarter included a $6.0 million loss on disposal related to ASI and
the first quarter included approximately $13.5 million of restructuring costs.


(In thousands, except
  per share data)







Inflation
             To date, the Company's operations have not been impacted
significantly by inflation.

Factors That May Affect Future Results

         The Company's future operating results are dependent on the Company's
ability to successfully implement its strategy to help its customers meet their
business objectives through optimized product design environments ("PDEs").
The Company provides these PDEs through a combination of software products and
professional services.  Inherent in implementing this strategy are a number of
risks that the Company must manage and which could affect its future operating
results.

         The Company competes in the highly competitive EDA market which
continues to be characterized by aggressive pricing practices, rapid
technological change and new market entrants.  The Company's success is
dependent on its ability to develop innovative, cost-competitive EDA software
products and to bring them to market in a timely manner.

         In order to more effectively work with customers to help them build
optimized PDEs, the Company has realigned its sales force along industry lines.
The Company expects this industry focus will allow the sales force to better
understand and prepare solutions to its customers' business needs thereby
increasing revenue.  Should the benefits of this realignment take longer to
realize than expected, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected.

         Another important part of the Company's strategy is to help its
customers through an increased offering of professional services.  While the
Company has provided professional services to its customers for a number of
years, there are a number of risks the Company must successfully address in
order to develop this portion of its business.  These risks include the ability
to successfully recruit, train and retain a skilled consulting force and the
ability to profitably deliver consulting services that meet customer
expectations.  The Company's profitability could be adversely affected if it is
unable to develop its consulting services business as expected.

         Due to the foregoing, as well as other factors, past financial
performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future
performance.  In addition, the Company's participation in a highly dynamic
industry often results in significant volatility of the Company's common stock
price.  Any change in revenues or operating results below levels expected by
securities analysts for the Company or its competitors, and the timing of the
announcement of such shortfalls, could have an immediate and significant
adverse effect on the trading price of the Company's common stock in any given
period.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

             The Company's cash and cash investments increased $13.6 million,
decreased $17.6 million and decreased $8.7 million for the years ended December
31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. The Company generated approximately
$154.4 million, $97.3 million and $45.6 million in cash from operating
activities for those same periods.  The increase in 1994 as compared to 1993
was due primarily to an increase in net income and deferred revenue and a
decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets. The increase in 1993 as compared
to 1992 was due to a decrease in accounts receivable and an increase in
deferred revenue and accrued liabilities and payables which were offset by the
decrease in net income. The Company's principal investing activities consisted
of the purchase of facilities and equipment and the capitalization of software
development costs, which in total were $40.6 million, $33.7 million and $45.7
million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  In
addition, the other major component of investing activities was the purchase
and maturity of short-term investments.  The Company's primary financing
activities included the sale of common stock pursuant to employee benefit plans
of $13.5 million, $4.3 million and $8.5 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively, and the repurchase of $95.1 million, $52.2 and $10.8 million of
common stock for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  In addition, the Company made principal payments on capital
leases and notes payable of $29.2 million, $8.1 million and $13.5 million in
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.





             Working capital at December 31, 1994 was $27.5 million compared
with $105.0 million  at December 31, 1993 and $153.3 million at December 31,
1992.  The decrease in 1994 as compared to 1993 was primarily due to an
increase in notes payable of $23.7 million related to the purchase of corporate
facilities, an increase in deferred revenue of $23.1 million due to increased
maintenance billings and a $23.3 million decrease in accounts receivable due to
improved days sales outstanding. The decrease in 1993 as compared to 1992 was
primarily due to a decrease of $30.9 million in accounts receivable primarily
resulting from lower revenue, a $12.8 million increase in deferred revenue and
a $7.3 million increase in accrued liabilities related to restructuring
accruals recorded in 1993.

             Long-term obligations decreased $1.9 million in 1994 as compared
to the prior year and $1.7 million in 1993 as compared to 1992 due to a
decrease in capital lease borrowings.

             The Company has an authorized stock repurchase program.  Prior to
1993, the Company had authorized the repurchase of up to 2.8 million shares of
common stock in the open market.  In 1993 and 1994, the Company authorized the
repurchase of an additional 4.0 million and 13.4 million shares, respectively,
of common stock from time to time.  In total, as of December 31, 1994,
approximately 11.5 million shares had been repurchased.  Some repurchases are
necessary to satisfy estimated requirements for shares to be issued under the
Company's employee stock option and stock purchase plans as well as in
connection with acquisitions.  As part of its authorized stock repurchase
program, the Company sold 5.0 million put warrants and purchased 3.8 million
call options through private placement.  The Company had a maximum potential
obligation related to the put warrants at December 31, 1994 to buy back five
million shares of its common stock at an aggregate price of approximately $81.3
million.  The put warrants are exercisable on various dates between April 1995
and November 1995.  Alternatively, the Company can elect to settle the put
warrants with stock which could cause the Company to issue a substantial number
of shares, depending on the amounts of the repurchase obligations and the per
share value of the Company's common stock at the time of exercise. In addition,
settlement of put warrants in stock or cash could lead to the disposition by
put warrant holders of shares of the Company's common stock that such holders
may have accumulated in anticipation of the exercise of the put warrants or
call options.

             In addition to the $96.9 million in cash and cash investments and
short-term investments at December 31, 1994, the Company had available
approximately $10.0 million under a bank line of credit, which expires in June
1995.  The Company is currently in negotiations with the bank regarding
possible extension/expansion of this line of credit, but there can be no
assurance that mutually acceptable terms can be reached.  An unused bank line
of credit of $7.5 million was canceled by the Company effective December 30,
1994.

             Anticipated cash requirements in 1995 include the purchase of
treasury stock through the exercise of the Company's call options and through
the open market.  The Company has the right to purchase 3.8 million shares
through the exercise of call options during 1995 at a cost of approximately
$66.3 million.  Subsequent to December 31, 1994 the Company repurchased a
portion of an outstanding warrant applicable to 1,000,000 shares of common
stock for approximately $12.1 million (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).  Other cash requirements include the repayment in August
1995, if not refinanced, of a $23.7 million secured loan assumed as part of a
1994 purchase of corporate facilities and contemplated additions of capital
equipment of approximately $35 million.

             The Company anticipates that current cash and short-term
investment balances, cash flows from operations and short and long-term
borrowing capabilities will be sufficient to meet its working capital and
capital expenditure requirements on a short and long-term basis.





ITEM 8.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

             The quarterly supplementary data is included as part of Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations."  The financial statements required by this item are submitted as a
separate section of this Form 10-K.  See Item 14.


ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

             None


PART III


ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

             The information required by Item 10 as to directors is incorporated
by reference from the section entitled "Election of Directors" in the Company's
Proxy Statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be held May 11, 1995.
The information required by this Item as to executive officers is included in
Part I under "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

             The Company has reviewed all Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with respect to
1994 and based thereon has determined that there has been no failure to timely
file any reports required by Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for 1994 or prior years, except that one Form 3 initially filed for Mr.
Johnston, a member of the Board of Directors, was amended to reflect additional
ownership of 300 shares of the Company's common stock.  This amended Form 3 was
filed March 1995.


ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

             The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference
from the sections entitled "Director Compensation" and "Executive Compensation"
in the Company's Proxy Statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held May 11, 1995.


ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

             The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference
from the section entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its annual stockholders'
meeting to be held May 11, 1995.


ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

             The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference
from the section entitled "Certain Transactions" in the Company's Proxy
Statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be held May 11, 1995.






PART IV


ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K



                  All other schedules are omitted because they are not required
  or the required information is shown in the financial statements or notes
  thereto.


(a)3.       Exhibits

            The following exhibits are filed herewith:





































REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To Cadence Design Systems, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cadence Design
Systems, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1994.  These financial statements and the schedule referred to 
below are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on 
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.  The schedule listed in Item 14. (a) 2. is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                                     /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
                                                     -------------------------
                                                         Arthur Andersen LLP
San Jose, California                                     
January 20, 1995





                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

                                     ASSETS


                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.





                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)




   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)





   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.





                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.





                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994

1.           ORGANIZATION OF THE COMPANY

             Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (the "Company") develops, markets and
supports computer-aided design software products that automate, enhance and
accelerate the design, verification and testing of integrated circuits and
complex electronic circuits and systems.  The Company combines leading-edge
technology with a complementary set of services that enable customers to
improve the quality and time-to-market performance of innovative electronic
products.

2.          SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

             CONSOLIDATION

             The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany
accounts and transactions.  The ownership interest of minority participants in
subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned was approximately $.9 million and $.7
million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively, and is included in other
long-term liabilities in the accompanying balance sheets.

             FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

             The functional currency of all of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries is the local currency.  Gains and losses resulting from the
translation of the subsidiaries' financial statements are reported as a
separate component of stockholders' equity.

             FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS

             The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to reduce the
impact of foreign currency fluctuations on those balance sheet accounts
denominated in foreign currency, other than the entities' local currency, that
give rise to transaction gains or losses.  As of December 31, 1994 the Company
had entered into forward exchange contracts in the amount of approximately
$20.0 million  maturing February 1, 1995.  The fair value of foreign currency
contracts is estimated by obtaining quotes from banks.  The market value was
approximately the same as the carrying value at December 31, 1994.  Gains and
losses on these foreign exchange contracts are recorded in other income and
expense.

             REVENUE RECOGNITION

             Product revenue consists principally of revenue earned under
software license agreements and is generally recognized when the software has
been shipped and there are no significant obligations remaining.   Revenue from
services is recognized as the related services are performed or when certain
milestones are met.  Test equipment revenue is recognized upon shipment of the
test equipment.

             Maintenance revenue consists of fees for providing system updates,
user documentation and technical support for software products.  Maintenance
revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement.

             In 1994, 1993 and 1992 one customer (a distributor), which is also
a minority interest participant in a subsidiary of the Company, accounted for
10%, 13% and 14% of total revenue, respectively.  Outstanding trade accounts
receivable from this related party were approximately $3.7 million and $10.3
million as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

             PUT WARRANTS AND CALL OPTIONS

             The Company has an authorized stock repurchase program.  In total,
as of December 31,





1994, the Company had authorized the repurchase of 20.2 million shares and
approximately 11.5 million shares had been repurchased.  Some repurchases are
necessary to satisfy estimated requirements for shares to be issued under the
Company's employee stock option and stock purchase plans as well as in
connection with acquisitions.

             Throughout 1994 as part of its authorized stock repurchase
program, the Company sold 5.0 million put warrants through private placement.
Each warrant entitles the holder to sell one share of common stock to the
Company on a specified date at a specified price ranging from $13.13 to $20.59
per share.  Additionally, during this same period, the Company  purchased
approximately 3.8 million call options that entitle the Company to buy on a
specified date one share of common stock, at a specified price ranging from
$14.94 to $22.84 per share.  The Company has the right to settle the put
warrants with stock, or a cash or stock settlement equal to the difference
between the exercise price and market value at the date of exercise.  The put
warrants and call options outstanding at December 31, 1994 are exercisable on
various dates between April 1995 and November 1995.

             At December 31, 1994 the Company has both the unconditional right
and the intent to settle these put warrants with stock, and therefore, no
amount has been classified out of stockholders' equity in the accompanying
balance sheet.  Gains or losses from the exercise of these put warrants and
call options are reported in stockholders' equity.

             Settlement of the put warrants with stock could cause the Company
to issue a substantial number of shares, depending on the amounts of the
repurchase obligations and the per share value of the Company's common stock at
the time of exercise.  In addition, settlement of put warrants in stock or cash
could lead to the disposition by put warrant holders of shares of the Company's
common stock that such holders may have accumulated in anticipation of the
exercise of the put warrants or call options.

             CASH, CASH INVESTMENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

             The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments and
certificates of deposit with an original maturity of ninety days or less to be
cash investments.

                Effective January 1, 1994 the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."  There was no effect on the 
Company's operating results due to the adoption of this statement.  Under SFAS
115, the Company classifies its investments in debt securities as
"held-to-maturity".  Accordingly, these investments, which mature at various
dates through August 1995, are valued using the amortized cost method.  The
gross unrealized        holding gains and losses at December 31, 1994 are not   
material.  Short-term investments consisted of the following:
        


             CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

             Financial instruments which may potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash investments,
short-term investments and accounts receivable.  The Company's investment
policy limits investments to short-term, low-risk instruments.  Concentration
of credit risk related to accounts receivable is limited due to the varied
customers comprising the Company's customer base and their dispersion across
geographies.





             INVENTORIES

             Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out
method) or market.  Cost includes labor, material and manufacturing overhead.
Inventories are comprised of testing equipment.

             PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

             Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation and
amortization are provided over the following estimated useful lives, by the
straight-line method.



             SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS

             The Company capitalizes software development costs in compliance
with SFAS No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold,
Leased or Otherwise Marketed."  Capitalization of software development costs
begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility for the product.
The establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment of
the recoverability of these costs requires considerable judgment by management
with respect to certain external factors, including, but not limited to,
anticipated future gross product revenue, estimated economic life and changes
in software and hardware technology.

             Amortization of capitalized software development costs begins when
the products are available for general release to customers and is generally
computed on a  straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life
of the product (three to five years).  Amortization, which is included in cost
of revenue in the accompanying statements of income, amounted to approximately
$14.2 million, $13.1 million and $11.0 million for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.   The Company wrote off $1.5 million of
capitalized software in 1993 for projects discontinued during the year.  The
Company also wrote off $2.8 million of capitalized software in 1992 due to an
overlap of products with those of an acquired company.

             PURCHASED SOFTWARE AND INTANGIBLES

             Purchased software and intangibles are stated at cost less
accumulated amortization.  Amortization is generally computed on a
straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the
underlying product (two to seven years).

             INCOME TAXES

             The Company accounts for its income taxes under the provisions of
SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes". This statement provides for a
liability approach under which deferred income taxes are provided based upon
enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the taxes become
payable.

             NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE

             Net income per share for each period is calculated by dividing net
income attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of
common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during the period
(calculated using the modified treasury stock method).  Common stock
equivalents consist of dilutive shares issuable upon the exercise of
outstanding common stock options and warrants and the conversion of Series A-1
preferred stock.  Net loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss
attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding.  Fully diluted net income (loss) per share is substantially
the same as primary net income (loss) per share.





3.           BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS


4.           OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)



             In October 1994 the Company sold an equity investment carried at
cost for a gain of approximately $4.2 million.  This investment was included in
other assets in the accompanying 1993 balance sheet.





5.           SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION



             During 1992 all of the Company's outstanding Series A-1 preferred
stock was converted to approximately 861,000 shares of the Company's common
stock.


6.           ACQUISITIONS

             REDWOOD DESIGN AUTOMATION

             In August 1994 the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock
of Redwood Design Automation, Inc. ("Redwood") for approximately 419,000 shares
of the Company's common stock valued at  $4.6 million and $1.8 million of net
advances made to Redwood, prior to the acquisition, which were not repaid.
Redwood was a development stage company formed to design, develop and market
software for use in electronic systems design. The acquisition was accounted
for as a purchase, and the results of Redwood from the date of acquisition
forward have been recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In connection with the acquisition, net intangibles of $6.8 million were
acquired, of which $4.7 million is reflected as a one-time charge to operations
for the write-off of in-process research and development that had not reached
technological feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable
alternative future use.  This one-time charge is reflected in the Company's
statement of income as an unusual item within operating expenses (see Note 7).
The remaining intangibles of $2.1 million are included in purchased software
and intangibles in the accompanying balance sheet and are being amortized over
their useful life of two years.

             In connection with the acquisition, net assets acquired were as
follows (in thousands):




             The following unaudited pro forma information shows the results of
operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 as if the
Redwood acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each period presented and
at the purchase price established in August 1994.  The results are not
necessarily indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition actually
been made at the beginning of each of the respective periods presented or of
future operations of the combined





companies.  The pro forma results for 1994 combine the Company's results for
the twelve month period ended December 31, 1994 with the results of Redwood for
the period from January 1, 1994 through the date of acquisition.  The pro forma
results for 1993 combine the Company's results for the twelve month period
ended December 31, 1993 with Redwood's twelve month fiscal period from February
1, 1993 through January 31, 1994. The following unaudited pro forma results
include the straight-line amortization of intangibles over a period of two
years.



             REAL ESTATE PARTNERSHIPS

             In March 1994 the Company acquired all third-party interests in
two real estate partnerships in which it was a 46.5% and 80% limited partner,
respectively, for approximately $8.7 million in cash and the assumption of a
secured construction loan of approximately $23.5 million.  The Company leased
buildings from one of the limited partnerships and the second limited
partnership owned unencumbered land adjacent to the leased property.  The
Company paid off the secured construction loan with its cash reserves in May
1994.

             In October 1994 the Company acquired all third-party interests in
a third real estate partnership in which it was a 49% limited partner for
approximately $5.9 million in cash.  The partnership owns land and buildings
which are leased to the Company and are subject to a secured note in the amount
of approximately $23.7 million.

             In connection with the acquisition of the partnerships, net assets
acquired were as follows (in thousands):


             PARSEC SOFTWARE, INC.

             In December 1994 the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock
of Parsec Software, Inc. ("Parsec") for approximately 84,000 shares of the
Company's common stock valued at $1.2 million.  The acquisition was accounted
for as a purchase and the results of Parsec from the date of acquisition
forward have been recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Comparative pro forma information has not been presented as the results of
operations for Parsec are not material to the Company's consolidated financial
statements.   In connection with the acquisition, purchased software and
intangibles of $1.2 million were acquired and are being amortized over a useful
life of three years. These assets are included in purchased software and
intangibles in the accompanying balance sheet.

             COMDISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

             In June 1993 the Company acquired the business and certain assets
of Comdisco Systems, Inc. ("Comdisco"), a subsidiary of Comdisco, Inc. in
exchange for 1,050,000 shares of the Company's common stock and a warrant to
purchase 1,300,000 shares of the Company's common stock valued in total at
$10.9 million.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  Accordingly,
the results of Comdisco from the date of acquisition forward have been recorded
in the Company's consolidated financial statements.  Comparative pro forma
information has not been presented as the





results of operations of Comdisco are not material to the Company's
consolidated financial statements.  The acquisition costs include amounts paid
for the net tangible assets of Comdisco and purchased software and other
intangibles. The cost in excess of net assets acquired was $6.5 million which
is being amortized over seven years and is included in purchased software and
intangibles in the accompanying balance sheets.

             In connection with the acquisition, net assets acquired were as
follows (in thousands):



             JAPAN DISTRIBUTORSHIP

             In March 1992 the Company acquired a distributorship in Japan,
which as its sole operation, had distributed the Company's systems products.
As part of this transaction, the Company paid approximately $.4 million in cash
and issued a note for $3.1 million in exchange for stock and a consulting
agreement.  This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  The cost in
excess of the net assets acquired was approximately $5.2 million which is being
amortized over five years and is included in other assets in the accompanying
balance sheets. The accumulated amortization as of December 31, 1994 and 1993
was approximately  $3.2 million and $2.1 million,  respectively.

             In connection with the acquisition, net assets acquired were as
follows (in thousands):



7.    UNUSUAL ITEMS

             Unusual items included within operating expenses are comprised of
the following:



             WRITE-OFF OF IN-PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

             In August 1994 the Company acquired Redwood Design Automation,
Inc.  In connection with the acquisition, net intangibles of $6.8 million were
acquired, of which $4.7 million is reflected as a one-time charge to operations
for the write-off of in-process research and development that had not reached
technological feasibility and, in management's opinion, had no probable
alternative future use.





             PROVISION FOR SETTLEMENT OF LITIGATION

             In April 1994 the Company entered into tentative agreements to
settle two class action lawsuits for a combined settlement of $16.5 million, of
which approximately $7.5 million was covered by the Company's insurance
carriers.  Reflected in the Company's operating expenses is the net settlement
cost of approximately $9.0 million plus approximately $1.0 million for related
legal costs.

             LOSS (INCOME) FROM OPERATIONS OF DISPOSED DIVISION

             In December 1993 the Company sold its Automated Systems ("ASI")
division.   ASI was sold for a nominal amount of cash and future royalties
amounting to 5% of gross revenues of ASI for the period from January 1, 1994
through December 31, 2003, up to maximum royalties of $12.0 million.  The
royalties will be recorded in future periods as earned.   In light of the
nominal proceeds received, the sale of ASI resulted in a loss on disposal of
approximately $6.0 million.  The loss was due principally to the loss on the
sale of the net operating assets, as well as amounts accrued for estimated
costs to be incurred in connection with the disposal.  As of December 31, 1994
and 1993, respectively, the Company has recorded approximately $.9 million and
$1.4 million in accrued liabilities and approximately $1.1 million and $2.0
million in other long-term liabilities for liabilities associated with the
disposed division.

             The Company had previously reported the operating results of ASI
as a discontinued operation in the statement of income.  In connection with the
filing of a registration statement on Form S-3 to register common stock issued
to the shareholders of Comdisco and Redwood, the Securities and Exchange
Commission reviewed the Company's 1993 financial statements and requested that
the results of operations and the loss on disposal of ASI be reclassified as
components of continuing operations since ASI was not deemed a major line of
business.  As a result, the Company has classified the respective income and
loss from operations of the disposed division as unusual items within
operations in the accompanying statements of income.  The loss of $6.0 million
on disposal of the division is classified in other income (expense) in the
accompanying 1993 statement of income (see Note 4).   Revenue from this
division was approximately $11.2 million and $15.8 million for the years ending
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

             RESTRUCTURING COSTS

             In March 1993 the Company recorded restructuring costs of
approximately $13.5 million associated with a planned restructure of certain
areas of sales, operations and administration due to business conditions.  The
restructuring charge included approximately $4.5 million for employee
terminations.  The Company terminated approximately 270 employees in 1993 at an
actual total cost of approximately $4.6 million.  In addition, the
restructuring charge included approximately $3.5 million for excess facilities
and approximately $2.1 million for the write-off of purchased software and
intangibles arising from required adjustments to the Company's cost structure
necessitated by lower revenue levels.  Substantially all of this excess
facilities accrual was utilized by December 31, 1993.  The restructuring charge
also included an additional provision for doubtful accounts of approximately
$3.0 million, which was utilized by December 31, 1993 and write-off of certain
software development costs of $.4 million resulting from changes in the systems
product strategy.








8.            NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

              Notes payable and long-term obligations consisted of the
following:


             The mortgage is secured by land and buildings which are part of
the Company's corporate facilities.  The carrying amount of the Company's
secured mortgage is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or
similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the
same remaining maturity.  The carrying amount of the Company's secured mortgage
approximates its fair value at December 31, 1994.

9.           LEASES

             Facilities and equipment are leased under various capital and
operating leases expiring on different dates through the year 2008.  Certain of
these leases contain renewal options.  Rental expense was approximately $19.0
million, $20.0 million and $21.3 million for the years ended December 31, 1994,
1993 and 1992, respectively.

             In connection with a previous merger, the Company has closed
certain facilities and, accordingly, has accrued for estimated future minimum
rent and maintenance costs related to these facilities.  Total costs accrued at
December 31, 1994 were $11.3 million of which $2.3 million is included in
accrued liabilities and approximately $9.0 million is included in lease
liabilities in the accompanying balance sheet.

             At December 31, 1994 future minimum lease payments under capital
and operating leases and the present value of the capital lease payments were
as follows (in thousands):







      The cost of equipment under capital leases included in the balance sheet
as property, plant and equipment at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was
approximately $17.9 million and $22.2 million, respectively.  Accumulated
amortization of the leased equipment at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was
approximately $13.9 million and $16.2 million, respectively.

10.          LINES OF CREDIT

             The Company has a line of credit with a bank allowing for  maximum
borrowings of $10.0 million in the form of domestic rate revolving loans with
interest at the bank's prime lending rate or Eurodollar rate loans with
interest that exceeds three-quarters of one percent of the bank's current
Eurodollar rate quoted for the same amount and maturity.  There were no
outstanding borrowings at December 31, 1994 under this agreement.  Certain
financial covenants and restrictions are included in this agreement that the
Company was in compliance with at December 31, 1994.

             This line of credit expires June 30, 1995, however, the Company is
currently in negotiations with the bank regarding possible extension/expansion
of this line of credit, but there can be no assurance that mutually acceptable
terms can be reached.  An unused bank line of credit of $7.5 million was
canceled by the Company effective December 30, 1994.

11.          COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

             The Company has entered into an executive compensation agreement
with one of its executive officers.  This agreement provides severance benefits
to the executive in the event that within 120 days before or two years after
any change in control, or sale of all or substantially all assets of the
Company, the executive's employment is terminated by the Company or the
executive, in circumstances described in the agreement.  The severance benefits
are a cash payment of two times the executive's base salary, plus accelerated
vesting of all outstanding stock options.

             Securities class action lawsuits were filed against the Company
and certain of its officers and directors in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division, on April 8 and 9,
1991.  The lawsuits, which were consolidated into a single action, allege
violation of certain federal securities laws by maintaining artificially high
market prices for the Company's common stock through alleged misrepresentations
and nondisclosures regarding the Company's financial condition.  Court rulings
in response to the Company's motions to dismiss the lawsuit limited the class
period to include purchasers of the Company's common stock between January 29,
1991 and April 3, 1991.

             On March 23, 1993 a separate class action lawsuit was filed
against the Company and certain of its directors and officers in the United
States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division.
This lawsuit, which was consolidated into a single action with two virtually
identical lawsuits filed later in March and in April 1993, alleges violation of
certain federal securities laws by maintaining artificially high market prices
for the Company's common stock through alleged misrepresentations and
nondisclosures regarding the Company's financial condition.  On November 18,
1993, the District Court granted the Company's motion to dismiss the 1993
complaint.  The effect of the ruling was to dismiss the complaint except as to
a statement allegedly made on January 28, 1993, but plaintiffs were granted
leave to further amend their complaint.

             In April 1994 the Company entered into tentative agreements to
settle both of the above class action lawsuits for a combined settlement of
$16.5 million, of which approximately $7.5 million was covered by the Company's
insurance carriers.  The agreements are subject to final court approval.  At
December 31, 1994, the total settlement amount has been remitted into escrow.

             The Company is involved in various disputes and litigation matters
which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes
and lawsuits related to intellectual property, contract law and employee
relations matters.  Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these
disputes and litigation matters will not have a material adverse impact on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.





12.          STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

             REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

             The Company has 2,000,000 shares of authorized and unissued
preferred stock at $.01 par value per share.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993
there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.

             In 1990 a corporation obtained a minority interest in the Company
through an initial investment of approximately $11.0 million in exchange for
86,133 shares of newly issued Series A-1 voting convertible preferred stock,
convertible into 861,330 common shares, at a purchase price equivalent to
$13.00 per common share.  All of the preferred stock was converted to common
stock during 1992.

             Each share of Series A-1 preferred stock was entitled to receive
cumulative annual dividends.  The dividends were payable in cash.  In 1992 the
Company recorded approximately $.6 million for dividends paid to the
corporation.


             EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS

             The Company's Employee Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") provides for
the issuance of either incentive or nonqualified options at an exercise price
not less than fair market value of the stock on the date of grant.  Options
granted under the Plan become exercisable over periods of one to four years and
expire five to ten years from the date of grant.  During 1993 holders of the
Company's options were given the opportunity to exchange previously granted
stock options for new common stock options exercisable at $8.81 per share, the
fair market value of the common stock on the date of exchange.  Under the terms
of the new options, one-third of the shares vest one year from the date of
grant and the remaining shares vest in 24 equal monthly installments.  Options
to purchase 4,856,026 shares were exchanged.

             During 1993 the Company adopted a Non Statutory-Stock Option Plan
(the "Non-Statutory Plan").  Options granted under the Non-Statutory Plan
become exercisable over a four year period, with one-fourth of the shares
vesting one year from the vesting commencement date and the remaining shares
vesting in 36 equal monthly installments.  The options granted under the
Non-Statutory Plan generally expire ten years from the date of grant.

             STOCK OPTION PLANS - COMPANIES ACQUIRED

             The Company has assumed certain options granted to former
employees of companies acquired (the "Acquired Options").  The Acquired Options
were assumed by the Company outside the Plan, but all are administered as if
assumed under the Plan.  All of the Acquired Options  have been adjusted to
effectuate the conversion under the terms of the Agreements and Plans of
Reorganization between the Company and the companies acquired.  The Acquired
Options generally become exercisable over a four year period and generally
expire either five or ten years from the date of grant.  No additional options
will be granted under any of the acquired companies' plans.





             Combined activity with respect to the Employee Stock Option Plans
and Stock Option Plans - Companies Acquired was as follows:



             At December 31, 1994 there were 4,453,794 options exercisable to
purchase shares of common stock at prices ranging from $.41 to $27.44 per share
and 2,018,590 options were available for future grant.

             OPTION AGREEMENTS

             The Company occasionally has issued options outside of the Plan.
As of December 31, 1994 options to purchase 44,480 shares were outstanding
under these agreements, of which 21,405 were exercisable at prices ranging from
$9.31 to $18.25 per share.

             DIRECTORS STOCK OPTION PLANS

             The Company's Board of Directors has adopted the 1988 and 1993
Directors Stock Option Plans (the "Directors Plans") in the indicated years.
The Company has reserved 445,000 shares of common stock for issuance under
these plans.  The Directors Plans provide for the issuance of nonqualified
stock options to nonemployee directors of the Company with an exercise price
equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant.
Options granted under the Directors Plans have a term of up to ten years, with
one-third of the shares vesting one year from the date of grant and two-thirds
ratably over the subsequent two years.  As of December 31, 1994 options to
purchase 195,000 shares of common stock at $9.31 to $21.63 per share were
outstanding under the Directors Plans, of which options for 99,536 shares were
exercisable at prices ranging from $9.31 to $21.63 per share.    Options to
purchase 47,223 shares are available for future grant under the Directors
Plans.  Options to purchase 107,777 shares of common stock have been exercised
and 95,000 have expired as of December 31, 1994 under the Directors Plans.  No
additional options will be granted under the 1988 Directors Plan.

             EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLANS

             The Company has reserved 3,000,000 shares of common stock for
issuance under the 1990 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").  Under the
ESPP the Company's employees may purchase shares of common stock at a price per
share that is 85% of the lesser of the fair market value as of the beginning or
the end of the semiannual option periods.  For the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992, shares issued under the plan were 641,988, 487,941 and
324,183, respectively.  As of December 31, 1994, 1,307,680 shares were
available for future purchase under the ESPP.







             WARRANT

             In connection with the purchase of certain assets of Comdisco, the
Company issued a warrant to purchase 1,300,000 shares of the Company's common
stock at $14.50 per share.  Subsequent to December 31, 1994, the Company
repurchased a portion of the warrant applicable to 1,000,000 shares for
approximately $12.1 million.  The warrant for the remaining 300,000 shares
expires in June 2003 and can be exercised at any time in increments of not less
than 50,000 shares.  The warrant was valued at the time of issuance at
approximately $1.8 million which was included as part of the total purchase
price of Comdisco.

             RESERVED FOR FUTURE ISSUANCE

             As of December 31, 1994 the Company has reserved the following
shares of authorized but unissued common stock for future issuance:



             STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

             During 1989 the Company adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan.  As
part of this plan the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend of one
Common Share Purchase Right (the "Right") for each share of the Company's
common stock outstanding on July 20, 1989.  The Board also authorized the
issuance of one such Right for each share of the Company's common stock issued
after July 20, 1989 until the occurrence of certain events.

             Each Right entitles the holder thereof to purchase one share of
the Company's common stock for $100, subject to adjustment in certain events.
The Rights are not exercisable until the occurrence of certain events related
to a person acquiring, or announcing the intention to acquire, 20% or more of
the Company's common stock.  Upon such acquisition, each Right (other than
those held by the acquiring person) will be exercisable for that number of
shares of the Company's common stock having a market value of two times the
exercise price of the Right.  If the Company subsequently enters into certain
business combinations, each Right (other than those held by the acquiring
person) will be exercisable for that number of shares of common stock of the
other party to the business combination having a market value of two times the
exercise price of the Right.  The Rights currently trade with the Company's
common stock.  The Rights are subject to redemption at the option of the Board
of Directors at a price of $.01 per Right until the occurrence of certain
events, and are exchangeable for the Company's common stock, at the discretion
of the Board of Directors, under certain circumstances.  The Rights expire on
May 30, 1999.



13.          INCOME TAXES

             The provision for income taxes consisted of the following
components:



             Income (loss) before income taxes for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992 included income of approximately $19.2 million, $9.2
million and $5.5 million, respectively, from the Company's foreign
subsidiaries.

             The provision for income taxes is net of the benefit of operating
loss carryforwards totaling $20.8 million, $2.8 million and $8.3 million, for
the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

             The provision for income taxes differs from the amount estimated
by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income (loss) before
income taxes as follows:









             The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted of
the following :




             The deferred assets which will affect equity or intangibles and
which will not be available to offset future provisions for income taxes are
stated in the above table as "Valuation allowance-equity/intangibles."  The net
operating losses will expire at various dates from 1997 through the year 2008
and tax credit carry forwards will expire at various dates from 1995 through
the year 2009.

             The Company's federal income tax returns for 1989 through 1991
have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS").  Tax credits of
$15.6 million have been disallowed by the IRS. The Company is contesting these
adjustments and is pursuing administrative remedies.  Management believes that
adequate provision has been made for any deficiency that may result from this
examination and that the resolution of this matter will not have a material
impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.






14.          OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA

             The Company operates primarily in one industry segment -- the
development and marketing of computer-aided design software and related
services.  The Company's products have been marketed internationally through
distributors and through the Company's subsidiaries in Europe and Asia/Pacific.
Intercompany revenue results from licenses that are based on a percentage of
the subsidiaries' revenue from unaffiliated customers.  The following table
presents a summary of operations by geographic area (in thousands):



(1)      Domestic operations revenue includes export revenue of approximately
         $12.9 million, $10.1 million, and $11.5 million to Europe for the
         years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, and
         approximately $65.4 million, $49.0 million and $75.4 million to
         Asia/Pacific for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
         respectively.







                                  SCHEDULE II


                          CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.
                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)








(1)    Uncollectible accounts written-off
(2)    Inventory costs written-off
(3)    Incurred severance and facilities costs relating to the Company's
       restructuring and a reclassification of $3,500 in 1993 from accrued
       operating lease obligations to lease liabilities.
(4)    Reflects a reclassification of $2,009 from accrued liabilities to other
       noncurrent liabilities.
(5)    Incurred severance and facilities costs relating to the Company's
       disposal of a division.





                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Cadence Design Systems, Inc.  has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, March
31, 1995.


                                        CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS, INC.



                                        /s/ Joseph B. Costello
                                        -----------------------------------
                                        Joseph B. Costello
                                        President & Chief Executive Officer

         Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capabilities and on the date indicated.







ADDITIONAL DIRECTORS









                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS






















*             A Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed
              as an exhibit to Form 10-K.





