Item 1. BUSINESS

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern
Company is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign
corporation under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock
of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating
public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states
of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the
traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Poweris a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10,
1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and
Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence
since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930 and was
admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948.

Gulf Poweris a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally
organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to
do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia
on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under
the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972,
was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by
the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and
properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in
Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an
operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages
generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern
Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to
do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of
Mississippi on January 30, 2001, and in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007.

Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock or membership interests of
SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, Southern Renewable Energy, and
other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless
communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets these services
to the public and also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in
the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Alabama Power’s and Georgia
Power’s nuclear plants and is currently developing new nuclear generation at Plant Vogtle. SCS is
the system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern
Company’s investments in leveraged leases. Southern Renewable Energy was formed in January 2010 to
acquire, own, and construct renewable generation assets.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an
operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of
1,019,680 kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power
and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO’s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts
as SEGCO’s agent in the operation of SEGCO’s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its
units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the
Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power

I-1




transmission line system.

Southern Company’s segment information is included in Note 12 to the financial statements of
Southern Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants’ Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company’s website,
free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company’s internet address is www.southerncompany.com.



The Southern Company System

Traditional Operating Companies

The traditional operating companies own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See
PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies’
generating facilities. Each company’s transmission facilities are connected to the respective
company’s own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants owned by
Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional
operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia’s integrated transmission
system, see “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power” herein.

Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy
transactions that may be entered into from time to time for reasons related to reliability or
economics. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary
reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power
Coordinating Group, and TVA and with Progress Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy, South Carolina
Electric & Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the
establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of
generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency
operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional
operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including some of those
referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power
supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National
Electric Reliability Council.

The utility assets of the traditional operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern Power are operated as a single
integrated electric system, or power pool, pursuant to the IIC. Activities under the IIC are
administered by SCS, which acts as agent for the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power. The fundamental purpose of the power pool is to provide for the coordinated operation of the
electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible economies consistent with the
highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service requirements and other operating
limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through the application of centralized
economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional operating company and Southern Power retains
its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own customers and delivers any excess
energy to the power pool for use in serving customers of other traditional operating companies or
Southern Power or for sale by the power pool to third parties. The IIC provides for the recovery
of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations thereunder, as well as the
proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from power pool transactions with third
parties.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and
other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon
request, the following services: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless
communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool
transactions. Southern Power and SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional
operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power
which is subject to FERC regulations, in compliance with such regulations.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley
and Plants

I-2




Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. In addition, Georgia Power has a contract with Southern Nuclear to
develop, construct, license, and operate additional generating units at Plant Vogtle. See
“Regulation – Nuclear Regulation” herein for additional information.

Southern Power

Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from
the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and sells
electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. Southern Power’s business activities
are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional operating companies but are
subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from
significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by making such risks
the responsibility of the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power’s future earnings
will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market, federal regulation, and the efficient
operation of its wholesale generating assets. For additional information on Southern Power’s
business activities, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – “Business Activities” of
Southern Power in Item 7 herein.

In June 2008, Southern Power completed construction on Plant Franklin Unit 3 which added 659
megawatts to the Southern Company system generating capacity. In December 2008, Southern Power
announced plans to construct a 720 megawatt electric generating plant in North Carolina. This new
plant is expected to go into commercial operation in 2012.

On October 8, 2009, Southern Power acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of
Nacogdoches Power LLC from American Renewables LLC, the original developer of the project.
Nacogdoches Power LLC is constructing a biomass generating plant in Sacul, Texas with an estimated
capacity of 100 megawatts. The generating plant will be fueled from wood waste. Construction
began in late 2009 and the plant is expected to begin commercial operation in 2012. The total
estimated cost of the project is expected to be between $475 million and $500 million. The output
of the plant is contracted under a PPA with Austin Energy that begins in 2012 and expires in 2032.

On December 17, 2009, Southern Power acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of West
Georgia Generating Company, LLC (West Georgia) from Broadway Gen Funding, LLC, an affiliate of LS
Power. West Georgia was merged into Southern Power as of the acquisition date and Southern Power
now owns a dual-fueled generating plant near Thomaston, Georgia with nameplate capacity of
approximately 669 megawatts. The plant consists of four combustion turbine natural gas generating
units with oil back-up. The output from two units is contracted under PPAs with MEAG Power and
the Georgia Energy Cooperative (GEC). The MEAG Power PPA began in 2009 and expires in 2029. The
GEC PPA begins in 2010 and expires in 2030.

As of December 31, 2009, Southern Power had 7,880 megawatts of nameplate capacity in commercial
operation.

Other Businesses

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company’s investments in
leveraged leases.

SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC
Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service,
text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately
127,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic
solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast under the name Southern Telecom.

On
January 25, 2010, Southern Renewable Energy was formed to acquire, own, and construct renewable
generation assets.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding
those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of
risk.

I-3






Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs
to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated
construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2010 through 2012, see Note 7 to the
financial statements of Southern Company and each traditional operating company under “Construction
Program” and Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Power under “Expansion Program” in Item
8 herein. Estimated construction costs in 2010 are expected to be apportioned approximately as
follows: (in millions)

SouthernCompanyAlabamaGeorgiaGulfMississippiSouthernSystem*PowerPowerPowerPowerPowerNew generation$2,188$—$1,254$3$341$590Environmental54513625911311—Other generating
facilities,
including
associated plant
substations528228154543937New business4351692182523—Transmission4611192654532—Distribution2901371102518—Nuclear fuel258111147———General plant231858968—$4,936$985$2,496$271$472$627



*These amounts include the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in the
table above) as well as the amounts for the other subsidiaries. See “Other Businesses” herein for
additional information.

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction
costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and
regulations; changes in nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules
and regulations; PSC approvals; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; project scope and design changes; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no
assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

Under Georgia law, Georgia Power is required to file an IRP for approval by the Georgia PSC.
Through the IRP process, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the construction of new power plants and
new PPAs. See “Rate Matters – Integrated Resource Planning” herein for additional information.

See “Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations” herein for additional information with
respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned
Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power’s, Georgia
Power’s, and Southern Power’s joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities
with certain non-affiliated utilities.



Financing Programs

See each of the registrant’s MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8
herein for information concerning financing programs.



Fuel Supply

The traditional operating companies’ and SEGCO’s supply of electricity is derived
predominantly from coal. Southern Power’s supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural
gas. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – “Fuel and Purchased Power
Expenses” of Southern Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for
information regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net
kilowatt-hour generated for the years 2007 through 2009.

I-4




The traditional operating companies have agreements in place from which they expect to receive
approximately 98% of their coal burn requirements in 2010. These agreements have terms ranging
between one and eight years. In 2009, the weighted average sulfur content of all coal burned by
the traditional operating companies was 74% sulfur. This sulfur level, along with banked and
purchased sulfur dioxide allowances, allowed the traditional operating companies to remain within
limits set by the Phase II acid rain requirements of the Clean Air Act. In 2009, the Southern
Company system purchased approximately $18.3 million of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions
allowances to be used in current and future periods. As additional environmental regulations are
proposed that impact the utilization of coal, the traditional operating companies’ fuel mix will be
monitored to ensure that the traditional operating companies remain in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations. Additionally, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies will
continue to evaluate the need to purchase additional emissions allowances and the timing of capital
expenditures for emissions control equipment. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Environmental Matters” of Southern Company and each traditional operating
company in Item 7 herein for information on the Clean Air Act and global climate issues.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, has agreements in
place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2010, SCS has
contracted for 207.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply under agreements with remaining terms
up to 11 years. In addition to gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm gas
transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural
gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company
system’s natural gas generating units.

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel
adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See “Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost
Recovery Plans” herein for additional information. Southern Power’s PPAs generally provide that
the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel
needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts
have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes
that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment
of normal operations of the Southern Company system’s nuclear generating units.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that
provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of
spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial
statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under “Nuclear Fuel Disposal
Costs” in Item 8 herein for additional information.



Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises
most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and
southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems
which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the
traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles
and an estimated population of approximately 13 million. Southern Power sells electricity at
market-based prices in the wholesale market to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and
electric cooperatives.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of
electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in over 650
communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well
as in rural areas, and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of
which are served indirectly through sales to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative
associations. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal
from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers
in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

I-5




Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail in over 600
communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as
in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, Hampton, and various
electric membership corporations.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase
of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in 71
communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas,
and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and a municipality.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such electricity within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at
retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and
Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric
distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to kilowatt-hour sales by customer classification for the traditional
operating companies, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each
traditional operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of
revenues for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is
made to Item 7 herein.

The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to
provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric
cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies
provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power
to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and
northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 1,776 megawatts of
nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power’s Plant Miller
Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth’s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts
requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such
energy is available.

Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving
interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from
PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf
Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The
rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned
Facilities” in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power’s joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a
portion of Plant Miller.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power’s service
area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal
power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power’s service area
and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting
cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of
protective capacity by Mississippi Power to SMEPA.

There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in
which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive
their requirements through MEAG Power, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975.
MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are
acquired and jointly-owned with Georgia Power, power purchased from Georgia Power, and purchases
from other resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo

I-6




scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from
self-owned generation facilities, some of which are acquired and jointly-owned with Georgia Power,
and through purchases from Georgia Power and Southern Power through a service agreement. In
addition, Georgia Power serves the full requirements of Hampton’s electric distribution system
under a market-based contract. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for
additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission
Corporation (formerly OPC’s transmission division), MEAG Power, and Dalton providing for the
establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties.
The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in
proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned
Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern
Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other investor-owned
utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Power Sales Agreements” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein
for additional information concerning Southern Power’s PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA
providing for the use of the traditional operating companies’ facilities at government expense to
deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in
the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated
to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the
Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within
existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of
such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of
supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with
such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a
supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating
outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 kilowatts may exercise
a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its
choice. See “Competition” herein for additional information.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued “Grandfather Certificates” of public
convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating
in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them
to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The
six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of
approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a “Grandfather Certificate,” the utility
holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles;
other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas
included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be
served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing
municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into
such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.



Competition

The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of
regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Act of
1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility’s transmission network in order to sell electricity to
other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by
various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and
reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory,
political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition

I-7




in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees as the result of self-generation
(as described below) by customers and other factors. See also “Territory Served by the Traditional
Operating Companies and Southern Power” herein for additional information concerning suppliers of
electricity operating within or near the areas served at retail by the traditional operating
companies.

Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales
primarily in the Southeastern United States wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven
by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power’s
success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and
availability of Southern Power’s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price,
and Southern Power’s ability to contain costs.

Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with 11 industrial customers. Under
the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess generation of such companies. During
2009, Alabama Power purchased approximately 232 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a
cost of $16.5 million.

Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with nine small power producers whereby Georgia
Power purchases their excess generation. During 2009, Georgia Power purchased 14.7 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $0.6 million. Georgia Power has PPAs for
electricity with two cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to
meet minimum capacity output. During 2009, Georgia Power purchased
42.3 million kilowatt-hours at a cost of $19.7 million from these facilities.

Also during 2009, Georgia Power purchased energy from eight customer-owned generating facilities.
Seven of the eight customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These seven customers make no
capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract
with the remaining customer for eight megawatts of dispatchable capacity and energy. During 2009,
Georgia Power purchased a total of 56.3 million kilowatt-hours from the eight customers at a cost
of approximately $1.9 million.

Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying
facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases “as available” energy from customer-owned
generation. During 2009, Gulf Power purchased 76 million kilowatt-hours from such companies for
approximately $4.3 million.

Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial
customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation.
During 2009, Mississippi Power did not purchase any excess generation from this customer.



Seasonality

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather.
At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the
summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources
at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall
operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in
the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather
conditions are milder.



Regulation

State Commissions

The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs.
The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the
respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail
service territories. See “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern
Power” and “Rate Matters” herein for additional information.

I-8




Federal Power Act

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are
all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are
subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power
Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an “at cost standard” for services
rendered by system service companies such as SCS. The FERC is also authorized to establish
regional reliability organizations which are authorized to enforce reliability standards, to
address impediments to the construction of transmission, and to prohibit manipulative energy
trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the
earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric
developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing
Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 kilowatts and
18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,087,296
kilowatts.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure
pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities”
in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2023-2034 in the
case of Alabama Power’s projects and in the period 2014-2039 in the case of Georgia Power’s
projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government, by act of Congress, may
take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a
new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be
compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to
reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the
property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance
therefrom of the property. If the FERC does not act on the new license application prior to the
expiration of the existing license, the FERC is required to issue annual licenses, under the same
terms and conditions of the existing license, until a new license is issued.

Nuclear Regulation

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC
is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting
research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act
of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear
Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the

I-9




National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These
responsibilities also include protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment,
protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national
security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws.

In January 2002, the NRC granted Georgia Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units
at Plant Hatch which permits the operation of units 1 and 2 until 2034 and 2038, respectively. In
May 2005, the NRC granted Alabama Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units at Plant
Farley which permits operation of units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively. On June 3,
2009, the NRC approved 20-year extensions of the licenses for the operation of Plant Vogtle Units 1
and 2 to 2047 and 2049, respectively.

On August 26, 2009, the NRC issued an Early Site Permit and Limited Work Authorization to Southern
Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, OPC, MEAG Power, and Dalton (collectively, Owners), related to
two additional nuclear units on the site of Plant Vogtle (Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4). In March
2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a combined construction and operating
license for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which, if licensed by the NRC, are scheduled to be placed
in service in 2016 and 2017, respectively. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear
Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction — Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for additional
information.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power
in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Southern Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal
environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media,
including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected
to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or market-based rates for Southern Power. There is no assurance, however, that all
such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to
be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power,
and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and
regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, Southern Power, or SEGCO, including laws and regulations designed to address
global climate change, air quality, water quality, management of waste materials and coal
combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental, public health, and welfare
concerns. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental
Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for
additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including, but not
limited to, the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean
Air Act, possible additional and/or revised regulations related to air and water quality, possible
climate change legislation and regulation, and possible regulation of coal combustion byproducts.
Also see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters”
of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for information about the environmental issues and possible
climate change legislation and regulation.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO are unable to
predict at this time what additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the
implementation of existing or future requirements pertaining to climate change, air quality, water
quality, and management of waste materials and coal combustion byproducts, including coal ash, but
such steps could adversely affect system operations and result in substantial additional costs.

The outcome of the matters mentioned above under “Regulation” cannot now be determined, except that
these developments may affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and may result in delays in
obtaining appropriate licenses for generating facilities, increased construction and operating
costs, or reduced generation, the nature and extent of which, while not determinable at this time,
could be substantial.

I-10






Rate Matters

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class
of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for residential electric service are
generally of the block type based upon kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.
Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are
presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to
determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers’ rates are generally based upon
usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage.
Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their
respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms
and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions at
the traditional operating companies. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Gulf Power’s and Mississippi Power’s fuel cost
recovery provisions are adjusted annually to reflect increases or decreases in such costs. Georgia
Power filed for an adjustment to its fuel cost recovery rate on December 15, 2009. If approved by
the Georgia PSC, the adjustment would be effective on April 1, 2010. Alabama Power’s fuel clause
is adjusted as required. Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable costs and
amounts actually recovered in current rates.

Approved environmental compliance and storm damage costs are recovered at Alabama Power and
Mississippi Power through cost recovery provisions approved by their respective state PSCs. Within
limits approved by their respective PSCs, these rates are adjusted to reflect increases or
decreases in such costs as required.

Georgia Power’s environmental compliance costs are recovered in base rates. Under the 2007 retail
rate plan, an environmental compliance cost recovery tariff was implemented effective January 1,
2008 to allow recovery of environmental costs mandated by state and federal regulation. See Note
3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power
— Retail Rate Plans” and Georgia Power under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Rate Plans” in Item 8
herein for additional information.

See “Integrated Resource Planning” herein for a discussion of Georgia PSC certification of new
demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power. In addition, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7
herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction”
and Georgia Power under “Construction — Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the Georgia
Nuclear Financing Act and the Georgia PSC certification of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which allow
Georgia Power to recover financing costs for construction of the new nuclear units during the
construction period beginning in 2011.

Alabama Power recovers the cost of certificated new plant and purchased power capacity through cost
recovery provisions which are approved annually. Gulf Power files a rate clause request annually
with the Florida PSC to recover costs associated with purchased power capacity, energy
conservation, and environmental compliance. Revenues are adjusted for differences between
recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “PSC Matters” of Southern
Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters” and Note 3 to the
financial statements of each of the traditional operating companies under “Retail Regulatory
Matters” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters. Also, see Note 1 to the financial
statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for
a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage costs, and environmental compliance costs
through rates.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power are authorized by the FERC to sell power to
non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC
approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

I-11




Integrated Resource Planning

Georgia Power

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to
meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and
supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or
supply-side resources for Georgia Power to get cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual
or certified construction costs and purchased power costs will be recoverable through rates.

On August 31, 2009, Georgia Power filed with the Georgia PSC its first semi-annual construction
monitoring report for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 for the period ended June 30, 2009, which did not
include any proposed change to the estimated construction cost as certified by the Georgia PSC in
March 2009. On February 25, 2010, the Georgia PSC approved the expenditures made by Georgia Power
pursuant to the certification through June 30, 2009. The Georgia PSC also ordered that in its
future semi-annual construction monitoring reports, Georgia Power will report against a total
certified cost of approximately $6.1 billion, which is the effective certified amount after giving
effect to the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act. Georgia Power will continue to file
construction monitoring reports by February 28 and August 31 of each year during the construction
period.

In connection with its approval of the updated IRP on March 17, 2009, the Georgia PSC also approved
Georgia Power’s plan for the installation of emissions controls at its Plant Branch Units 1 — 4 and
Plant Yates Units 6 and 7. However, Georgia Power has suspended further engineering and
construction activity on the emissions control projects at Plant Branch Units 1 and 2 and Plant
Yates Units 6 and 7 until more information is available from the rulemaking and legislative
process, thereby mitigating the risk related to significant capital expenditures associated with
those projects. Georgia Power continues to review the economic feasibility of installing controls
at Plant Branch Units 3 and 4. Georgia Power intends to continue to operate these units in the
near term and reevaluate the economics of installing emissions controls on these units as more
information becomes available.

Georgia Power plans to convert the 155-megawatt coal-fired Plant Mitchell Unit 3 to a renewable
biomass facility fueled primarily with wood chips. Georgia Power filed a request for approval of
the certification of the Plant Mitchell biomass conversion with the Georgia PSC in August 2008. On
March 17, 2009, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power’s request for certification of the Plant
Mitchell biomass conversion. Georgia Power filed an air permit application for the conversion with
the Georgia Environmental Protection Division in December 2008. Georgia Power expects to be granted
an air permit in 15 to 18 months from the filing date. With the uncertainty of how future EPA
regulations might affect allowable industrial boiler emissions, Georgia Power has decided to delay
the conversion of Plant Mitchell Unit 3 to biomass until the EPA rules are better defined, which is
expected in April 2010. Georgia Power had originally planned to begin retrofit construction at
Plant Mitchell in April 2011 with the unit becoming operational in June 2012. A new project
schedule has yet to be determined.

I-12




risk of retirement, Georgia Power has restarted its 2015 RFP for 1,000 megawatts of capacity and
energy. However, Georgia Power’s capacity needs could change significantly depending on the final
requirements resulting from these environmental regulations.

The Georgia PSC certified the construction of Plant McDonough Units 4, 5, and 6 (natural gas-fired
units) and the retirement of Plant McDonough Units 1 and 2 (coal-fired units) in 2007. On August
10, 2009, Georgia Power filed its quarterly construction monitoring report for Plant McDonough
Units 4, 5, and 6 for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. On September 30, 2009, Georgia Power
amended the report. As amended, the report includes a request for an increase in the certified
costs to construct Plant McDonough. The Georgia PSC held a hearing in December 2009 and is
scheduled to render its decision on March 16, 2010.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for
additional information regarding the proposed Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.

Gulf Power

Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan was classified by the Florida PSC as “suitable” in
December 2009. Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan and environmental compliance plan
identify potential environmental regulations relating to maximum achievable control technology for
hazardous air pollutants and potential legislation or regulation that would impose mandatory
restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air
Quality,” “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Coal Combustion
Byproducts,” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate Issues” of Gulf Power in Item 7 herein.
The site plan and environmental compliance plan include preliminary retirement studies under a
variety of potential scenarios for units at each of Gulf Power’s coal-fired generating plants.
These studies indicate that, depending on the final requirements in these anticipated EPA
regulations and any legislation or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as
estimates of long-term fuel prices, Gulf Power may conclude that it is more economical to retire
certain of its coal-fired generating units prior to 2020 and to replace such units with new or
purchased capacity.

Also in December 2009, the Florida PSC adopted new numerical conservation goals for Gulf Power
along with other electric utilities in the state. The Florida PSC adopted more aggressive goals
due in part to the consideration of possible greenhouse gas emissions costs incurred in connection
with possible climate change legislation and a change in the manner in which the Florida PSC
considers the effect of so-called “free-riders” on the level of

I-13




conservation reasonably achievable through utility programs. Gulf Power’s plans and programs to
meet the new goals are scheduled to be submitted to the Florida PSC for review by the end of the
first quarter 2010. The costs of implementing Gulf Power’s conservation plans and programs are
recovered through specific conservation recovery rates set annually by the Florida PSC.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Power

On December 7, 2009, Mississippi Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Mississippi PSC. The filing was
made in connection with the Mississippi PSC certification proceedings relating to the proposed
Kemper County IGCC project. In the 2010 IRP, Mississippi Power projected that it will have a need
for new capacity in the 2013 to 2015 timeframe. The 2010 IRP indicated a need range of
approximately 200 megawatts to 300 megawatts in 2014, which reflects growth in load and the
anticipated retirement of older gas steam units Plant Eaton Units 1 through 3 and Plant Watson
Units 1 through 3 in 2012 and 2013, respectively. In addition, due to potential retirements of
existing coal units, the Mississippi PSC found a need in 2015 that ranges from 304 megawatts to
1,276 megawatts.

The range of needs for 2015 is based on potential environmental regulations relating to maximum
achievable control technology for hazardous air pollutants, as well as potential legislation or
regulations that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters —
Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air Quality” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate
Issues” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein. Depending on the final requirements in the
anticipated EPA regulations and any legislation or regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions,
as well as estimates of long-term fuel prices, Mississippi Power may conclude that it is more
economical to discontinue burning coal at certain coal-fired generating units than to install the
required controls.

Mississippi Power’s 2010 IRP indicated that Mississippi Power plans to construct the Kemper County
IGCC to meet its identified needs, to add environmental controls at Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, to
defer environmental controls at Plant Watson Units 4 and 5, and to continue operation of the
combined cycle Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation

In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the
Governor in May 2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC’s authority to facilitate development and
construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload
Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism
that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the
prudently incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing
a base load electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs
would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act
also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the
cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the
event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC,
the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest determination as to
whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in
connection with such cancelled generating plant. The effect of this legislation on Southern
Company and Mississippi Power cannot now be determined.

On January 16, 2009, Mississippi Power filed for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
with the Mississippi PSC to allow construction of a new electric generating plant located in Kemper
County, Mississippi. This certificate, if approved by the Mississippi PSC, would authorize
Mississippi Power to acquire, construct, and operate the Kemper IGCC and related facilities. The
Kemper IGCC, subject to federal and state reviews and certain regulatory approvals, is expected to
begin commercial operation in May 2014. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern
Company and Mississippi Power in Item 8 herein for additional information.

I-14






Employee Relations

The Southern Company system had a total of 26,112 employees on its payroll at December 31,
2009.

Employees at December 31, 2009Alabama Power6,842Georgia Power8,599Gulf Power1,365Mississippi Power1,285SCS4,184Southern Holdings*—Southern Nuclear3,485Southern Power**—Other352Total26,112



*Southern Holdings has agreements with SCS whereby all employee services are rendered at cost.**Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional
operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC
regulations.

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW
generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and
arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and
construction employees.

On August 15, 2009, a five-year labor agreement between Alabama Power and nine local unions with
the IBEW expired. Prior to the expiration of this agreement, Alabama Power and the IBEW entered
into a new five-year labor agreement with a ratification date of May 29, 2009. Parts of this new
agreement took effect on August 15, 2009, when the original agreement expired, and the remainder
took effect on January 1, 2010. The new agreement expires on August 15, 2014.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in
effect through June 30, 2011. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations
may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

The agreement between Gulf Power and the IBEW covering wages and working conditions was scheduled
to expire on October 15, 2009. The agreement has not been terminated by either party and remains
in effect through October 14, 2010. Negotiations for a new agreement began in September 2009 and
are on-going.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in
effect until August 16, 2010. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations
may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Southern Nuclear and the IBEW ratified a labor agreement for certain employees at Plants Hatch and
Vogtle on May 21, 2009. The agreement is effective through June 30, 2011. A five-year agreement
between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain employees at Plant Farley was ratified
on July 8, 2009. The agreement became effective on August 15, 2009 and will remain in effect
through August 15, 2014.

The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject
to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon
union and company actions.

I-15






