
10-K405
FORM 10-K



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                -----------------

                                    FORM 10-K

|X|  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

                                       OR

|_|  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the transition period from ______ to ______

                                ----------------

                          Commission file number 1-9924

                                ----------------

                              TRAVELERS GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                                    52-1568099
(State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

                 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
                                 (212) 816-8000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                                ----------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

      Title of each class            Name of each exchange on which registered 
      -------------------            ----------------------------------------- 

    Common Stock, par value                New York Stock Exchange and
      $ .01 per share                         Pacific Stock Exchange

     Depositary Shares, each                  New York Stock Exchange
  representing 1/10 of a share of
8.125% Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
           Series A

    Depositary Shares, each                   New York Stock Exchange
 representing 1/2 of a share of
 9.25% Preferred Stock, Series D

7 3/4% Notes Due June 15, 1999                New York Stock Exchange

1998 Warrants to Purchase Common Stock        New York Stock Exchange

 8% Trust Preferred Securities of             New York Stock Exchange
Subsidiary Trust (and registrant's 
  guaranty with respect thereto)

7 3/4% Trust Preferred Securities of          New York Stock Exchange
 Subsidiary Trust (and registrant's 
  guaranty with respect thereto)

7 5/8% Trust Preferred Securities of          New York Stock Exchange
 Subsidiary Trust (and registrant's 
   guaranty with respect thereto)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |X|   No |_|

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of March 5, 1997 was approximately $34.2 billion.

As of March 5, 1997, 641,379,081 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 are incorporated by reference into Part II
of this Form 10-K.

Certain portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held on April 23, 1997 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.


                              TRAVELERS GROUP INC.

                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                     For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1996

                         ------------------------------

                                
Form 10-K
Item Number                                                                 Page
- -----------                                                                 ----
    Part I
    ------

1.  Business...................................................................1
2   Properties................................................................82
3.  Legal Proceedings.........................................................83
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.......................86

    Part II
    -------

5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
      Related Stockholder Matters.............................................86
6.  Selected Financial Data...................................................87
7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations.....................................87
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data...............................87
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
      Accounting and Financial Disclosure.....................................87

    Part III
    --------

10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant........................87
11. Executive Compensation....................................................87
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
      and Management..........................................................88
13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions............................88

    Part IV
    -------

14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
      on Form 8-K.............................................................88
    Exhibit Index.............................................................89
    Signatures ...............................................................94
    Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules.................F-1


                                     PART I
                                     ------

Item 1. BUSINESS.

                                   THE COMPANY

          Travelers Group Inc. (the "Company") is a financial services holding
company engaged, through its subsidiaries, principally in four business
segments: (i) Investment Services; (ii) Consumer Finance Services; (iii)
Property & Casualty Insurance Services; and (iv) Life Insurance Services.

          On April 2, 1996, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (formerly
Travelers/Aetna Property Casualty Corp.) ("TAP"), an indirect majority-owned
subsidiary of the Company that was formed in January 1996 to hold the property
and casualty insurance subsidiaries (collectively, "Travelers P&C") of The
Travelers Insurance Group Inc. ("TIGI"), purchased from Aetna Services Inc.
(formerly Aetna Life and Casualty Company) ("Aetna") all of the outstanding
capital stock of The Aetna Casualty and Surety Company ("Aetna Casualty") and
The Standard Fire Insurance Company ("Standard Fire"), Aetna's property and
casualty insurance subsidiaries (collectively, "Aetna P&C"), for approximately
$4.16 billion in cash. The acquisition of Aetna P&C (the "Acquisition") was
treated as a purchase and, accordingly, the Company's consolidated financial
statements include the results of Aetna P&C's operations only from the date of
the Acquisition. As part of the financing of the Acquisition, TAP sold
approximately 33 million shares of its Class A Common Stock (representing
approximately 9% of its outstanding common stock at that time) to four private
investors, including Aetna. TIGI acquired approximately 328 million shares of
TAP's Class B Common Stock in exchange for its contribution of the outstanding
capital stock of The Travelers Indemnity Company ("Travelers Indemnity") and a
capital contribution of approximately $1.14 billion. In April 1996, TAP sold in
a public offering approximately 39 million shares of its Class A Common Stock
(representing approximately 9.75% of its outstanding common stock at that time).
The Company indirectly owns approximately 82% of TAP's outstanding common stock.
For additional information about the Acquisition, the public offering and other
related transactions, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          During 1996, the Company continued and expanded the marketing of its
financial products through the various distribution channels offered by its
subsidiaries, primarily the independent agents of Primerica Financial Services
(the "PFS sales force") and the Financial Consultants of Smith Barney Inc. The
PFS sales force, which primarily sells life insurance and mutual funds, now also
sells personal lines property-casualty insurance offered by Travelers Indemnity,
a subsidiary of TAP. Through this program, over 6,300 members of the PFS sales
force are now licensed to sell automobile and homeowners insurance products
under the Secure-SM- name. The program, which began in 1994 and continues to
experience growth in applications and policies, is now available in 37 states.
See "Property & Casualty Insurance



Services -- Personal Lines." The PFS sales force has become the largest
distributor of The Concert Series-SM-, a group of mutual funds offered by Smith
Barney, with 1996 sales of approximately $458 million. See "Life Insurance
Services -- Primerica Financial Services." The $.M.A.R.T.-SM- and $.A.F.E.-SM-
loan programs, under which members of the PFS sales force solicit applications
for loans underwritten by Commercial Credit Company ("CCC"), generated net
receivables of over $1.5 billion at December 31, 1996. See "Consumer Finance
Services -- Consumer Finance." Qualified Smith Barney Financial Consultants
offer individual products, primarily variable annuities, of Travelers Life and
Annuity. These products include, among others, Vintage Life-R- and Vintage
Annuity-SM-, single premium variable universal life products, and Travelers
Target Maturity-R-, a market value adjusted fixed annuity. The Company has also
created a subsidiary to facilitate the cross-marketing of the Company's products
among its subsidiaries and to offer a bundled group of those products for sale
to employees of other companies through a directed sales effort.

          The periodic reports of CCC, Smith Barney Holdings Inc. ("SB
Holdings"), TAP, The Travelers Insurance Company and The Travelers Life and
Annuity Company, subsidiaries of the Company that make filings pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), provide
additional business and financial information concerning those companies and
their consolidated subsidiaries.

          The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 388
Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013; telephone number 212-816-8000.

          This discussion of the Company's business is organized as follows: (i)
a description of each of the Company's four business segments; (ii) a
description of the Corporate and Other Operations segment; and (iii) certain
other information. A glossary of insurance terms is included beginning on page
70.

                               INVESTMENT SERVICES

          The Company's Investment Services segment includes the operations of
SB Holdings and its subsidiaries. As used herein, unless the context otherwise
requires, "Smith Barney" refers to SB Holdings and its consolidated
subsidiaries.

Smith Barney

          SB Holdings provides investment banking, asset management, brokerage
and other financial services through its subsidiaries. Its principal operating
subsidiary is Smith Barney Inc. ("SBI"), an investment banking, securities
trading and brokerage firm that traces its origins back to 1873.

          Smith Barney operates through approximately 450 offices throughout the
United States, and 17 offices in 15 foreign countries. With approximately 10,400
Financial



Consultants, the Company believes that Smith Barney is currently the second
largest domestic brokerage firm in the United States.

     Investment Banking and Securities Brokerage

          Smith Barney is an investment banking and securities trading and
brokerage firm serving United States and foreign corporations, governments and
institutional and individual investors. Its business includes securities,
options and commodities brokerage for domestic and international institutional
and individual clients; underwriting and distribution of securities; arranging
for the private placement of securities; assisting in mergers and acquisitions
and providing other financial advisory services; market making and trading in
corporate debt and equity, United States government and agency, mortgage-related
and municipal securities and foreign exchange, futures and forward contracts;
customer financing activities; securities lending activities; investment
management and advisory services; securities research; and other related
activities.

          Smith Barney's investment banking services include the underwriting of
debt and equity issues for United States and foreign corporations and for state,
local and other governmental and government-sponsored authorities. Smith Barney
frequently acts as managing underwriter in corporate and public securities
offerings. Smith Barney also acts as a private placement agent for various
clients, and as such helps to place securities for clients with large
institutions and other qualified investors. Smith Barney also provides financial
advice to investment banking clients on a wide variety of transactions including
mergers and acquisitions, exchanges of securities and corporate restructurings.

          Smith Barney executes securities brokerage transactions on all major
United States securities exchanges and distributes a wide variety of financial
products. It makes inter-dealer markets and trades as principal in corporate
debt and equity securities, primarily of United States corporate issuers, United
States and foreign government, and agency securities, mortgage-related
securities, whole loans, municipal and other tax-exempt securities, commercial
paper and other money market instruments as well as emerging market debt
securities. The firm carries inventories of securities to facilitate sales to
customers and other dealers and with a view to realizing trading gains. SBI is
one of the leading dealers in municipal securities and is a "Primary Dealer" in
United States government securities, as designated by the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York. Its daily trading inventory positions in United States government
and agency securities are financed largely through the use of repurchase
agreements pursuant to which Smith Barney sells the securities and
simultaneously agrees to repurchase them at a future date. Smith Barney also
acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds
utilizing repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. Smith Barney uses
derivative financial instruments to facilitate customer transactions and to
manage exposure to interest rate, currency and market risk. In addition, for its
own account Smith Barney engages in a limited manner in certain arbitrage
activities, which primarily seek to benefit from temporary price discrepancies
that occur with respect to 



related securities or to the same security on different markets. Smith Barney
also engages in the borrowing and lending of securities. The Smith Barney
network of Financial Consultants also sells Travelers Life and Annuity
individual products, primarily variable annuities. See "Life Insurance Services
- -- Travelers Life and Annuity."

          Smith Barney executes transactions in large blocks of exchange-listed
stocks, usually with institutional investors, and often acts as principal to
facilitate these transactions. It makes markets, buying and selling as
principal, in common stocks, convertible preferred stocks, warrants and other
securities traded on the NASDAQ system or otherwise in the over-the-counter
market. Smith Barney also maintains trading positions in equity options,
convertible securities, debt options, foreign exchange and commodities
instruments. It executes significant client transactions in both listed and
unlisted options and in foreign exchange, and often acts as principal to
facilitate these transactions. Smith Barney also sells various types of
structured securities on both a principal and an agency basis. The firm's
securities trading and investment activities involve significant risk in that
the values of positions carried in its trading and investment accounts are
subject to market fluctuations. Smith Barney engages in a variety of financial
techniques designed to manage this risk.

     Customer Financing

          Customers' securities transactions are executed on either a cash or
margin basis. Federal regulations prescribe the minimum original margin that
must be deposited by securities purchasers, and exchange regulations prescribe
the minimum margins that must be maintained by customers. Smith Barney imposes
margin maintenance requirements that are equal to or exceed those required by
exchange regulations. Such requirements are intended to reduce the risk assumed
by Smith Barney that a market decline will reduce the value of a customer's
collateral below the amount of the customer's indebtedness before the collateral
can be sold. Substantially all transactions in commodities futures contracts are
on margin subject to individual exchange regulations. Margin, in the case of
commodities futures contracts, is primarily funded in the form of cash or United
States Treasury securities. Commodities transactions involve substantial risk,
principally because of low margin requirements permitted by the exchanges.

          Income earned on financing customers' securities transactions provides
Smith Barney with an additional source of income. Credit losses may arise as a
result of this financing activity; however, to date, such losses have not been
material.



     Asset Management

          Smith Barney provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset
management and consulting services to a wide array of mutual funds and
institutional and individual investors, with respect to domestic and foreign
equity and debt securities, municipal bonds, money market instruments, and
related options and futures contracts. Smith Barney typically receives ongoing
fees from its asset management and consulting clients, generally stated as a
percentage of the client's assets with respect to which Smith Barney's services
are rendered. At December 31, 1996, such client assets in the aggregate exceeded
$111.8 billion, as compared to approximately $96.2 billion at December 31, 1995
and approximately $78.0 billion at December 31, 1994.

          At December 31, 1996, Smith Barney sponsored 59 mutual funds (open-end
investment companies) with aggregate assets of approximately $69.7 billion
distributed through its sales force of Financial Consultants. Of these, ten are
taxable and tax-exempt money market funds, with assets of approximately $41.2
billion. At December 31, 1995, aggregate assets in Company-sponsored mutual
funds were approximately $61.6 billion, of which approximately $35.6 billion
related to money market funds, compared to aggregate assets in such funds at
December 31, 1994 of approximately $50.6 billion, $28.6 billion of which related
to money market funds. A wholly owned subsidiary of SB Holdings serves as
investment manager to these mutual funds, as well as to twelve closed-end
investment companies, the shares of which are listed for trading on one or more
securities exchanges. At December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995, assets of
these closed-end funds aggregated approximately $2.8 billion, as compared to
approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 1994. The open-end and closed-end
funds sponsored and managed by Smith Barney have various investment objectives,
including growth, growth and income, taxable income and tax-exempt income. In
addition, at December 31, 1996, Smith Barney managed 25 mutual fund portfolios
serving as funding vehicles for variable annuity contracts, with aggregate
assets of approximately $2.3 billion. At December 31, 1995 and December 31,
1994, aggregate assets in the mutual fund portfolios managed by the Company were
approximately $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. This includes six
mutual fund portfolios that are investment options for the Travelers Universal
variable annuity contracts. Smith Barney also sponsors and manages nine mutual
funds domiciled outside the U.S. which are offered to Smith Barney's
non-resident alien client base. At December 31, 1996, these off-shore funds had
aggregate assets of approximately $1.2 billion, as compared to approximately
$980 million at December 31, 1995 and approximately $780 million at December 31,
1994.

          In 1996, Smith Barney launched The Concert Series-SM-, a group of
mutual funds that invests in various Smith Barney mutual funds instead of
directly in stocks, bonds or other securities. The Concert Series-SM- simplifies
the process of investing and enables investors to achieve a broad
diversification of their investments. The Concert Series-SM- is sold through
Smith Barney Financial Consultants and the PFS sales force.



          In addition to these proprietary funds, Smith Barney also sells
through its Financial Consultants a large number of mutual funds sponsored and
managed by unaffiliated entities. Smith Barney receives commissions and other
sales and service revenues from this activity.

          Smith Barney also sponsors and oversees the portfolios of a large
number of unit investment trusts, which are unmanaged investment companies, the
portfolios of which are generally static. Such unit investment trusts may hold
domestic and foreign equity and debt securities, including municipal bonds.
Certain trusts are sponsored and overseen solely by Smith Barney; other trusts
are jointly sponsored through a syndicate of major broker-dealers of which Smith
Barney is a member. At December 31, 1996, outstanding unit trust assets held by
Smith Barney clients exceeded $8.6 billion, as compared to approximately $7.2
billion at December 31, 1995 and approximately $6.4 billion at December 31,
1994.

          Smith Barney's asset management units provide separate account
discretionary investment management services to a wide variety of individual and
institutional clients, including private and public retirement plans,
endowments, municipalities and other institutions. Client relationships may be
introduced through Smith Barney's network of Financial Consultants or
independent from such network (e.g., through traditional pension plan
consultants unaffiliated with the Company). Assets under Smith Barney's
management exceeded $24.0 billion at December 31, 1996, as compared to
approximately $20.4 billion at December 31, 1995 and approximately $15.7 billion
at December 31, 1994.

            Smith Barney's Consulting Group ("CG") provides a variety of
investment management and consulting services to institutional and individual
clients. CG sponsors a number of different "wrap fee" programs, in which CG and
Smith Barney typically provide: an analysis of the client's financial situation,
investment needs and risk tolerance; a recommendation that the client retain one
or more investment management firms (which may be affiliated or unaffiliated
with Smith Barney); ongoing monitoring of the performance and suitability of the
investment manager(s) retained; securities execution and custody; and client
reporting and recordkeeping. In such programs, the client generally pays a
single bundled fee for the services provided. CG also provides traditional
investment management consulting services to institutions, including assisting
clients in formulating investment objectives and policies and in selecting
investment management firms for the day-to-day management of client portfolios.
CG's programs and services generally are delivered through Smith Barney
Financial Consultants, many of whom specialize in such programs and services. As
of December 31, 1996, Smith Barney provided consulting services with respect to
client assets aggregating approximately $49.1 billion, excluding the TRAK-R-
program described below, as compared to approximately $39.1 billion at December
31, 1995 and approximately $29.7 billion at December 31, 1994.

          Smith Barney's TRAK-R- program provides clients with non-discretionary
asset allocation advice based on the client's identification of investment
objectives and risk tolerances. TRAK-R- clients include both individuals and
institutions, including participant-



directed 401(k) plans. Clients can choose to allocate assets among the CG
Capital Markets funds, a series of 13 mutual funds each corresponding to a
particular asset class and investment style, or from among the selected fund
offerings of 28 no-load or load-waived mutual fund families (including Smith
Barney's family of funds) corresponding to the same asset class and investment
style criteria. At December 31, 1996, TRAK-R- assets exceeded $6.6 billion, as
compared to approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 1995 and approximately
$3.3 billion at December 31, 1994. Smith Barney also offers a separate offshore
TRAK-R- program to non-resident alien clients, which includes client investment
in a series of asset class/investment style funds domiciled outside the United
States.

     Miscellaneous Activities

          Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are chartered as trust companies
and provide a full range of fiduciary services with a particular emphasis on
personal trust services. Another subsidiary offers a broad range of trustee
services for qualified retirement plans, with particular emphasis on the 401(k)
plan market. Each of these trust companies is subject to the supervision of the
state banking authority where it was chartered and uses the distribution network
of SBI to market its services. Although these trust companies are subsidiaries
of the Company and not of SB Holdings, their results are included with Smith
Barney for segment reporting purposes. Smith Barney provides certain advisory
and support services to the trust companies and receives fees for such services.

          In 1996, Smith Barney formed a joint venture with the Korea Exchange
Bank. The venture, a brokerage and underwriting company based in Seoul, South
Korea, that is owned 49% by Smith Barney, is engaged in the securities brokerage
and underwriting business in the Korean markets. The venture is licensed with
the Korea Ministry of Finance and Economy to conduct securities activities in
Korea.

General

     Competition

          The businesses in which Smith Barney is engaged are highly
competitive. The principal factors affecting competition in the investment
banking and securities brokerage industry are the quality and ability of
professional personnel and the relative prices of services and products offered.
In addition to competition from other investment banking firms, both domestic
and international, and securities brokerage companies and discount securities
brokerage operations, including regional firms in the United States, there has
been increasing competition from other sources, such as commercial banks,
insurance companies and other major companies that have entered the investment
banking and securities brokerage industry, in many cases through acquisitions.
Certain of those competitors may have greater capital and other resources than
Smith Barney. The Federal Reserve Board has substantially removed the barrier
originally erected by the Glass-Steagall Act restricting investment banking
activities of 



commercial banks and their affiliates, by permitting certain commercial banks to
engage, through affiliates, in the underwriting of and dealing in certain types
of securities, subject to certain limitations. Proposed legislation has been
introduced in Congress from time to time that would modify certain other
provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act and other laws and regulations affecting
the financial services industry. The potential impact of such legislation on the
Company's businesses cannot be predicted at this time.

          Competitors of Smith Barney's mutual funds and asset management
operations include a large number of mutual fund management and sales companies
and asset management firms. Competition in mutual fund sales and investment
management is based on investment performance, service to clients and product
design.

Regulation

          Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are registered as broker-dealers
and as investment advisers with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
"Commission") and as futures commission merchants and as commodity pool
operators with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"). SBI and The
Robinson-Humphrey Company, Inc., an investment banking and financial services
subsidiary of SBI ("R-H"), are members of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the
"NYSE") and other principal United States securities exchanges, as well as the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") and the National
Futures Association ("NFA"), a not-for-profit membership corporation which has
been designated as a registered futures association by the CFTC. SBI and R-H are
registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico, and in addition are registered as investment advisers in certain
states that require such registration. SBI is also a reporting dealer to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a member of the principal United States
futures exchanges and a registered broker-dealer in Guam. Both SBI and R-H are
subject to extensive regulation, primarily for the benefit of their customers,
including minimum capital requirements, which are promulgated and enforced by,
among others, the Commission, the CFTC, the NFA, the NYSE, various
self-regulatory organizations of which SBI and R-H are members and the
securities administrators of the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto
Rico and, in SBI's case, Guam. The Commission and the CFTC also require certain
registered broker-dealers (including SBI) to maintain records concerning certain
financial and securities activities of affiliated companies that may be material
to the broker-dealer, and to file certain financial and other information
regarding such affiliated companies.

          Smith Barney's operations abroad, described in this paragraph, are
conducted through various subsidiaries. Its activities in the United Kingdom,
which include investment banking, trading, brokerage and asset management
services, are subject to the Financial Services Act 1986, which regulates
organizations that conduct investment businesses in the United Kingdom
(including imposing capital and liquidity requirements), and to the rules of the
Securities and Futures Authority and the Investment Management Regulatory
Organization. Smith Barney is a member of the International Petroleum Exchange,
the London Metals 



Exchange and the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange
and, as such, is subject to the rules and regulations of those Exchanges. In
Ireland, a Smith Barney subsidiary that sponsors commodities-related pooled
investment funds is subject to the supervision of the Central Bank of Ireland.
In France, Smith Barney operates as a regulated securities house and an
authorized mutual fund manager. Smith Barney is a licensed securities company in
Japan and, as such, its activities in Japan are subject to Japanese law
applicable to securities firms. Smith Barney is also a member of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange and the Osaka Stock Exchange, and its activities in Japan are therefore
subject to the rules and regulations of those Exchanges. Smith Barney conducts
securities and commodities businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong that are
regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Hong Kong Securities
and Futures Commission, respectively. Smith Barney also is a member of the
Singapore International Monetary Exchange and is a "B license holder" with the
Zurich Stock Exchange. Additionally, certain subsidiaries of SB Holdings are
licensed as an "international dealer," an "international adviser" and an
"investment dealer" with the Ontario Securities Commission, and as
broker-dealers with the Securities Board of The Netherlands. Smith Barney's
representative offices in Mexico City, Mexico, Paris, France, Beijing, People's
Republic of China, Manama, Bahrain and Taipei, Taiwan are also subject to the
jurisdiction of local financial services regulatory authorities. Smith Barney
also operates a private trust services business that is licensed as a bank and
trust company in the Cayman Islands, and is subject to the regulation of the
Director of Financial Services, Banks & Trust Companies Supervision Department
of the Cayman Islands.

          In connection with the mutual funds business, Smith Barney must comply
with regulations of a number of regulatory agencies and organizations, including
the Commission and the NASD. The Company, through Smith Barney, is the indirect
parent of investment advisers registered and regulated under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, and of companies that distribute shares of mutual funds
pursuant to distribution agreements subject to regulation under the Investment
Company Act of 1940. Under those Acts, the advisory contracts between the
Company's investment adviser subsidiaries and the mutual funds they serve
("Affiliated Funds"), as well as the mutual fund distribution agreements, would
automatically terminate upon an assignment of such contracts by the investment
adviser or the fund distribution company, as the case may be. Such an assignment
would be presumed to have occurred if any party were to acquire more than 25% of
the Company's voting securities. Continuation of advisory and distribution
relationships under these circumstances could be achieved only by obtaining
consent to the assignment from the shareholders of the Affiliated Funds
involved. In addition, SBI and the Affiliated Funds are subject to certain
restrictions in their dealings with each other. For example, SBI may act as
broker to an Affiliated Fund in a transaction involving an exchange-traded
security only when that fund maintains procedures that govern, among other
things, the execution price of the transaction and the commissions paid; SBI may
not, however, conduct principal transactions with an Affiliated Fund. Further,
an Affiliated Fund may acquire securities during the existence of an
underwriting where SBI is a principal underwriter only in certain limited
situations.



          SBI and R-H are members of the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation ("SIPC"), which, in the event of liquidation of a broker-dealer,
provides protection for customers' securities accounts held by the firm of up to
$500,000 for each eligible customer, subject to a limitation of $100,000 for
claims for cash balances. In addition, Smith Barney has purchased additional
coverage of up to $150 million for eligible customers, approximately $50 million
of which is from a subsidiary of the Company.

          As registered broker-dealers, SBI and R-H are subject to the
Commission's net capital rule, Rule 15c3-1 (the "Net Capital Rule"), promulgated
under the Exchange Act. SBI and R-H compute net capital under the alternative
method of the Net Capital Rule which requires the maintenance of minimum net
capital, as defined. A member of the NYSE may be required to reduce its business
if its net capital is less than 4% of aggregate debit balances (as defined) and
may also be prohibited from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if
resulting net capital would be less than 5% of aggregate debit balances.
Furthermore, the Net Capital Rule does not permit withdrawal of equity or
subordinated capital if the resulting net capital would be less than 5% of such
debit balances.

          The Net Capital Rule also limits the ability of broker-dealers to
transfer large amounts of capital to parent companies and other affiliates.
Under the Net Capital Rule, equity capital cannot be withdrawn from a
broker-dealer without the prior approval of the Commission in certain
circumstances, including when net capital after the withdrawal would be less
than (i) 120% of the minimum net capital required by the Net Capital Rule, or
(ii) 25% of the broker-dealer's securities position "haircuts," i.e.,
deductions from capital of certain specified percentages of the market value of
securities to reflect the possibility of a market decline prior to disposition.
In addition, the Net Capital Rule requires broker-dealers to notify the
Commission and the appropriate self-regulatory organization two business days
before a withdrawal of excess net capital if the withdrawal would exceed the
greater of $500,000 or 30% of the broker-dealer's excess net capital, and two
business days after a withdrawal that exceeds the greater of $500,000 or 20% of
excess net capital. Finally, the Net Capital Rule authorizes the Commission to
order a freeze on the transfer of capital if a broker-dealer plans a withdrawal
of more than 30% of its excess net capital and the Commission believes that such
a withdrawal would be detrimental to the financial integrity of the firm or
would jeopardize the broker-dealer's ability to pay its customers. For
additional information on the Net Capital Rule, see Note 14 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



                            CONSUMER FINANCE SERVICES

          The Company's Consumer Finance Services segment includes consumer
lending services conducted primarily under the name "Commercial Credit," as well
as credit-related insurance and credit card services. CCC's predecessor was
founded in 1912.

Consumer Finance

          As of December 31, 1996, Consumer Finance Services maintained 859 loan
offices in 44 states, including servicing centers for loans sold through the PFS
sales force. The Company owns two state-chartered banks headquartered in Newark,
Delaware, which generally limit their activities to offering credit card
services nationwide.

          Loans to consumers by the Consumer Finance Services unit include real
estate-secured loans, both fixed and variable rate secured and unsecured
personal loans and fixed rate loans to finance consumer goods purchases. Credit
card loans are discussed below. CCC's loan offices are generally located in
small to medium-sized communities in suburban or rural areas, and are managed by
individuals who generally have considerable consumer lending experience. The
primary market for CCC's consumer loans consists of households with an annual
income of $20,000 to $50,000. The number of active loan customers (excluding
credit card customers) was approximately 1,333,000 at December 31, 1996, as
compared to approximately 1,275,000 at December 31, 1995 and approximately
1,177,000 at December 31, 1994. In 1996, CCC created an agency that performs
appraisals, sells title insurance and provides other closing-related services
for CCC's real-estate loans.

          Two CCC loan programs solicit applications for loans exclusively
through the PFS sales force. During 1996, CCC converted 27 of its loan offices
to servicing centers for the loan products sold through the PFS sales force. At
December 31, 1996, the total loans outstanding generated from this program were
$1.524 billion, or approximately 19% of CCC's total loans outstanding, as
compared to $1.258 billion, or approximately 17%, at December 31, 1995 and
$1.107 billion, or approximately 16%, at December 31, 1994. See "Life Insurance
Services -- Primerica Financial Services."

          The average amount of cash advanced per real estate-secured loan made
was approximately $35,800 in 1996, $26,300 in 1995 and $28,400 in 1994. The
average amount of cash advanced per personal loan made was approximately $4,250
in 1996 and $4,200 in each of 1995 and 1994. The average real estate-secured
loan size increased in 1996 due to marketing initiatives that attracted
customers for higher balance loans, particularly in first mortgage programs. The
average annual yield for loans in 1996 was 15.24%, as compared to 15.64% in 1995
and 15.41% in 1994. The average annual yield for real estate-secured loans in
1996 was 12.13%, as compared to 12.33% in 1995 and 12.20% in 1994, and for
personal loans it was 19.95% in 1996, as compared to 20.23% in 1995 and 20.20%
in 1994. The average yield for real estate-secured loans has been affected by
the normal run-off of older, higher 



yielding loans and growth in lower yielding, higher quality loans, while the
average yield for personal loans has been affected by the industry trends
associated with rising personal bankruptcies. Consumer Finance Services' average
net interest margin for loans was 8.64% in 1996, 8.79% in 1995 and 8.76% in
1994.

          CCC's delinquency and charge-off rates reached historically low levels
in 1994 and rose in 1995 and 1996, consistent with recent industry trends. This
increase in delinquencies and charge-offs reflects a continued high level of
personal bankruptcies, a national trend that shows no indication of reversing
itself. See "-- Delinquent Receivables and Loss Experience."

     Analysis of Consumer Finance Receivables

          For an analysis of consumer finance receivables, net of unearned
finance charges ("Consumer Finance Receivables"), see Note 9 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Delinquent Receivables and Loss Experience

          Due to the nature of the finance business, some customer delinquency
and loss is unavoidable. The management of the consumer finance business
attempts to control customer delinquencies through careful evaluation of each
borrower's application and credit history at the time the loan is made or
acquired, and appropriate collection activity. An account is considered
delinquent for financial reporting purposes when a payment is more than 60 days
past due, based on the original or extended terms of the contract. The
delinquency and loss experience on real estate-secured loans is generally more
favorable than on personal loans.

          The following table sets forth the ratio of receivables delinquent for
60 days or more on a contractual basis (i.e., more than 60 days past due) to
gross receivables outstanding:

                 Ratio of Receivables Delinquent 60 Days or More
                      to Gross Receivables Outstanding (1)

                                   Real
                                   Estate-
                      Personal     Secured     Credit      Sales       Total
As of December 31,    Loans        Loans       Cards       Finance     Consumer
- ------------------    -----        -----       -----       -------     --------
     1996             3.42%        1.50%       1.44%       2.27%        2.38%
     1995             2.89%        1.42%       1.40%       2.17%        2.14%
     1994             2.40%        1.48%       1.05%       1.79%        1.88%

- ----------
(1)  The receivable balance used for these ratios is before the deduction of
     unearned finance charges and excludes accrued interest receivable.
     Receivables delinquent 60 days or more include, for all periods presented,
     accounts in the process of foreclosure.



          The following table sets forth the ratio of net charge-offs to average
Consumer Finance Receivables. For all periods presented, the ratios shown give
effect to all deferred origination costs.

        Ratio of Net Charge-Offs to Average Consumer Finance Receivables

                                   Real
                                   Estate-
     Year Ended       Personal     Secured     Credit      Sales       Total
     December 31,     Loans        Loans       Cards       Finance     Consumer
- ------------------    -----        -----       -----       -------     --------
     1996             5.46%        0.50%       2.75%       3.34%       2.91%
     1995             4.01%        0.64%       2.04%       2.46%       2.28%
     1994             3.50%        0.82%       1.83%       2.03%       2.08%

          The following table sets forth information regarding the ratio of
allowance for losses to Consumer Finance Receivables:

          Ratio of Allowance For Losses to Consumer Finance Receivables

                               As of December 31,
                               ------------------
                                 1996   2.97%
                                 1995   2.66%
                                 1994   2.64%

Credit-Related Insurance

          American Health and Life Insurance Company ("AHL"), a subsidiary of
CCC, underwrites or arranges for credit-related insurance, which is offered to
customers of the consumer finance business. AHL has an A+ (superior) rating from
A.M. Best Company ("A.M. Best"), whose ratings may be revised or withdrawn at
any time. At a minimum, credit life insurance covers the declining balance of
unpaid indebtedness. Credit disability insurance provides monthly benefits
during periods of covered disability. Credit property insurance covers the loss
of property given as security for loans. Other insurance products offered or
arranged for by AHL primarily include auto single interest and involuntary
unemployment insurance. Most of AHL's products are single premium, which
premiums are earned over the related contract period. See "Life Insurance
Services" for information concerning life insurance other than credit-related
insurance.



          The following table sets forth gross written insurance premiums, net
of refunds, for consumer finance customers:

                   Consumer Finance Insurance Premiums Written
                                  (in millions)

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                     -----------------------
                                                  1996       1995       1994
                                                  ----       ----       ----
Premiums written by AHL and its affiliates 
   Writings for consumer finance:
           Credit life                            $ 42.7     $ 41.8     $ 43.3
           Credit disability and other              63.1       61.4       66.7
           Credit property and other                18.0        4.1        3.0
                                                  ------     ------     ------
                 Total                            $123.8     $107.3     $113.0
                                                  ======     ======     ======
Premiums written by other insurance companies                          
           Credit property and other              $ 42.9     $ 51.6     $ 52.8
                                                  ======     ======     ======

          Net premiums written began to increase in late 1996 compared to 1995
primarily due to growth in loan receivables. Net premiums written were
relatively flat in early 1996 and 1995 compared to 1994 primarily due to slower
growth in loan receivables.

Credit Card Services

          The Travelers Bank, a subsidiary of CCC, is a state-chartered bank
located in Newark, Delaware, which provides credit card services, including
upper market gold credit card services, to individuals and to affinity groups
(such as nationwide professional associations and fraternal organizations). The
Travelers Bank USA, another state-chartered bank subsidiary of CCC, is not
subject to certain regulatory restrictions relating to cross-marketing
activities to which The Travelers Bank is subject. See "-- Regulation." These
banks generally limit their activities to credit card operations.

          The following table sets forth aggregate information regarding credit
cards issued by The Travelers Bank and The Travelers Bank USA.

                    Credit Cardholders and Total Outstandings
                           (outstandings in millions)

                                      As of, or for the year ended, December 31,
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                          1996           1995            1994
                                          ----           ----            ----
Approximate total credit cardholders    791,000         753,000        621,000
Approximate gold credit cardholders     642,000         615,000        519,000
Total outstandings                       $907.1          $761.8         $712.5
Average annual yield                      11.82%          12.51%         11.88%



          The primary market for the banks' credit cards consists of households
with annual incomes of $40,000 and above.

          The banks offer deposit-taking services (which as to The Travelers
Bank USA are limited to deposits of at least $100,000 per account). At December
31, 1996, deposits of unaffiliated entities were $81.9 million, as compared to
$97.9 million at December 31, 1995 and $73.3 million at December 31, 1994. The
decrease in the average annual yield in 1996 primarily resulted from the
offering of promotional rates in 1996 to encourage the transfer of credit card
balances to the Company's banks.

Competition

          The consumer finance business competes with banks, savings and loan
associations, credit unions, credit card issuers and other consumer finance
companies. Additionally, substantial national financial services networks have
been formed by major brokerage firms, insurance companies, retailers and bank
holding companies. Some competitors have substantial local market positions;
others are part of large, diversified organizations. Deregulation of banking
institutions has greatly expanded the consumer lending products permitted to be
offered by these institutions, and because of their long-standing insured
deposit base, many of them are able to offer financial services on very
competitive terms. The Company believes that it is able to compete effectively
with such institutions. In particular, the Company believes that the diversity
and features of the products it offers, personal service, and cultivation of
repeat and referral business support and strengthen its competitive position in
its Consumer Finance Services businesses.

Regulation

          Most consumer finance activities are subject to extensive federal and
state regulation, including examination and review by state authorities of
consumer finance offices. Personal loan, real estate-secured loan and sales
finance laws generally require licensing of the lender, limitations on the
amount, duration and charges for various categories of loans, adequate
disclosure of certain contract terms and limitations on certain collection
practices and creditor remedies. Federal consumer credit statutes primarily
require disclosure of credit terms in consumer finance transactions. CCC's
banks, which must undergo periodic examination, are subject to additional
regulations relating to capitalization, leverage, reporting, dividends and
permitted asset and liability products. These banks are also covered by the
Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 (the "Banking Act"), which, with
respect to The Travelers Bank, restricts cross-marketing of products by or of
certain affiliates. CCC's banks are also subject to the Community Reinvestment
Act, which assesses the bank's record in helping to meet the credit needs of low
and moderate income persons in such bank's delineated community, and the Fair
Credit Reporting Act, which is aimed at ensuring the accuracy and 



fairness of the mechanism by which consumer credit and other information on
consumers is assembled and evaluated. The Company believes that it complies in
all material respects with applicable regulations. See "Insurance Services -
General -- Regulation" at the end of the description of the Life Insurance
Services segment for a discussion of the regulatory factors governing the
insurance businesses of CCC.

          The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 ("RESPA") covers
real estate loans secured by residential real estate. Generally, RESPA requires
disclosure of certain information to customers and regulates the receipt or
payment of fees or charges for services performed.

          Proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that would modify
certain laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry. The
potential impact of such legislation on the Company's businesses cannot be
predicted at this time.

                     PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE SERVICES

          This segment includes the operations of TAP and its subsidiary and
affiliated property-casualty insurance companies, all of which are collectively
referred to herein as "TAP." TAP provides a wide range of commercial and
personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses,
government units, associations and individuals. As described above, on April 2,
1996, TAP acquired Aetna P&C. The Company's results of operations for periods
prior to April 2, 1996 do not include the results of Aetna P&C. See Notes 2 and
4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For informational purposes, the
premium and certain other operational information provided below includes Aetna
P&C's businesses prior to the Acquisition.

Commercial Lines

          TAP is the third largest writer of commercial lines insurance in the
United States based on 1995 direct written premiums published by A.M. Best,
after giving effect to the Acquisition and recent industry consolidation. TAP's
Commercial Lines offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and
insurance-related services. Commercial Lines is organized into four marketing
and underwriting groups that are designed to focus on a particular client base
or industry segment to provide products and services that specifically address
customers' needs: National Accounts, primarily serving large national
corporations; Commercial Accounts, serving mid-size businesses; Select Accounts,
serving small businesses and individuals with commercial exposures; and
Specialty Accounts, providing a variety of specialty coverages. TAP also has a
dedicated group within Commercial Lines that serves the construction industry.
TAP distributes its commercial products through approximately 4,600 brokers and
independent agencies located throughout the United States.

          The commercial coverages marketed by TAP include workers'
compensation, general liability (including product liability), commercial
multi-peril, commercial automobile, property 



(including fire and allied lines) and several other miscellaneous coverages. TAP
also underwrites specialty coverages through three separate units, Travelers
Specialty, Gulf Specialty and Bond Specialty, which have historically focused on
unique risks that typically require specialized underwriting. Coverages offered
by Travelers Specialty include general liability for selected product liability
risks, medical malpractice and umbrella and excess liability. Coverages offered
by Gulf Specialty include directors' and officers' liability and errors and
omissions insurance for various professions, umbrella insurance, insurance for
municipalities, hard to place coverages sold on an excess and surplus lines
basis and fidelity and surety coverage. Coverages offered by Bond Specialty
include fidelity and surety, fiduciary liability insurance, directors' and
officers' and other professional liability insurance and other related coverages
such as kidnap and ransom and mail insurance. In addition, TAP offers various
risk management services, generally including claims settlement, loss control
and engineering services, to businesses that choose to self-insure certain
exposures, to state funds and insurance carriers that participate in state
involuntary workers' compensation pools and to employers seeking to manage
workers' compensation medical and disability costs. In 1996, Commercial Lines
generated combined net written premiums of $4.7 billion and combined premium
equivalents of $2.7 billion. As used herein, unless the context otherwise
requires, "combined" refers to the operations of both Travelers P&C and Aetna
P&C, without regard to the date of the Acquisition.

     Selected Product and Market Information

          The following table sets forth by product line and market net written
premiums and premium equivalents for Commercial Lines for the periods indicated.
For a description of the product lines and markets referred to in the table
below, see "-- Product Lines" and "-- Principal Markets and Methods of
Distribution," respectively.

          Over the past several years, National Accounts customers have moved
increasingly from traditional insurance coverages to service-type products,
primarily for workers' compensation coverage and to a lesser extent in general
liability and commercial automobile coverages. These types of products include
risk management services such as claims settlement, loss control and
engineering. The volume of business handled by TAP in servicing relationships is
measured by "premium equivalents." Premium equivalents do not represent actual
premium revenues. Premium equivalents are determined in the pricing process and
represent TAP's estimates of premiums that its customers would have been charged
under a fully insured arrangement, based on expected losses associated with
non-risk-bearing components of each account.

          Because the Acquisition occurred on April 2, 1996, the Company's
results of operations for periods prior to April 2, 1996 do not include the
results of Aetna P&C. Accordingly, premium and other operational information
provided for TAP's combined businesses prior to such time is for informational
purposes only.



              Combined Net Written Premiums and Premium Equivalents





- ----------
(1)  The decreases in net written premiums during the periods shown reflect the
     highly competitive marketplace and TAP's selective underwriting practices.
(2)  Premium equivalents for the year ended December 31, 1994 are provided for
     Travelers P&C only. Historically, Aetna P&C did not track premium
     equivalents and such amounts are not available for that period. The
     decreases in premium equivalents during the periods shown reflect a
     depopulation of involuntary pools as the loss experience of workers'
     compensation improves and insureds move to voluntary markets, TAP's
     selective renewal activity to address the competitive pricing environment
     and its continued success in lowering workers' compensation losses of
     customers.



     Product Lines

          TAP writes a broad range of commercial property and casualty insurance
for risks of all sizes. The core products in TAP's Commercial Lines are as
follows:

          Workers' Compensation provides coverage for employers' liability for
injuries to employees under common law as well as the obligation of an employer
under state or federal law to provide its employees with specified benefits for
work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault. In addition to
the liability exposure that may arise under common law, there are typically four
types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical
benefits, disability benefits, death benefits and vocational rehabilitation
benefits. Workers' compensation policies are often written in conjunction with
other commercial policies. TAP offers two types of workers' compensation
products: (i) insurance products, including guaranteed cost policies, in which
policy premiums charged are fixed and do not vary as a result of the insured's
loss experience, and loss sensitive plans, including retrospectively rated
policies, in which premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the
insured during the policy period, and large deductible plans, in which the
customer bears the insurance risk up to its deductible amount, and (ii) service
programs, which are generally sold to TAP's larger National Accounts, where TAP
receives fees for providing loss prevention, risk management, claims
administration and benefit administration services to organizations pursuant to
service agreements. TAP also participates in state assigned risk pools servicing
workers' compensation policies as a servicing carrier and pool participant. TAP
emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies (which involve employers,
employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that focuses on the injured
employee's early return to work), cost-effective quality care, and customer
service in this market. Workers' compensation comprehensive claim and managed
care cost containment services are integrated through TAP's claims management
system to maximize cost savings on both service delivery and loss payout. For
the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's workers' compensation line generated
$1.2 billion of combined net written premiums and $2.2 billion of combined
premium equivalents.

          General Liability provides coverage for liability exposures including
bodily injury and property damage arising from products sold and general
business operations. General liability also includes coverage for directors' and
officers' liability arising in their official capacities, fiduciary liability
for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare and other employee
benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for employees, agents,
professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified
circumstances, as well as medical malpractice, umbrella and excess insurance.
For the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's general liability line generated
$836 million of combined net written premiums and $299 million of combined
premium equivalents.

          Commercial Multi-Peril provides a combination of property and
liability coverage for businesses and business property for damages such as that
caused by fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, and protects businesses
from financial loss due to business interruption. 



It also insures businesses against third-party liability from accidents
occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, such as injuries
sustained from products sold. For the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's
commercial multi-peril line generated $1.2 billion of combined net written
premiums.

          Commercial Automobile provides coverage for businesses against losses
incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties, property
damage to an insured's vehicle, and property damage to other vehicles and other
property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and
trucks in a business. For the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's commercial
automobile line generated $806 million of combined net written premiums and $240
million of combined premium equivalents.

          Property provides coverage for loss or damage to buildings, inventory
and equipment from natural disasters, including hurricanes, windstorms,
earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather and other events such as
theft and vandalism, fires and storms and financial loss due to business
interruption. Property also includes inland marine, which provides coverage for
goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures. For the year ended
December 31, 1996, TAP's property line generated $342 million of combined net
written premiums.

          Fidelity and Surety provides fidelity insurance coverage which
protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by
an employee. Surety is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay
a second party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts
or omissions of a third party. Surety is generally provided for construction
performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate
and other performance bonds. For the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's
fidelity and surety line generated $215 million of combined net written
premiums.

          Other coverages include boiler and machinery insurance, which provides
coverage for loss or damage resulting from the malfunction of boilers and
machinery, as well as miscellaneous assumed reinsurance. For the year ended
December 31, 1996, these other coverages generated $45 million of combined net
written premiums.

     Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

          Commercial Lines is organized into four marketing groups that are
designed to focus on a particular client base or industry segment to provide
products and services that specifically address customers' needs: National
Accounts, primarily serving large national corporations; Commercial Accounts,
serving mid-size businesses; Select Accounts, serving small businesses; and
Specialty Accounts, providing a variety of specialty coverages. TAP also has a
dedicated group within Commercial Lines that serves the construction industry.

          TAP distributes its commercial products primarily through
approximately 4,600 brokers and independent agencies located throughout the
United States that are serviced by 99 



field offices. TAP seeks to establish relationships with well-established,
independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent
agencies and brokers to distribute TAP's products, TAP considers each agency's
or broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic
fit with TAP's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is
appointed, TAP carefully monitors its performance.

     National Accounts

          National Accounts serves large companies, as well as employee groups,
associations and franchises. National Accounts also includes TAP's alternative
market business (the "Alternative Market"), which primarily covers workers'
compensation products and services to voluntary and involuntary state pools.
National Accounts customers typically generate annual direct written premiums
and premium equivalents of over $1 million per account and generally select
products under retrospectively rated plans, large self-insured retentions or
some other loss-responsive arrangement. National Accounts programs involve both
traditional insurance (risk transfer) and risk service (claims settlement, loss
control and risk management). Customers are usually national in scope and range
in size from businesses with sales of approximately $10 million per year to
Fortune 2000 corporations. Products are marketed through national brokers and
regional agents with offices throughout the United States. Based on combined net
written premiums of $874 million and combined premium equivalents of $2.6
billion, National Accounts constituted approximately 47% of the Commercial Lines
business in 1996.

          National Accounts customers often demand risk service programs where
the ultimate cost is based on their own loss experience. Programs offered by TAP
include claims settlement, loss control and risk management services and are
generally offered in connection with a retrospectively rated insurance policy, a
large deductible plan or a self-insured program. Workers' compensation accounted
for approximately 76% of the products sold in 1996 to National Accounts
customers, based on combined net written premiums and premium equivalents.

          The Alternative Market business of National Accounts sells claims and
policy management services to workers' compensation and automobile assigned risk
plans, self-insurance pools throughout the United States and to niche voluntary
markets. Since 1993, most state assigned workers' compensation risk plan
contracts have been awarded through a formal state-by-state bid process.
Contracts, which are generally for three-year terms, are awarded by state
agencies based on quality of service and price. TAP has emerged as the largest
workers' compensation assigned risk plan servicing insurer in the industry with
approximately 28% share of the market in 1996. Assigned risk plan contracts
generated approximately $456 million in combined premium equivalents in 1996 for
TAP.

          TAP also services self-insurance groups, sells excess workers'
compensation coverage to these groups and markets various workers' compensation
specialty programs. Self-insurance groups and these specialty programs generated
combined net written premiums 



and premium equivalents of $89 million in 1996. National Accounts also
participates in various involuntary assigned risk pools, which provide insurance
coverage to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase
such coverage in the voluntary market. Participation in these pools in most
states is generally in proportion to voluntary writings of related lines of
business in that state.

     Commercial Accounts

          Commercial Accounts sells a broad range of property and casualty
insurance products through a large network of independent agents and brokers.
Commercial Accounts targets businesses with 75 to 1,000 employees that generate
between $50,000 and $1 million in annual direct written premiums and premium
equivalents. TAP offers a full line of products to its Commercial Accounts
customers, with an emphasis on guaranteed cost products. TAP also offers
retrospectively rated or large deductible programs to these customers. Based on
combined net written premiums of $1.7 billion and combined premium equivalents
of $87 million, Commercial Accounts constituted approximately 25% of the
Commercial Lines business in 1996.

          Commercial Accounts targets certain industries in which TAP has
claims, engineering and underwriting expertise and to which TAP has established
dedicated operations. Industry segments include from the manufacturing sector:
advanced technology, metal products, mineral products, plastic and rubber
products manufacturing and wood products. Also targeted are colleges and
universities, transportation, retail, financial, property management and the
wholesale industry. TAP continues to develop new industry-targeted programs both
on a national and local level. Specific industry knowledge enables TAP to
select, as customers, better managed companies in an industry segment, to tailor
specialized coverages for those companies, and to link price to the individual
exposure and to control risk. Instead of relying on rating bureaus to establish
rates for products, TAP generally uses its proprietary data, which it has
compiled from many years of data generated by its extensive underwriting and
pricing experience. Accordingly, subject to applicable state insurance
regulations, prices are derived from those proprietary rates and numerous
variables that apply to specific risks. TAP believes that relying on extensive
proprietary data to assess individual risk characteristics, rather than relying
on data from industry rating bureaus, provides it with a competitive advantage
in pricing and underwriting commercial risks. TAP uses components of this
approach specifically in connection with loss control and claims management
processing. Through a network of field offices, TAP's marketing and underwriting
specialists, who have point of sale authority, work closely with local brokers
and agents to tailor insurance coverage to individual customer needs.

          Construction. TAP has established dedicated operations that
exclusively target the construction industry, providing insurance and risk
management services for virtually all areas of construction, including general
contractors, heavy construction (including street and road) and special trade
contractors, except artisan or smaller trade contractors. TAP offers all product
lines to midsize and national customers in the construction market, including
both 



guaranteed cost and loss-responsive products, with general liability, workers'
compensation, commercial auto, commercial property and inland marine coverages.
The dedicated construction operations provide specialized service and
underwriting, with local market expertise and national capability, that enable
TAP to tailor specialized coverages, have competitive pricing and control risk.
This includes local underwriters who understand their state's laws and claim
climates, engineering and loss control specialists, professional claim
management and legal personnel with extensive construction experience.
Construction's products are distributed through independent agents and brokers
throughout the United States.

     Select Accounts

          Select Accounts serves individuals who have commercial exposures and
firms typically with one to 75 employees, typically generating up to $50,000 in
annual direct written premiums per account. Products offered to Select Accounts
are generally guaranteed cost policies, often a packaged product covering
property and liability exposures. Products are sold through independent agents,
who are often the same agents that sell TAP's Commercial Accounts and Personal
Lines products. Based on combined net written premiums of $1.4 billion, Select
Accounts constituted approximately 19% of the Commercial Lines business in 1996.

          Personnel in TAP's field offices and other points of local service,
which are located throughout the United States, work closely with agents to
ensure a strong local presence in the marketplace. TAP utilizes a marketing and
underwriting approach based on agency automation and defined underwriting
criteria. Agency automation allows agents access to TAP's price quotation and
policy issuance systems and enables agents to provide faster and more
cost-effective service to customers with supervision and underwriting control.
Agents that do not utilize the automated quotation and policy issuance systems
work with TAP's sales and marketing representatives who have point of sale
authority. Agents serving Select Accounts are given greater control and
discretion over underwriting decisions, within predefined parameters, than
brokers selling to larger accounts. Because underwriting criteria and pricing
tend to be more standardized for smaller businesses, Select Accounts uses a
standard industry classification (S.I.C.) based process to allow agents and
field marketing representatives to make underwriting and pricing decisions
within predetermined classifications. Business in other classes is subject to
consultative review by in-house underwriters. TAP believes that its breadth of
products, highly qualified field staff and its technology offer distinct
competitive advantages.

     Specialty Accounts

          Specialty Accounts markets products to national, midsize and small
customers, as well as individuals, and distributes them through both wholesale
brokers and retail agents and brokers throughout the United States. TAP's fast
response time on underwriting decisions, industry expertise and quality service
are important to maintaining relationships with Specialty Accounts insureds and
producers. TAP believes that it has a competitive advantage with 



respect to many of these products based on its reputation for clear, timely
decision-making, underwriting and industry expertise and strong producer and
customer relationships as well as its ability to cross-sell with National
Accounts, Commercial Accounts and Select Accounts. Based on combined net written
premiums of $679 million, Specialty Accounts constituted approximately 9% of the
Commercial Lines business in 1996.

          TAP has three separate marketing and underwriting groups within
Specialty Accounts:

          Travelers Specialty provides a broad range of products targeting risks
that do not fall within the underwriting guidelines of the other Commercial
Lines segments and that require highly specialized underwriting. The core
products include general liability for select product liability risks, umbrella
and excess liability, medical malpractice, various types of professional
liability, errors and omissions liability, primary and excess property, and
various coverages that target the transportation industry.

          Gulf Specialty focuses on many non-traditional lines of business with
a particular emphasis on the financial services market. Products include
directors' and officers' liability insurance, errors and omissions coverage for
bankers, investment counselors and mutual fund advisors, and fidelity and surety
coverage for related classes. In addition, Gulf Specialty offers errors and
omissions coverage for professionals and non-professionals such as lawyers,
architects and engineers, insurance agents, podiatrists and chiropractors. Gulf
Specialty also writes umbrella coverage for various industries, provides
insurance products to the entertainment industry and to municipalities and
provides insurance products for other industry specific programs. In addition,
Gulf Specialty has developed a book of excess and surplus lines business through
its non-admitted company.

          Bond Specialty's range of products includes fidelity and surety bonds,
directors' and officers' and other professional liability insurance, fiduciary
liability insurance and other related coverages. The customer base ranges from
large financial services companies and commercial entities to small businesses
and individuals. Products and services are distributed primarily through agents
and brokers. Bond is organized around four broad customer segments: Financial
Services, Construction, National Risk (customers with more than $500 million in
revenues) and Commercial Risk (companies with less than $500 million in revenues
and individuals). Bond's agency agreement with Executive Risk Management
Associates ("ERMA"), a partnership owned by Executive Risk, Inc., was
restructured effective January 1, 1997. The restructured agreement replaces the
prior exclusive underwriter status of ERMA for directors' and officers'
liability insurance written by Aetna Casualty with a non-exclusive agreement.



     Pricing and Underwriting

          Pricing levels for property and casualty insurance products by
Commercial Lines are generally developed based upon the frequency and severity
of estimated losses, the expenses of producing business and administering
claims, and a reasonable allowance for profit. TAP's strategy emphasizes a
profit-oriented approach rather than a premium volume or market share-oriented
approach to underwriting. TAP's National Accounts business, which sells
primarily risk management services and loss sensitive products, continues to be
very competitive on price. Commercial Accounts and Select Accounts primarily
sell guaranteed cost products.

          A significant portion of Commercial Lines business is written with
retrospectively rated insurance policies as well as large deductible policies in
which the ultimate cost of insurance for a given policy year is dependent on the
loss experience of the insured. Retrospectively rated policies are primarily
used in workers' compensation coverage. Although the payment terms and long-term
nature of the loss development reduces insurance risk, it introduces some
additional credit risk. Receivables from holders of retrospectively rated and
large deductible policies totaled approximately $755 million at December 31,
1996. Collateral, primarily letters of credit and, to a lesser extent, cash
collateral, is generally requested for contracts that provide for deferred
collection of ultimate premiums. The amount of collateral requested is
predicated upon the creditworthiness of the customer and the nature of the
insured risks. Commercial Lines continually monitors the credit exposure on
individual accounts and the adequacy of collateral.

          Under certain workers' compensation insurance contracts with
deductible features, TAP is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the
claim. TAP is subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible
amount, and is subject to credit risk until such reimbursement is made. At
December 31, 1996, contractholder receivables and payables were approximately
$1.8 billion.

          TAP has developed an underwriting methodology that incorporates
underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines
for particular industries. This approach is designed to maintain high quality
underwriting and pricing discipline. This approach utilizes proprietary data
gathered and analyzed by TAP with respect to its Commercial Lines business over
many years. The underwriters and engineers use this information to assess and
evaluate risks prior to quotation. This information provides specialized
knowledge about industry segments and catastrophe management and helps analyze
risk based on account characteristics and pricing parameters designed to ensure
that TAP does not compromise its underwriting integrity. This process is linked
with strong underwriting interaction and review at TAP's and agents' locations.

          TAP is also a member of and participates in the underwriting
operations of insurance and reinsurance pools and associations, several of which
make independent underwriting decisions on behalf of their members. These pools
insure specialized risks such as exposures related to the aviation and nuclear
power industries.



          TAP continually reviews its exposure to catastrophic losses and
attempts to mitigate such exposure. See "Insurance Services - General --
Reinsurance." TAP uses sophisticated computer modeling techniques to assess
underwriting risks and renewal of business in catastrophe-prone areas.

     Geographic Distribution

          The following table shows the distribution of Commercial Lines' direct
written premiums for the states that accounted for the majority of combined
premium volume for the year ended December 31, 1996:

               State                                % of Total
               -----                                ----------
               New York                                13.5%
               California                               8.8
               Texas                                    5.9
               Massachusetts                            5.9
               Pennsylvania                             4.5
               Florida                                  4.5
               New Jersey                               4.1
               Illinois                                 4.0
               Connecticut                              3.7
               North Carolina                           3.1
               All Others (1)                          42.0
                                                     ------
               Total                                  100.0%
                                                     ======

- ----------
(1)  No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total combined
     direct written premiums written in 1996 by TAP.

Personal Lines

          TAP is the largest writer of personal lines insurance through
independent agents and the seventh largest writer of personal lines insurance
overall in the United States based on 1995 direct written premiums published by
A.M. Best, after giving effect to the Acquisition and recent industry
consolidation. In 1996, Personal Lines generated combined net written premiums
of approximately $2.7 billion. Personal Lines primarily offers personal
automobile and homeowners insurance.

          Personal Lines distributes products primarily through approximately
5,000 independent agents located throughout the United States. TAP is also
pursuing a number of initiatives to broaden its distribution of Personal Lines
products, including targeted marketing to affinity groups, employee groups and
other sponsoring organizations and establishing co-



marketing arrangements with other insurers. In 1994, TAP began a pilot program
to market personal automobile and homeowners insurance through the independent
agents of Primerica Financial Services ("PFS"), a unit of Travelers Group. The
product is sold under the name Secure-SM-, and the program has expanded to reach
37 states. Over 6,300 PFS agents were licensed to sell Secure-SM- products by
the end of 1996, and approximately 5,000 new automobile and homeowners policies
are now being sold through this program each month.

     Selected Product Information

          The following table sets forth by product line net written premiums
for Personal Lines for the periods indicated. For a description of the product
lines referred to in the table below, see "-- Product Lines."

          Because the Acquisition occurred on April 2, 1996, the Company's
results of operations for periods prior to April 2, 1996 do not include the
results of Aetna P&C. Accordingly, premium and other operational information
provided for TAP's combined businesses prior to such time is for informational
purposes only.

                          Combined Net Written Premiums



     Product Lines

          TAP writes virtually all types of property and casualty insurance
covering personal risks. Personal Lines had approximately 4.2 million policies
in force at December 31, 1996. The primary coverages in Personal Lines are
personal automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals.

          Personal Automobile provides coverage for liability to others for both
bodily injury and property damage and for physical damage to an insured's own
vehicle from collision and various other perils. In addition, many states
require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently
referred to as no-fault coverage. For the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's
personal automobile policies generated $1.9 billion of combined net written
premiums.



          Homeowners and Other provides protection against losses to dwellings
and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability
arising from ownership or occupancy. TAP writes homeowners insurance for
dwellings, condominiums, mobile homes and rental property contents. Other
products include coverage for boats, personal articles such as jewelry, and
umbrella liability protection. For the year ended December 31, 1996, TAP's
homeowners and other policies generated $824 million of combined net written
premiums.

     Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

          Personal Lines products are distributed primarily through
approximately 5,000 independent agents located throughout the United States,
supported by a network of 23 field marketing offices and five customer service
centers. The principal markets for Personal Lines insurance are in states along
the East Coast, in the South, and in the Midwest. In the states of Florida, New
Jersey and Massachusetts, TAP operates stand-alone domestic companies to enhance
its competitive capability in these highly regulated markets. Separate business
units within Personal Lines market to affinity groups and through the sales
force of PFS.

          Insurance companies generally market personal automobile and
homeowners insurance through one of two distribution systems: independent agents
or direct writing. The independent agents that distribute TAP's Personal Lines
products usually represent several unrelated property and casualty companies. In
contrast, direct writing companies operate either by mail or through exclusive
agents or sales representatives. Due in part to the expense advantage that
direct writers may have relative to companies using independent agents, the
direct writing companies have gradually expanded their market share in recent
years.

          Personal Lines continues to focus on the independent agency
distribution system, recognizing the service and underwriting advantages the
agent can deliver. In addition to its agency distribution system, TAP is
pursuing a number of initiatives to broaden its distribution of Personal Lines
products, including targeted marketing to affinity groups, employee groups and
other sponsoring organizations and establishing co-marketing arrangements with
other insurers. In 1994, TAP began writing personal automobile and homeowners
insurance through the independent agents of PFS in order to broaden the
distribution of its Personal Lines products. This program is now available in 37
states.

          In 1995, Aetna P&C entered into a marketing agreement with GEICO to
write the majority of GEICO's homeowners business, and to receive referrals from
GEICO for new homeowners business. This agreement added historically profitable
business and helped geographically diversify the homeowners line of business.
New business referrals began in July 1995 and, on January 1, 1996, Personal
Lines began writing renewal policies. This marketing agreement provides for
limits on Personal Lines' obligation to write new and renewal business in
certain catastrophe-prone areas.

          TAP believes that its focus on service, including prompt and efficient
claims handling, a high level of automation and development of long-term
relationships with 



individual agents gives it a competitive advantage in the Personal Lines market.
In addition, TAP is leveraging its service, claims handling and automation
experience in the expansion of its distribution channels through its PFS and
affinity marketing initiatives.

     Pricing and Underwriting

          Pricing for personal automobile insurance is driven by changes in the
relative frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of automobile repairs,
medical care and litigation of liability claims. As a result, the profitability
of the business is largely dependent on promptly identifying and rectifying
disparities between premium levels and expected claim costs, and obtaining
approval of the state regulatory authorities for indicated rate increases.
Premiums charged for physical damage coverage reflect insured car values and,
accordingly, premium levels are somewhat related to the volume of new car sales.

          Pricing in the homeowners business is also driven by changes in the
frequency of claims and by inflation in building supplies, labor costs and
household possessions. Most homeowners policies offer (but do not require)
automatic increases in coverage to reflect growth in replacement costs and
property values. In addition to the normal risks associated with any multiple
peril coverage, the profitability and pricing of homeowners insurance is
affected by the incidence of natural disasters, particularly hurricanes, winter
storms, earthquakes and tornadoes. The high level of catastrophe losses in
recent years has resulted in a reduced availability of homeowners insurance and
has led to higher prices for homeowners policies in some markets. In order to
reduce its exposure to catastrophe losses, TAP has limited the writing of new
homeowners business and selectively non-renewed existing homeowners business in
certain markets, tightened underwriting standards and implemented price
increases in certain hurricane-prone areas, subject to restrictions imposed by
insurance regulatory authorities. In California, TAP has introduced an
endorsement that reduces its exposure to catastrophic earthquake claims by
increasing the deductible and limiting other policy coverages in the event of an
earthquake loss. TAP uses computer modeling techniques to assess its level of
exposure to loss in catastrophe-prone areas. Changes to methods of marketing and
underwriting in coastal areas of Florida and New York and in California are
subject to state-imposed restrictions, the general effect of which is to make it
more difficult for an insurer to reduce exposures.

          Insurers writing property-casualty policies are generally unable to
increase rates until some time after the costs associated with coverage have
increased, primarily as a result of state insurance rate regulation laws. The
pace at which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or to
increased costs depends, in part, on whether the applicable rate regulation law
requires prior approval of a rate increase or notification to the regulator
either before or after a rate increase is imposed. In states having prior
approval laws, a rate must be approved by the regulator before it may be used by
the insurer. In states having "file-and-use" laws, the insurer must file the
rate with the regulator, but does not need to wait for approval before using it.
A "use-and-file" law requires an insurer to file rates within a certain period
of time 



after the insurer begins using the new rate. Approximately one-half of
the states, including New York and Pennsylvania, require prior approval of rate
increases.

          Underwriting of Personal Lines products is conducted primarily by
independent agents. Agents underwrite Personal Lines policies under strict
underwriting guidelines established and monitored by TAP. Each agent is assigned
to a specific employee of TAP or team of employees responsible for working with
the agent on business plan development, marketing, and overall growth and
profitability. TAP uses agency level management information to analyze and
understand results and to identify problems and opportunities.

     Geographic Distribution

          The following table shows the distribution of Personal Lines' direct
written premiums for the states that accounted for the majority of combined
premium volume for the year ended December 31, 1996:

                  State                        % of Total
                  -----                        ----------
                  New York                        23.2%
                  Pennsylvania                     9.0
                  New Jersey                       8.6
                  Florida                          8.5
                  Texas                            8.3
                  Massachusetts                    6.9
                  Connecticut                      6.1
                  Virginia                         3.8
                  All others (1)                  25.6
                                                ------
                  Total                          100.0%
                                                ======

- ----------
(1)  No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total combined
     direct written premiums written in 1996 by TAP.

Claims Administration

          TAP employs approximately 8,900 claims employees located throughout
the United States. These employees include telephone and road adjusters,
appraisers, litigation specialists, staff attorneys, regional and home office
management and support staff. TAP handles over 90% of its claims internally and
employs external adjusters primarily where geographic location makes it
impractical to use TAP's own adjusters. TAP has an investigative unit that
handles claims that TAP suspects may be fraudulent. TAP also employs a staff of
lawyers who are responsible for the management of TAP's claims litigation. TAP's



claims handlers include professionals with the technical expertise necessary to
deal with more complex coverage, liability and damage issues.

          In its handling of claims, TAP strives to balance customer
expectations of service with its business objectives of effectively managing
loss exposure and controlling claims expense. In an effort to resolve claims
efficiently, TAP matches claims settlement authority to the ability of its
claims personnel and matches its in-house expertise with the issues involved in
the claim. TAP's workers' compensation claim adjudication process is being
re-engineered to encompass a higher level of nursing/medical intervention, a
more effective use of preferred provider networks to better manage medical and
lost-time claims, and a renewed emphasis on prompt and thorough investigations.

          TAP's new Personal Lines claims workstation implemented in 1995 and
workers' compensation claim workstation implemented in 1994 have improved the
speed and quality of both Personal Lines and Commercial Lines claims service,
and have helped loss payout performance. Use of technology such as VRUs (voice
response units) has lowered the cost of settling claims and shortened the time
to claim payment. The claim department also provides automated feedback from
claim handlers to underwriters to help with risk assessment and accurate pricing
information. Since the date of the Acquisition, significant progress has been
made in converting all of TAP's claims processing to this technology. In
Personal Lines, all new automobile and homeowners notices are now entered into
TAP's claims database through the new workstation which provides access to data
for both Aetna P&C and Travelers P&C sourced customers through one professional
claim workstation. In Commercial Lines workers' compensation, all first reports
of injury have been converted to the new telephone reporting system and a
conversion of all open claims to utilize the new workstation is under way.

          The home office claims department periodically conducts internal file
reviews of claims offices to monitor adherence to claims policies and
procedures, the adequacy of case reserves, claims loss control, claims expense
control, productivity and service standards. Regional claims management
periodically audits sample files of claims representatives as part of their
supervisory process.

          Environmental, asbestos and cumulative injury claims are segregated
from other claims and are handled separately by TAP's Special Liability Group, a
special unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering
professionals. See "-- Environmental, Asbestos and Cumulative Injury Claims."

Reserves

          Property and casualty claim reserves are established to account for
the estimated ultimate costs of claims and claim adjustment expenses for claims
that have been reported but not yet settled and claims that have been incurred
but not reported. TAP establishes reserves by line of business, coverage and
year.



          The process of estimating claim reserves is imprecise due to a number
of variables. These variables are affected by both internal and external events
such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and
legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable,
particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant
reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is
actually reported to the insurer. TAP continually refines reserve estimates in a
regular ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported
and settled. TAP reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations
in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, TAP
takes into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and
subrogation.

          TAP derives estimates for unreported claims and development on
reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of
claims development by accident year for each line of business and market
segment. Similarly, TAP derives estimates of unpaid claim adjustment expenses
principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the
relationship of claim adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business
and market segment. For a description of TAP's reserving methods for
environmental and asbestos claims, see "-- Environmental, Asbestos and
Cumulative Injury Claims."

          Discounting. The liability for losses for certain long-term disability
payments under workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess
insurance has been discounted using a maximum interest rate of 5%. At December
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 the combined amounts of discount for TAP were $1.012
billion, $1.206 billion and $1.120 billion, respectively.

          For a reconciliation of beginning and ending property and casualty
insurance claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of the Company for each
of the last three years, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

          The following table sets forth the year-end reserves from 1986 through
1996 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented on a combined basis
for Travelers P&C and Aetna P&C. The data in the table are presented in
accordance with reporting requirements of the Commission. Care must be taken to
avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with such information or familiar
with other data commonly reported by the insurance industry. The following data
is not accident year data, but rather a display of 1986-1996 year-end reserves
and the subsequent changes in those reserves.

          For instance, the "cumulative deficiency or redundancy" shown in the
following table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original
estimates of reserves as of that year-end have changed in subsequent years.
Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at
that year-end and such amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the
original reserves at the end of 1986 included $4 million for a loss that is
finally settled in 1996 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of
the actual 



settlement of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be
included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 1986-1995 shown in
the following table.

          Certain factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative
deficiency or redundancy shown in the following table. For example, a
substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years
1986-1996 arises from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1970s
involving liability exposures such as environmental, asbestos and cumulative
injury claims. In the post-1984 period, TAP has developed more stringent
underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or
terminated the writing of such risks. See "-- Environmental, Asbestos and
Cumulative Injury Claims." General conditions and trends that have affected the
development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the
future.

          Other factors that affect the data in the following table include the
discounting of workers' compensation reserves and the use of retrospectively
rated insurance policies. To the extent permitted under applicable accounting
practices, workers' compensation reserves are discounted to reflect the time
value of money, due to the relatively long time period over which these claims
are to be paid. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on
these workers' compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest
rates. Also, a significant portion of National Accounts business is underwritten
with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss
experience is primarily borne by the insured. Increases in loss experience
result in an increase in reserves, and an offsetting increase in amounts
recoverable from insureds. These amounts recoverable mitigate the impact of the
cumulative deficiencies but are not reflected in the following table.
Retrospective rating is particularly significant for National Accounts business
for workers' compensation, and to a lesser extent in general liability and
commercial automobile coverages. This mechanism affords TAP a significant
financial protection against adverse development on a large block of net
reserves.

          Because of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop
meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in
loss reserves from the data in the following table.

          The differences between the reserves for claims and claim adjustment
expenses shown in the following table, which is prepared in accordance with
GAAP, and those reported in the annual statements of TAP filed with state
insurance departments, which are prepared in accordance with statutory
accounting practices, were: $14 million, $(7) million and $(26) million for the
years 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.





Statutory Combined Ratio and Other Information

          The following table sets forth the statutory loss and LAE ratios,
underwriting expense ratios and combined ratios for the periods indicated for
the Company.

          The statutory combined ratio is an industry measurement of the results
of property and casualty insurance underwriting. This ratio is the sum of the
ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to net premiums earned
(the "loss and LAE ratio"), the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred to net
premiums written (the "underwriting expense ratio") and, where applicable, the
ratio of dividends to policyholders to net premiums earned. A combined ratio
under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit; a combined ratio over
100% generally indicates an underwriting loss. However, investment income,
federal income taxes and other non-underwriting income (e.g., service fee
income) or expenses are not reflected in the combined ratio. The profitability
of property and casualty insurance



companies depends on income from underwriting, investment and service
operations. Lines of business where claims are paid out over a longer period of
time, such as workers' compensation, also provide investment income over a
longer period of time and therefore can be profitable at higher combined ratios
than lines where claims are paid out over a shorter period. Insurers with a high
proportion of long-tail policies will generally have higher combined ratios than
insurers with more short-tail business.

          The ratios shown in the table below are computed based upon statutory
accounting practices, not GAAP. For information on GAAP combined ratios, see
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations."

                            Statutory Combined Ratios

                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                        ------------------------------------
                                          1996          1995          1994
                                        --------      --------      --------
Commercial Lines:
   Loss and LAE ratio                     95.6%         80.6%        100.0%
   Underwriting expense ratio             32.5          24.4          24.7
   Combined ratio before
      policyholder dividends             128.1 (1)     105.0         124.7 (2)
   Combined ratio                        128.8         106.3         123.0
Personal Lines:
   Loss and LAE ratio                     68.7          74.5          71.0
   Underwriting expense ratio             28.9          29.9          29.4
   Combined ratio                         97.6 (3)     104.4         100.4
Total:
   Loss and LAE ratio                     85.2          78.2          88.7
   Underwriting expense ratio             31.2          26.4          26.5
   Combined ratio before
      policyholder dividends             116.4         104.6         115.2
   Combined ratio                        116.9         105.4         114.1

- ----------
(1)  Includes the effect of charges associated with the Acquisition and also
     includes statutory charges made to conform accounting policies and TAP
     strategies in connection with the Acquisition (but not for GAAP reporting
     purposes due to purchase accounting). The combined ratio excluding such
     charges was 109.3%.
(2)  Includes statutory reserve increases for environmental claims and a
     reduction of ceded reinsurance balance amounting to $225 million by TAP.
     The combined ratio excluding this item was 114.2%.
(3)  Includes the effect of TAP's review of reserves associated with the
     Acquisition. The combined ratio excluding this item was 100.1%.



     The following table sets forth information regarding the premium to surplus
ratios of TAP. For informational purposes only, the table includes Aetna P&C for
all periods presented.

           Schedule of Premium to Surplus Ratios (Statutory Basis)(1)

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                 1996        1995        1994
                                               --------    --------    ---------
                                                      (Dollars in millions)

Net written premiums                            $7,343      $7,701       $7,981
Capital and surplus                              5,423       5,231        4,659
Ratio of net written premiums to capital
   and surplus                                    1.35x       1.47x        1.71x

- ----------
(1)  Including accident and health business.

Environmental, Asbestos and Cumulative Injury Claims

          Environmental, asbestos and cumulative injury claims are segregated
from other claims and are handled separately by TAP's Special Liability Group, a
special unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering
professionals.

     Environmental Claims

          As a result of various state and federal regulatory efforts aimed at
environmental remediation, the insurance industry has been, and continues to be,
involved in extensive litigation involving policy coverage and liability issues.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
("CERCLA") was first enacted in 1980, and significantly expanded in 1984. CERCLA
enables private parties and the federal and state governments to take action
with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances and to
recover their response costs from certain liable parties or such parties may be
ordered to undertake remedial action directly. Liability under CERCLA may be
joint and several with other responsible persons. In addition to the regulatory
pressures, TAP believes that certain court decisions have expanded insurance
coverage beyond the original intent of the insurers and insureds, frequently
involving policies that were issued prior to the mid-1970s. The results of court
decisions affecting the industry's coverage positions continue to be
inconsistent. Accordingly, the ultimate responsibility and liability for
environmental remediation costs remain uncertain.

          TAP continues to receive claims alleging liability exposures arising
out of insureds' alleged disposition of toxic substances. These claims when
submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from
the insured and TAP does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in
those few claims which indicated such a monetary 



amount. TAP's review and investigation of environmental claims includes an
assessment of the probable liability, available coverage, judicial
interpretations and historical value of similar claims. In addition, the unique
facts presented in each claim are evaluated individually and collectively. Due
consideration is given to the many variables presented in each claim, such as:
the nature of the alleged activities of the insured at each site; the
allegations of environmental damage at each site; the number of sites; the total
number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of
environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at a site; the nature of
government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of
each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between TAP and the
insured; the identification of other insurers; the potential coverage available,
if any; the number of years of coverage, if any; the obligation to provide a
defense to insureds, if any; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction.

          TAP's reserves for environmental claims are not established on a
claim-by-claim basis. An aggregate bulk reserve is carried for all of TAP's
environmental claims that are in the dispute process, until the dispute is
resolved. This bulk reserve is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate
volume of in-process environmental claims and TAP's experience in resolving such
claims. Environmental loss and loss expense reserves of TAP at December 31, 1996
were $1.242 billion, net of reinsurance of $127 million. Approximately 12% of
such loss and loss expense reserves (i.e., approximately $146 million) were case
reserves for resolved claims. The balance, approximately 88% of the net
aggregate reserve (i.e., approximately $1.096 billion), is carried in a bulk
reserve and includes incurred but not yet reported environmental claims for
which TAP has not received any specific claims.

          The duration of TAP's investigation and review of such claims and the
extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the
value of the claim to TAP, varies significantly and is dependent upon a number
of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of
the insured in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or
claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the insured and TAP and
the willingness of the insured and TAP to negotiate, if appropriate, a
resolution of any dispute between them pertaining to such claims. Since the
foregoing factors vary from claim to claim and insured by insured, TAP cannot
provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However,
based upon TAP's experience in resolving such claims, the duration may vary from
months to several years.

          The property and casualty insurance industry does not have a standard
method of calculating claim activity for environmental losses. Generally for
environmental claims, Travelers P&C establishes a claim file for each insured on
a per site, per claimant basis. If there is more than one claimant such as a
federal and a state agency, this method will result in two claims being set up
for a policyholder at that one site. Similarly, if one hundred claimants file a
lawsuit against ten policyholders alleging injury as a result of the discharge
of wastes or pollutants, one thousand claims would be established. Travelers P&C
adheres to this method 



of calculating claim activity on all environmental-related claims, whether such
claims are tendered on primary, excess or umbrella policies.

          As of December 31, 1996, Travelers P&C had approximately 30,800
pending environmental-related claims tendered by 664 active policyholders. The
pending environmental-related claims represent federal or state EPA-type claims
as well as plaintiffs' claims alleging bodily injury and property damage due to
the discharge of waste or pollutants. In 1996, the pending inventory increased
by approximately 20,000 claims as a result of several lawsuits being filed in
the states of Louisiana and Texas. These lawsuits, filed against one or more
policyholders of Travelers P&C, allege that the plaintiffs were injured or
damaged as a result of either alleged waste disposal or the alleged release of
deleterious substances from ongoing business operations which have taken place
near the plaintiffs' residences. Claims of this nature have historically been
considered in the level of TAP's environmental reserves. To date, in total
Travelers P&C has resolved environmental-related claims on behalf of 1,628
policyholders.

          TAP is preparing a claims system conversion which when completed will
apply Travelers P&C's method of establishing claim files to Aetna P&C's
environmental-related claims. TAP anticipates that this process should be
completed in 1997. As of December 31, 1996, Aetna P&C had pending
environmental-related claims tendered by approximately 948 active policyholders.
Approximately 129 of these 948 active policyholders are also included in the 664
active Travelers P&C policyholders. Aetna P&C's policyholders, like those of
Travelers P&C, have tendered both EPA-type claims and individual claims alleging
injury or damage as a result of the discharge of wastes or pollutants. To date,
Aetna P&C has resolved environmental-related claims on behalf of 1,870
policyholders.

          To date, TAP generally has been successful in resolving its coverage
litigation and continues to reduce its potential exposure through favorable
settlements with certain insureds. These settlement agreements with certain
insureds are based on the variables presented in each piece of coverage
litigation. Generally the settlement dollars paid in disputed coverage claims
are a percentage of the total coverage sought by such insureds. In addition,
with respect to settlement of many of the environmental claims, the agreement
between TAP and the insured extinguishes any obligation TAP may have under any
policy issued to the insured for future environmental liabilities risks. This
form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy-back" of policies for
future environmental liability risks. Additional provisions of these agreements
include the appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect TAP.
TAP's general purpose in executing such agreements is to reduce its potential
environmental exposure and eliminate both the risks presented by coverage
litigation with the insured and the cost of such litigation.



     Asbestos Claims

          In the area of asbestos claims, TAP believes that the property and
casualty insurance industry has suffered from judicial interpretations that have
attempted to maximize insurance availability from both a coverage and liability
standpoint far beyond the intent of the contracting parties. These policies
generally were issued prior to the 1980s. TAP continues to receive asbestos
claims alleging insureds' liability from claimants' asbestos-related injuries.
These claims, when submitted, rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought
by the claimant from the insured and TAP does not keep track of the monetary
amount being sought in those few claims which indicated such a monetary amount.
Originally the cases involved mainly plant workers and traditional asbestos
manufacturers and distributors. However, in the mid-1980s, a new group of
plaintiffs, whose exposure to asbestos was less direct and whose injuries were
often speculative, began to file lawsuits in increasing numbers against the
traditional defendants as well as peripheral defendants who had produced
products that may have contained small amounts of some form of encapsulated
asbestos. These claims continue to arise and on an individual basis generally
involve smaller companies with smaller limits of potential coverage.

          Also, there has emerged a group of non-product claims by plaintiffs,
mostly independent labor union workers, mainly against companies, alleging
exposure to asbestos while working at these companies' premises. In addition,
various insurers, including TAP, remain defendants in an action brought in
Philadelphia regarding potential consolidation and resolution of future asbestos
bodily injury claims.

          In summary, various classes of asbestos defendants, such as major
product manufacturers, peripheral and regional product defendants as well as
premises owners, are tendering asbestos-related claims to the industry. Because
each insured presents different liability and coverage issues, TAP evaluates
those issues on an insured-by-insured basis.

          TAP's evaluations have not resulted in any meaningful data from which
an average asbestos defense or indemnity payment may be determined. The varying
defense and indemnity payments made by TAP on behalf of its insureds have also
precluded TAP from deriving any meaningful data by which it can predict whether
its defense and indemnity payments for asbestos claims (on average or in the
aggregate) will remain the same or change in the future. Based upon TAP's
experience with asbestos claims, the duration period of an asbestos claim from
the date of submission to resolution is approximately two years.

          At December 31, 1996, asbestos claims reserves of TAP were $1.073
billion, net of reinsurance of $370 million. Approximately 25% of the net
aggregate reserve (i.e., approximately $263 million) is for pending asbestos
claims. The balance, approximately 75% (i.e., approximately $810 million), of
the net asbestos reserves represents incurred but not yet reported losses for
which TAP has not received any specific claims.



     Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Environmental and Asbestos Reserves

          It is difficult to estimate the reserves for environmental and
asbestos-related claims due to the vagaries of court coverage decisions,
plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability, the risks inherent in major
litigation and other uncertainties. Conventional actuarial techniques are not
used to estimate such reserves.

          For environmental claims, TAP estimates its financial exposure and
establishes reserves based upon an analysis of its historical claim experience
and the facts of the individual underlying claims. The unique facts presented in
each claim are evaluated individually and collectively. Due consideration is
given to the many variables presented in each claim, as discussed above.

          The following factors are evaluated in projecting the ultimate reserve
for asbestos-related claims: available insurance coverage; limits and
deductibles; an analysis of each policyholder's potential liability;
jurisdictional involvement; past and projected future claim activity; past
settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense;
potential role of other insurance, and applicable coverage defenses, if any.
Once the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and allocated claim adjustment
expense is determined for a policyholder by policy year, a ceded projection is
calculated based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance. In
addition, a similar review is conducted for asbestos property damage claims.
However, due to the relatively minor claim volume, these reserves have remained
at a constant level.

          As a result of these processes and procedures, the reserves carried
for environmental and asbestos claims at December 31, 1996 are the Company's
best estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses based upon known
facts and current law. However, the environment surrounding the final resolution
of these claims continues to change. Currently, it is not possible to predict
changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future
development of asbestos and environmental claims. Such development will be
affected by future court decisions and interpretations and changes in Superfund
and other legislation. Because of these future unknowns, additional liabilities
may arise for amounts in excess of the current reserves. These additional
amounts, or a range of these additional amounts, cannot now be reasonably
estimated, and could result in a liability exceeding reserves by an amount that
would be material to the Company's operating results in a future period.
However, the Company believes that it is not likely that these claims will have
a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity.

     Cumulative Injury Other Than Asbestos

          Cumulative injury other than asbestos ("CIOTA") claims are generally
submitted to TAP under general liability policies and often involve an
allegation by a claimant against an insured that the claimant has suffered
injuries as a result of long-term or continuous exposure 



to potentially harmful products or substances. Such potentially harmful products
or substances include, but are not limited to, lead paint, pesticides,
pharmaceutical products, silicone-based personal products, solvents and other
deleterious substances.

          Due to claimants' allegations of long-term bodily injury in CIOTA
claims, numerous complex issues regarding such claims are presented. The
claimants' theories of liability must be evaluated, evidence pertaining to a
causal link between injury and exposure to a substance must be reviewed, the
potential role of other causes of injury must be analyzed, the liability of
other defendants must be explored, and assessment of a claimant's damages must
be made and the law of the jurisdiction must be applied. In addition, TAP must
review the number of policies issued by TAP to the insured and whether such
policies are triggered by the allegations, the terms and limits of liability of
such policies, the obligations of other insurers to respond to the claim, and
the applicable law in each jurisdiction.

          To the extent disputes exist between TAP and a policyholder regarding
the coverage available for CIOTA claims, TAP resolves the disputes, where
feasible, through settlements with the policyholder or through coverage
litigation. Generally, the terms of a settlement agreement set forth the nature
of TAP's participation in resolving CIOTA claims, the scope of coverage to be
provided by TAP and contain the appropriate indemnities and hold harmless
provisions to protect TAP. These settlements generally eliminate uncertainties
for TAP regarding the risks extinguished, including the risk that losses would
be greater than anticipated due to evolving theories of tort liability or
unfavorable coverage determinations. TAP's approach also has the effect of
determining losses at a date earlier than would have occurred in the absence of
such settlement agreements. On the other hand, in cases where future
developments are favorable to insurers, this approach could have the effect of
resolving claims for amounts in excess of those that would ultimately have been
paid had the claims not been settled in this manner. No inference should be
drawn that because of TAP's method of dealing with CIOTA claims, its reserves
for such claims are more conservatively stated than those of other insurers.

          Aetna P&C did not distinguish CIOTA from other general liability
claims or treat CIOTA claims as a special class of claims. In addition, there
were substantial differences in claim approach and resolution between TAP and
Aetna P&C regarding CIOTA claims.

          During the second quarter, TAP completed its review of Aetna P&C's
exposure to CIOTA claims in order to determine an appropriate level of reserves
using TAP's approach as described above. Based on the results of that review,
TAP's general liability insurance reserves were increased $360 million, net of
reinsurance ($234 million after tax).

          At December 31, 1996, CIOTA claims reserves of TAP were $1.114
billion, net of reinsurance of $446 million. Approximately 19% of the net
aggregate reserve (i.e., approximately $215 million) is for pending CIOTA
claims. The balance, approximately 81% 



(i.e., approximately $899 million), of the net CIOTA reserves represents
incurred but not yet reported losses for which TAP has not received any specific
claims.

Insurance Pools

          Most of TAP's insurance subsidiaries are members of one of three
separate intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangements:
the Travelers Indemnity pool, the Aetna Insurance pool and the Gulf pool. Each
of these insurance pools permits the participating companies to rely on the
capacity of the entire pool rather than on its own capital and surplus. Under
the arrangements of each insurance pool, the members share substantially all
insurance business that is written and prorate the combined premiums, losses and
expenses.

Competition and Regulation

          For a description of competition and regulation relating to the
Company's property and casualty insurance business, see "Insurance Services -
General" at the end of the description of the Life Insurance Services segment.

Investments

          For information on the investment portfolios of the Company's property
and casualty insurance business, see "Insurance Services - General" at the end
of the description of the Life Insurance Services segment.

                             LIFE INSURANCE SERVICES

          The Company's Life Insurance Services segment includes the operations
of The Travelers Insurance Company ("TIC"), which was incorporated in 1863, The
Travelers Life and Annuity Company ("TLAC"), Transport Life Insurance Company
("Transport Life") and its affiliates through the end of the third quarter of
1995 (collectively, "Travelers Life and Annuity") and the Primerica Financial
Services group of companies ("PFS"), including Primerica Life Insurance Company
("Primerica Life"). On September 29, 1995, the Company distributed all of the
outstanding shares of common stock of Transport Holdings Inc., the indirect
parent of Transport Life, to the Company's stockholders. With $43.0 billion of
assets at December 31, 1996, the Company believes that TIC, TLAC and Primerica
Life together constitute one of the largest stock life insurance groups in the
United States as measured by assets. For information concerning the Company's
credit-related insurance businesses, see "Consumer Finance Services."



Primerica Financial Services

     Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

          The business operations of PFS involve the sale of insurance, mutual
funds and other financial products, and consist of an affiliated group of
companies engaged in (i) the underwriting and administration of individual term
life insurance throughout the United States and in Canada and (ii) securities
brokerage, consisting primarily of mutual fund sales. The PFS sales force,
composed of more than 86,000 independent agents, primarily markets term life
insurance of Primerica Life and certain other products of subsidiaries of the
Company, including certain loans offered by the Company's consumer finance
subsidiaries and other products approved by the Company. The domestic PFS sales
force also sells certain property-casualty insurance products of TAP and mutual
funds offered by Smith Barney. Because the great majority of the domestic
licensed sales force works on a part-time basis, a substantial portion of the
sales force is inactive from time to time.

          Primerica Life and its subsidiaries, Primerica Life Insurance Company
of Canada and National Benefit Life Insurance Company ("NBL"), primarily offer
individual term life insurance. NBL provides statutory disability benefits in
New York, as well as direct response student term life insurance nationwide.
Primerica Life and its subsidiaries together are licensed to sell and market
term life insurance in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Canada, Puerto
Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands.

          For information concerning PFS Investments Inc. ("PFS Investments"),
see "-- Mutual Funds and Asset Management."

          Premium revenues, net of reinsurance, for PFS for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 were $1.030 billion, $1.012 billion and $962
million, respectively. The increase in premium revenues in recent years is
primarily attributable to the retention of in force business and the increase in
average premium per new policy sold. See "Insurance Services - General --
Reinsurance" for a discussion of reinsurance.



     Life Insurance in Force

          The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
life insurance in force for Primerica Life and subsidiaries, and related
statistical data for 1994-1996.

                    (in millions of dollars, except as noted)

                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                         --------------------------------------
                                            1996           1995           1994
                                            ----           ----           ----
In force beginning of year               $  348,169    $  334,972    $  317,403

Additions                                    52,039        53,045        57,389

Terminations(1)                            (40,330)      (39,848)       (39,820)
                                          ---------      --------       --------

In force end of year                     $  359,878    $   348,169   $  334,972
                                          =========     ==========    =========

The amounts in force at end of
   year are before reinsurance ceded
      in the following amounts           $  134,330     $  117,647   $   94,930
                                          =========      =========    =========

At end of year:
   Number of policies in force
       PFS                                2,141,800      2,115,600    2,075,600
       NBL other individual lines           418,437        398,988      396,717

   Average size of policy
     in force (in dollars)
      PFS                                $  164,694     $  161,125   $  157,739
      NBL other individual lines             17,055         18,154       19,078

- ----------
(1)  Includes terminations due to death, surrenders and lapses.

          AIDS-related claims, net of reinsurance, as a percentage of total net
life claims paid by Primerica Life in 1996, 1995 and 1994, were 5.9%, 7.1% and
7.1%, respectively. Management believes that current pricing and reserves make
adequate provision for AIDS-related claim experience.

     Mutual Funds and Asset Management

          PFS Investments is a registered broker-dealer through which the PFS
sales force markets mutual funds and variable annuities. For the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, PFS' total mutual fund sales were $2.327
billion, $1.551 billion and $1.622 billion, respectively. The PFS sales force
began marketing Smith Barney mutual funds through a 



separate distribution arrangement with PFS Distributors, Inc. in mid-1995 and in
March 1996 began selling The Concert Series-SM-. The Concert Series-SM- is a
group of mutual funds that invests in various Smith Barney mutual funds instead
of directly in stocks, bonds or other securities. Sales of Smith Barney mutual
funds accounted for approximately 24% and 2%, respectively, of PFS' total mutual
fund sales in 1996 and 1995. At December 31, 1996, approximately 27,500
independent agent members of the PFS sales force (including approximately 2,600
licensed in Canada only) were also independent registered securities
representatives of PFS Investments and/or PFSL Investments Canada Ltd.

          PFS Investments is also the exclusive retail distributor of the Common
Sense-R- Trust mutual funds,(1) and certain of the Company's subsidiaries
provide underwriting, transfer agency and custodial services to these funds.
Sales of shares of the Common Sense-R- Trust funds accounted for approximately
27%, 39% and 42%, respectively, of total mutual funds sales by PFS for 1996,
1995 and 1994. In December 1994, the Company sold American Capital Management &
Research, Inc., a mutual fund company and the co-sponsor of the Common Sense-R-
Trust funds, to The Van Kampen Merritt Companies, Inc. ("VKM") and purchased an
equity interest in VKM's parent company. In October 1996, VKM's parent was sold,
and in connection with such sale, the Company sold its equity interest in that
company.

Travelers Life and Annuity

     Principal Products

          Travelers Life and Annuity offers fixed and variable deferred
annuities, payout annuities and term, universal and variable life and long-term
care insurance to individuals and small businesses. It also provides group
pension products, including guaranteed investment contracts, and group annuities
to employer-sponsored retirement and savings plans. Travelers Life and Annuity
views market specialization and distribution diversification as critical
components of profitability. It has updated its individual product portfolio to
include a range of competitively priced fixed and variable annuity, term,
universal and variable life and long-term care insurance products for its
customers.

          Individual accumulation fixed and variable annuities, group annuities
and pension plan products are used for retirement funding purposes. Variable
annuities permit policyholders to direct retirement funds into a number of
separate accounts which offer various investment options. Individual payout
annuities are used for structuring settlements of certain indemnity claims and
making other payments to policyholders over a period of time.

          Guaranteed investment contracts, which provide a guaranteed return on
investment, continue to be a popular investment choice for employer-sponsored
retirement and savings

- ----------
(1)  Common Sense is a registered trademark of Van Kampen/American Capital Asset
     Management, Inc. ("VK/ACAM").



plans. Group annuities purchased by employer sponsored plans fulfill retirement
obligations to individual employees.

          Individual life insurance provides protection against financial loss
due to death. Life insurance is also used to meet estate, business planning and
retirement needs.

          Long-term care insurance provides income and asset protection against
the high costs of care associated with home health, assisted living and nursing
home care. Travelers Life and Annuity ceased writing disability income insurance
in the first quarter of 1995.

          The following table sets forth written premiums, net of reinsurance,
and deposits for the Travelers Life and Annuity unit.

                              Premiums and Deposits
                                  (in millions)

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                  ---------------------------
                                                    1996      1995       1994
                                                    ----      ----       ----
Premiums
  Individual life                                  $  122    $  124    $  124
  Long-term care                                      128        88        61
  Individual accident and health(1)                    24       200       273
  Payout annuities                                     76        90        92
                                                    -----     -----     -----
   Total premiums                                     350       502       550
                                                    -----     -----     -----
Deposits
  Universal life insurance                            169       149       162
  Annuities
   Individual fixed accumulation                      621       692       569
   Individual variable accumulation(2)              1,370       956       693
   Individual payout                                   44        38        26
  Guaranteed investment contracts(3)                  764       681       347
  Group separate accounts and managed funds(4)        276       362       747
  Other fixed funds                                   186       115       119
  Corporate-owned life insurance(5)                    30        91         -
                                                    -----     -----     -----
   Total deposits                                   3,460     3,084     2,663
                                                    -----     -----     -----
   Total premiums and deposits                     $3,810    $3,586    $3,213
                                                    =====     =====     =====


- ----------
(1)  The declines in 1995 and 1996 reflect the Company's distribution of
     Transport Holdings Inc., the indirect parent of Transport Life Insurance
     Company, to the Company's stockholders in September 1995.
(2)  The increase in individual variable accumulation deposits reflects
     successful introduction of variable annuities in the Smith Barney
     distribution network and other distribution initiatives.
(3)  In 1994, TIC adopted a more selective approach to issuing new contracts.
     The 1996 and 1995 increases reflect successful implementation of the new
     strategy with both existing and new customers, and also was helped by
     ratings upgrades during those years.
(4)  The 1996, 1995 and 1994 deposits include $146 million, $200 million and
     $512 million, respectively, of deposits relating to the transfer in house
     of pension fund assets previously managed externally.



(5)  TIC is not currently marketing corporate owned life insurance. 1996 and
     1995 deposits are attributable to contracts previously issued by the
     Company's Managed Care and Employee Benefits Operations ("MCEBO") (which
     were sold in 1995) and transferred to Travelers Life and Annuity effective
     January 1, 1995. For 1994, the premiums and deposits on this business were
     $187 million and were reported in the Company's MCEBO unit.

          For information about reinsurance, see "Insurance Services - General
- -- Reinsurance."

     Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

          TIC is licensed to sell and market its individual products in all 50
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Bahamas and the U.S.
and British Virgin Islands. TLAC is licensed to sell and market life and annuity
products in 43 states and the District of Columbia.

          Individual products are primarily marketed through The Copeland
Companies ("Copeland"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of TIC, Smith Barney
Financial Consultants and a core group of approximately 500 independent
agencies. Copeland is a captive sales organization of personal retirement
planning specialists focused primarily on the qualified periodic deferred
annuity marketplace, and accounted for approximately 39% of total individual
deferred annuity production in 1996 and 1995. Smith Barney's Financial
Consultants distribute Travelers Life and Annuity's non-qualified deferred
annuities and individual life and long-term care products. Smith Barney's share
of Travelers Life and Annuity's total individual deferred annuity production
increased from 33% in 1995 to 38% in 1996. The core group of over 500
professional life insurance agencies sold the majority of the individual life
and long term care business in 1996 and 1995 and accounted for 23% and 27%,
respectively, of individual annuity premiums and deposits. Tower Square
Securities, Inc. ("Tower Square Securities"), a wholly owned subsidiary of TIC,
is an introducing broker-dealer offering a full line of brokerage services.
Tower Square Securities facilitates the sale of individual variable life and
annuity insurance products by the independent agents of TIC.

          TIC has also begun expanding the sale of its individual life and
long-term care products through other distribution networks. To accomplish this,
TIC has entered into strategic alliances with a select number of established
producers. In 1996, TIC acquired Travelers Net Plus, a long-term care specialty
distributor that markets primarily through targeted direct mailing. TIC also
formed TowerMark, a joint venture focused on recruiting and supporting agencies
serving high-end estate planning customers.

          Group pension products and annuities are marketed by Travelers Life
and Annuity's salaried staff directly to plan sponsors and are also placed
through independent consultants and investment advisers. The major factors
affecting the pricing of these contracts are the economics of the capital
markets, primarily the interest rate environment, the availability of
appropriate investments and surplus required to support this business. The
pricing of products 



and services also reflects charges for expenses, mortality, profit and other
relevant financial factors such as credit risk.

     Life Insurance in Force

          The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
Travelers Life and Annuity life insurance in force and related statistical data
on a statutory basis for 1994 through 1996.

                    (in millions of dollars, except as noted)

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                           ------------------------------------
                                               1996         1995         1994
                                               ----         ----         ----
In force beginning of year                  $ 49,179      $ 48,998     $ 44,909

Additions(1)                                   6,566         6,153        9,265

Terminations(2)                              (5,336)       (5,972)      (5,176)
                                             -------       -------      -------

In force end of year                        $ 50,409      $ 49,179     $ 48,998
                                             =======       =======      =======

The amounts in force at end of
   year are before reinsurance ceded
   in the following amounts                 $ 19,474      $ 16,806     $  6,575
                                             =======       =======      =======

At end of year:
   Number of policies in force(1) (3)        545,682       563,286      606,089
   Average size of policy
     in force (in dollars)                  $ 92,371      $ 87,307     $ 80,843

- ----------
(1)  The 1995 decline reflects the de-emphasis of sales of certain lower-margin
     life insurance products.
(2)  Includes terminations due to death, surrenders and lapses. 1995
     terminations also include policy terminations attributable to the
     distribution of Transport Holdings Inc. to the Company's stockholders.
(3)  The decline in 1996 and 1995 reflects the gradual run-off of old whole life
     policies written several years ago at relatively low levels of per policy
     insurance coverage. This was particularly offset by the sale of term and
     universal life policies with significantly higher levels of insurance
     coverage.

     Insurance Reserves and Contractholder Funds

          As life, long-term care and disability income insurance and annuity
premiums are received, Travelers Life and Annuity establishes policy benefit
reserves that reflect the present value of expected future obligations, net of
the present value of expected future net premiums. These reserves generally
reflect long-term fixed obligations to policyholders and are based on
assumptions as to interest rates, future mortality, morbidity, persistency and
expenses, with provision for adverse deviation. Policy benefit reserves, which
give appropriate recognition to reinsurance, are established based on factors
derived from past experience.



          Contractholder funds arise from the issuance of individual life
contracts that include an identifiable investment component, individual deferred
annuities and certain individual payout annuity contracts. Contractholder funds
generally are equal to deposits received and interest credited less withdrawals,
mortality charges and administrative expenses. Contractholder funds also include
receipts from the issuance of pension investment contracts.

          AIDS-related claims paid by Travelers Life and Annuity in 1996, 1995
and 1994 were 3.4%, 1.6% and 2.1%, respectively, as a percentage of total life
claims paid, and 0.4%, 0.3% and 1.5%, respectively, as a percentage of total
health claims paid. Management believes that current pricing and reserves make
adequate provision for AIDS-related claim experience.

Competition and Regulation

          For a description of competition and regulation relating to the
Company's life insurance businesses, see "Insurance Services - General."

Investments

          For information on the investment portfolios of the Company's life
insurance businesses, see "Insurance Services - General."

                          INSURANCE SERVICES - GENERAL

Ratings

          Insurance companies are rated by rating agencies to provide both
industry participants and insurance consumers with meaningful information on
specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial
stability and a strong ability to pay claims. These ratings are based upon
factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward protection of
investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation
to buy, hold or sell any security and may be revised or withdrawn at any time.
Ratings focus primarily on the following factors: capital resources, financial
strength, demonstrated management expertise in the insurance business, credit
analysis, systems development, market segment position and growth opportunities,
marketing, sales conduct practices, investment operations, minimum
policyholders' surplus requirements and capital sufficiency to meet projected
growth, as well as access to such traditional capital as may be necessary to
continue to meet standards for capital adequacy.

          The following table summarizes the current claims-paying and financial
strength ratings of the Company's subsidiaries, including Aetna Casualty and
Surety Company of America ("Aetna C&S of America"), and insurance pools by A.M.
Best, Duff & Phelps 



Corp., Moody's Investor's Service Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Group. The
table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's
rating scale.



- ------------------------------
(1)  The Travelers Indemnity Pool consists of The Travelers Indemnity Company,
     The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The
     Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company
     of America, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Missouri, The Travelers
     Indemnity Company of Illinois, TravCo Insurance Company and The Travelers
     Home and Marine Insurance Company.
(2)  The Aetna Insurance Pool consists of The Aetna Casualty and Surety Company,
     The Standard Fire Insurance Company, Aetna Casualty & Surety Company of
     Illinois, The Farmington Casualty Company, The Automobile Insurance Company
     of Hartford, Connecticut, Aetna Casualty Company of Connecticut, Aetna
     Commercial Insurance Company, Aetna Insurance Company, Aetna Insurance
     Company of Illinois and Aetna Personal Security Insurance Company.
(3)  The Gulf pool consists of Gulf Insurance Company, Gulf Underwriters
     Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, Atlantic Insurance Company and
     Gulf Group Lloyds.

Reinsurance

     The Company reinsures a portion of the risks it underwrites in an effort to
control its exposure to losses, stabilize earnings and protect surplus. The
Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of these risks and pays premiums based
upon the risk and exposure of the policies subject to such reinsurance.
Reinsurance is subject to collectibility in all cases and to aggregate loss
limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the
reinsurance ceded, the Company remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on
all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after allowances for
uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including escrow funds
and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company
monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis, and reviews
its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on
their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product
offerings. For additional information concerning reinsurance, see Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Property and Casualty Insurance

     TAP utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to control its exposure to
large property and casualty losses. TAP utilizes the following types of
reinsurance: (i) facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for
all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy and each policy
reinsured is separately negotiated; (ii) treaty reinsurance, in 




which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and
(iii) catastrophe reinsurance, in which the ceding company is indemnified for an
amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to losses
resulting from a catastrophic event.

     TAP's top five reinsurers, except Lloyd's of London ("Lloyd's") (which is
not rated), are rated "A" or higher by A.M. Best. The ratings and reinsurance
recoverable at December 31, 1996 follow (in millions):

                                   Reinsurance
          Reinsurer                Recoverable     A.M. Best Rating of Reinsurer
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Reinsurance Corporation      $ 483         A++ highest of 15 ratings

American Re-Insurance Company          262         A+  2nd highest of 15 ratings

Executive Risk Indemnity Inc.          193         A   3rd highest of 15 ratings

Employers Reinsurance Corporation       96         A++ highest of 15 ratings

NAC Reinsurance Corporation             75         A   3rd highest of 15 ratings

     As of December 31, 1996, TAP had ceded to Lloyd's and General Reinsurance
Corporation, two reinsurers with which TAP does the most business, approximately
$488 million and $483 million, respectively, of insurance losses and loss
adjustment expenses. In 1996, Lloyd's restructured its operations with respect
to claims for years prior to 1993. The Company is in arbitration with
underwriters at Lloyd's in New York State to enforce reinsurance contracts with
respect to recoveries for certain asbestos claims that constitute a portion of
the total reinsurance recoverable referred to above. The dispute involves the
ability of the Company to aggregate asbestos claims under a market agreement
between Lloyd's and the Company or under the applicable reinsurance treaties.
See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."

     The outcome of the arbitration referred to above is uncertain and the
impact, if any, on collectibility of amounts recoverable by TAP from Lloyd's
cannot be quantified at this time. The Company believes that it is not likely
that the outcome could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating
results, financial condition or liquidity.

     TAP participates in pools with other insurers to provide capacity for
unique and high-valued risks such as exposures related to the aviation and
nuclear power industries. TAP's maximum net exposure to this type of business at
December 31, 1996 was $29 million per risk. For policies written on or after
January 1, 1997, the exposure was reduced to $15 million per risk.

     At December 31, 1996, TAP had $9.7 billion in reinsurance recoverables. Of
this amount, $4.2 billion is for pools and associations which relate primarily
to workers' compensation service business and have the strength of the
participating insurance companies on a joint basis supporting these cessions. Of
the remaining $5.5 billion ceded to reinsurers at December 31, 1996, $497
million was environmental and asbestos-related and the remainder principally
reflects reinsurance in support of ongoing business. In addition, at December
31,




1996, $465 million was collateralized by letters of credit against the asset.
The descriptions below relate to reinsurance arrangements of TAP in effect at
January 1, 1997.

     Net Retention Policy. Currently, for third-party liability, including
automobile no-fault, the reinsurance agreements used by Commercial Accounts,
Select Accounts and Construction limit the net retention to a maximum of $4
million per insured, per occurrence. For Travelers Specialty, the reinsurance
agreements for third-party liability, including professional and healthcare
liability, limit TAP's net retention to a maximum of $4 million per policy, per
occurrence. Gulf Specialty utilizes various reinsurance mechanisms and has
limited its net retention to $4 million for any line of business. For commercial
property insurance, there is a $5 million maximum retention per insured with
100% reinsurance coverage for risks with higher limits. The reinsurance
agreement in place for workers' compensation policies written by Commercial
Accounts, Select Accounts, Construction, Travelers Specialty and some segments
of Alternative Markets covers 100% of each loss between $2 million and $10
million. For National Accounts, reinsurance arrangements are typically tiered,
or layered, such that only levels of risk acceptable to TAP are retained. The
reinsurance agreement in place for Personal Lines umbrella policies covers 100%
of each loss between $1 million and $5 million. The reinsurance agreements in
place for Personal Lines property policies covers 100% of each loss between $1
million and $6 million. For surety protection, Bond has reinsurance coverage for
95% of up to $50 million of liability in excess of $50 million of liability. In
addition, Bond's accident year results are protected by an aggregate excess of
loss treaty that provides 93.85% of approximately $52 million of reinsurance
coverage in excess of a $119 million retention.

     Catastrophe Reinsurance. TAP utilizes reinsurance agreements with
nonaffiliated reinsurers to control its exposure to losses resulting from one
occurrence. For the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one
occurrence, reinsurance agreements cover 75% of total losses between $250
million and $650 million. For multiple workers' compensation losses arising from
a single occurrence, reinsurance agreements cover 100% of losses between $10
million and $250 million and, for workers' compensation losses caused by
property perils, reinsurance agreements cover 75% of losses between $250 million
and $650 million.

     For commercial property insurance sold through Commercial Accounts, Select
Accounts, Construction and certain National Accounts, 10% of all losses are
reinsured in 1997, subject to an occurrence limitation of $275 million. For
Personal Lines homeowners insurance, in 1997, 25% of losses in states along the
East Coast are reinsured up to a maximum recovery of $180 million per
occurrence. The covered territory of this Homeowners Quota Share includes Maine,
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida
and Washington, D.C.




     Reinsurance Fund

     TAP also participates in the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"),
which is a state-mandated catastrophe reinsurance fund. FHCF is primarily funded
by premiums from insurance companies that write residential property business in
Florida and, if insufficient, assessments on insurance companies that write
other property and casualty insurance, excluding workers' compensation. FHCF's
resources are limited to these contributions and to its borrowing capacity at
the time of a significant catastrophe. There can be no assurance that these
resources will be sufficient to meet the obligations of FHCF.

     The Company's recovery of less than contracted amounts from FHCF could have
a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations in the event of
a significant catastrophe in Florida.

     Life Insurance

     The Company's policy is to obtain reinsurance on individual life policies
for amounts above certain retention limits, which limits vary with age and
underwriting classification. During 1996, most new business was reinsured under
an 80%/20% quota share reinsurance program. Effective January 1, 1997, for
Primerica Life and its subsidiaries new business is reinsured under a 90%/10%
quota share reinsurance program. Retention on life insurance risks after
reinsurance remains up to a maximum of $1.5 million per insured for an ordinary
life risk, depending on the subsidiary involved, the type of policy, the year of
issue and the age of the insured. Other reinsurance arrangements are made from
time to time to cede or assume existing blocks of business.

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Growth

     Property and Casualty Insurance

     The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the
areas of price, service, product offerings, agent relationships and, in the case
of personal property and casualty business, method of distribution (i.e., use of
independent agents, captive agents and/or salaried employees). There are
approximately 3,400 property-casualty insurance companies in the United States.
Of those companies, approximately 800 operate in all or most states and write
the vast majority of the business in the industry while approximately 2,600
offer one or more personal or commercial lines property-casualty products
similar to those marketed by TAP. In addition, an increasing amount of
commercial risks are covered by purchaser self-insurance, large deductibles,
risk-purchasing groups, risk-retention groups and captive companies.

     Commercial Lines. The insurance industry is represented in the commercial
lines marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size. The industry is
comprised of small




local firms, large regional firms and large national firms, as well as
self-insurance programs or captive insurers. Market competition works to set the
price charged for insurance products and the level of service provided within
the insurance regulatory framework. Growth is driven by a company's ability to
provide insurance and services at a price that is reasonable and acceptable to
the customer. In addition, the marketplace is affected by available capacity of
the insurance industry as measured by policyholders' surplus. Surplus expands
and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the
industry. Growth in premium and service business is also measured by a company's
ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers.

     The National Accounts market is highly competitive. Competition is based
primarily on quality and service and, to a lesser extent, on the basis of price.
National Accounts business is generally written through national brokers and
regional agents. The Company also competes for state contracts to provide claims
and policy management services. These contracts, which generally have three-year
terms, are selected by state agencies through a bid process based on quality of
service and price. The Company has emerged as the largest assigned risk plan
service insurer in the industry with approximately 28% of the market in 1996.

     The Commercial Accounts market is highly competitive. Commercial Accounts
business has historically been written through independent agents and brokers,
although some companies use direct writing. Competitors in this market are
primarily national property-casualty insurance companies willing to write most
classes of business using traditional products and pricing and, to a lesser
extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche
programs for specific industry segments. Companies compete on price, product
offerings, response time in policy issuance and claim and loss prevention
services. Additionally, reduced overhead and improved efficiency through
automation and response time to customer needs are key to success in this
market.

     The Construction market has become a focused industry segment for several
large insurance companies. Construction market business is written through
agents and brokers. Insurance companies compete in this market based upon price,
product offering and claims service. The Company utilizes its specialized
underwriters and engineers who have extensive experience and knowledge of the
construction industry to work with agents and brokers to compete effectively in
this market.

     The Select Accounts market is highly competitive and is typically written
through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers. Both
national and regional property-casualty insurance companies compete in the
Select Accounts market which is generally comprised of low risk, "main street"
business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry
practices and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product
offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on price, product
offerings and response time in policy services. The Company has established a
strong




marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided it with
defined underwriting policies, competitive prices and efficient automated
environments.

     The market in which Specialty Accounts competes includes small to mid-sized
niche companies that target certain lines of insurance and larger, multi-line
companies that focus on various segments of the Specialty Accounts market.
Specialty Accounts business is generally written through wholesale brokers and
retail agents and brokers throughout the United States. Gulf Specialty derives a
competitive advantage through its underwriting practices, low expense levels and
broad product offering base. Bond Specialty's reputation for clear, timely
decision-making, underwriting and industry expertise and strong producer and
customer relationships as well as its ability to offer its customers a full
range of financial services products, enable it to compete effectively. Its
ability to cross-sell Bond products to customers of National Accounts,
Commercial Accounts, Select Accounts and through other Travelers Group units
provides further competitive advantages for the Company.

     Personal Lines. Personal lines insurance is written by hundreds of
insurance companies of varying sizes. Although national companies write the
majority of the business, the Company also faces competition from local or
regional companies which often have a competitive advantage because of their
expense structure or because they specialize in providing coverage to particular
risk groups. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors are
price, service, perceived stability of the insurer and name recognition. The
Company also competes for business within each of the independent agencies
representing it, because these agencies also offer policies of competing
independent agency companies. At the agency level, the Company believes that
competition is primarily based on the level of service, including claims
handling, level of automation and the development of long-term relationships
with the individual agents. The Company also competes with insurance companies
that use captive agents or salaried employees to sell their products. Because
these companies generally pay lower commissions than independent agency
companies, they may be able to generate business at a lower cost than the
Company. Due to this expense advantage, the direct writing companies have
gradually expanded their market share in recent years. However, in addition to
its traditional independent agency distribution, Personal Lines is pursuing a
number of initiatives to broaden its distribution of Personal Lines products,
including marketing through the PFS sales force, marketing to affinity groups
and establishing co-marketing arrangements with other insurers.

     Life Insurance

     The Company's life insurance businesses compete with national, regional and
local insurance companies. Competition is based upon price, product design and
services rendered to producers and policyholders. The insurance industry is
extremely competitive, in both price and services, and no single insurer is
dominant. The recent trend of consolidations in the industry has added to the
competitive environment. Travelers Life and Annuity believes that its focus on
market specialization and its diversified distribution network help it to




compete effectively. PFS competes in the market by focusing on supplying an
integrated range of financial products to the middle-income market through a
formalized needs-based sales program.

     In January 1995, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that national banks may sell
annuities. To date, the decision has not had a significant impact on the
Company's annuity sales.

     Savings banks also compete directly in the sale of life insurance in
Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York. Competition for the savings dollar
arises from entities such as banks, investment advisors, mutual funds and other
financial institutions.

     PFS Investments is registered as a broker-dealer with the Commission, and
in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and
Guam. Tower Square Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the
Commission, and in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia.
Similarly, Copeland Equities, Inc., a subsidiary of Copeland, is registered as a
broker-dealer with the Commission, in 49 states and the District of Columbia.
Each is subject to extensive regulation by those agencies and the securities
administrators of those jurisdictions, primarily for the benefits of its
customers, including minimum capital and licensing requirements. PFS Investments
faces competition not only from large financial services firms offering products
and services that cross traditional business boundaries, but also from insurance
companies, including other subsidiaries of the Company, offering life insurance
products with investment features.

Regulation

     State Regulation

     The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact
business. The extent of regulation varies but generally has its source in
statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a
department of insurance of each state. The regulation, supervision and
administration relate, among other things, to the standards of solvency that
must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the
nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the
size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions
for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for
the benefit of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of
market conduct including underwriting and claims practices. In addition, many
states have enacted variations of competitive rate-making laws which allow
insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without
having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department. State
insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of
insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating
to the financial condition of companies and other matters.




     At the present time, the Company's insurance subsidiaries are collectively
licensed to transact insurance business in all states, the District of Columbia,
Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as well as Canada, the United
Kingdom and the Northern Mariana Islands.

     Although the Company is not regulated as an insurance company, it is the
owner of the capital stock of its insurance subsidiaries and as such is subject
to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of
each of the states of domicile of its insurance subsidiaries. All holding
company statutes, as well as certain other laws, require disclosure and, in some
instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company
and an affiliate. The holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws,
also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of
a domestic insurer and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

     The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory
and regulatory restrictions in each company's state of domicile, which limit the
amount of dividends or distributions by an insurance company to its
stockholders. The ability of TIC and subsidiaries of TAP to pay dividends to the
Company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, future earnings
and regulatory restrictions. A maximum of $507 million of statutory surplus is
available in 1997 for dividends from TIC to its parent without prior approval of
the Connecticut Insurance Department. Dividend payments to TAP from its
insurance subsidiaries are limited to $647 million in 1997 without prior
approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department.

     The Company's principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in Connecticut
and Massachusetts. The insurance holding company law of Connecticut requires
notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration
or payment of any dividend, which together with other distributions made within
the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurer's
surplus or (ii) the insurer's net income for the twelve-month period ending the
preceding December 31st, in each case determined in accordance with statutory
accounting practices. Such declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted
unassigned funds (surplus), as determined in accordance with statutory
accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in
which the Company's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain
similar (although in certain instances somewhat more restrictive) limitations on
the payment of dividends.

     Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their
state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by certain insureds as a result of
the insolvency of other insurers. Depending upon state law, insurers can be
assessed an amount that is generally equal to between 1% and 2% of premiums
written for the relevant lines of insurance in that state each year to pay the
claims of an insolvent insurer. Most of these payments are recoverable through
premium rates, premium tax credits or policy surcharges. Significant increases
in assessments could limit the ability of the Company's insurance subsidiaries
to recover such assessments through tax credits. In addition, there have been
some legislative efforts to limit




or repeal the tax offset provisions, which efforts, to date, have been generally
unsuccessful. These assessments may increase or decrease in the future depending
upon the rate of insolvencies of insurance companies.

     The Company also participates in FHCF, which is a state-mandated
catastrophe reinsurance fund that provides reimbursement to insurers for a
portion of their future catastrophic hurricane losses. FHCF is primarily funded
by premiums from the insurance companies that write residential property
business in Florida and, if insufficient, assessments on insurance companies
that write other property and casualty insurance in Florida, excluding workers'
compensation. FHCF's resources are limited to these contributions and to its
borrowing capacity at the time of a significant catastrophe in Florida.

     The Company's insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in
various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers'
compensation and automobile insurance, which provide various insurance coverages
to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such
coverage in the voluntary market. Participation in these pools in most states is
generally in proportion to voluntary writings of related lines of business in
that state. The underwriting results of these pools traditionally have been
unprofitable, although the effect of their performance has been partially
mitigated in certain lines of insurance by the states' allowance of increases in
rates for business voluntarily written by pool participants in such states.
Earned premiums related to such pools and assigned risks for the Company were
$379 million, $315 million and $509 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The related underwriting losses for the Company were $39 million,
$152 million and $300 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

     Proposed legislation and regulatory changes have been introduced in the
states from time to time that would modify certain laws and regulations
affecting the financial services industry, including the provisions governing
relationships among insurance companies and agents, investment banks and
commercial banks. The potential impact of such legislation on the Company's
businesses cannot be predicted at this time.

     In addition to state insurance laws, the Company's insurance subsidiaries
are also subject to general business and corporation laws, state securities
laws, consumer protection laws, fair credit reporting acts and other laws. The
insurance industry generally is exempt from federal antitrust laws because of
the application of the McCarran-Ferguson Act.

     Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control

     Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the protection
of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled (or,
in some cases, having such substantial business that it is deemed to be
commercially domiciled) in that state. The Company owns, directly or indirectly,
certain property and casualty insurance companies domiciled in the States of
Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts,




Missouri, New Jersey and Texas and certain life insurance companies domiciled in
Connecticut, Massachusetts and Georgia. "Control" is generally presumed to exist
through the ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic
insurance company or of any company that controls a domestic insurance company.
Any purchaser of shares of Common Stock representing 10% or more of the voting
power of the Company will be presumed to have acquired control of the Company's
domestic insurance subsidiaries unless, following application by such purchaser
in each insurance subsidiary's state of domicile, the relevant Insurance
Commissioner determines otherwise. In addition, many state insurance regulatory
laws contain provisions that require prenotification to state agencies of a
change in control of a nondomestic admitted insurance company in that state.
While such prenotification statutes do not authorize the state agency to
disapprove the change of control, such statutes do authorize issuance of a cease
and desist order with respect to the nondomestic admitted insurer if certain
conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions
that would constitute a change in control of the Company would generally require
prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the Company's
insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled and may require
preacquisition notification in those states that have adopted preacquisition
notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to
transact business.

     Such requirements may deter, delay or prevent certain transactions
affecting the control of or the ownership of Common Stock, including
transactions that could be advantageous to the stockholders of the Company.

     Insurance Regulatory Information System

     The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or "tests" called
the Insurance Regulatory Information System ("IRIS") that were designed for
early identification of companies that may require special attention by
insurance regulatory authorities. These tests were developed primarily to assist
state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the
financial condition of insurance companies. Insurance companies submit data on
an annual basis to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using ratios
covering twelve categories of financial data with defined "usual ranges" for
each category.

     Falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios is not considered a failing
result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early
monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for
financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the
usual ranges. An insurance company may fall out of the usual range for one or
more ratios because of specific transactions that are in themselves immaterial.
Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it
falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. In normal years,
15% of the companies included in the IRIS system are expected by the NAIC to be
outside the usual range on four or more ratios.




     In each of the last three years certain of the Company's subsidiaries have
been outside of the usual range for certain IRIS ratios. In all such instances,
the regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that there is no solvency
problem. It is possible that similar events could occur this year, and
management believes that the resolution would be the same. No regulatory action
has been taken by any state insurance department or the NAIC with respect to
IRIS ratios of any of the Company's insurance subsidiaries for the three years
ended December 31, 1996.

     For 1996, Travelers Indemnity did not have any IRIS ratios outside the
usual range. However, both the two-year overall operating ratio and the two-year
reserve development to surplus ratios were outside the usual range for Aetna
Casualty and Standard Fire because of actions taken during 1996 and 1995 to
strengthen reserves for environmental and asbestos-related claims. In addition,
the change in writings ratio produced an unusual value for Standard Fire and the
estimated current reserve deficiency to surplus ratio was outside the usual
range for Aetna C&S of America, both as a result of management's decision in
1995 to combine its two intercompany pooling arrangements (one for Personal
Lines and one for Commercial Lines) into one pool. If these two ratios were
recalculated to have all items reflect the new agreement, the ratios would not
produce unusual values. Concurrent with the change in the intercompany pooling
arrangements, capital was reallocated among Aetna P&C insurers, which resulted
in an unusual value in the change in surplus ratio for Standard Fire.

     Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements

     In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the NAIC has
adopted a formula and model law to implement RBC requirements for life insurance
companies and most property and casualty insurance companies, which is designed
to assess minimum capital requirements and to raise the level of protection that
statutory surplus provides for policyholder obligations. The RBC requirements
are to be used as early warning tools by the NAIC and states to identify
companies that merit further regulatory action. For these purposes, an insurer's
surplus is measured in relation to its specific asset and liability profiles. A
company's risk-based capital is calculated by applying factors to various asset,
premium and reserve items, where the factor is higher for those items with
greater underlying risk and lower for less risky items.

     The RBC formula for property-casualty insurance companies measures four
major areas of risk facing property and casualty insurers: (i) underwriting,
which encompasses the risk of adverse loss developments and inadequate pricing;
(ii) declines in asset values arising from credit risk; (iii) declines in asset
values arising from investment risks; and (iv) off-balance sheet risk arising
from adverse experience from non-controlled assets, guarantees for affiliates or
other contingent liabilities and reserve and premium growth. Pursuant to the
law, insurers having less statutory surplus than that required by the RBC
calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending
on the level of capital inadequacy.




     The RBC formula for life insurance companies calculates baseline life
risk-based capital as a mathematical combination of amounts for the following
four categories of risk: (i) asset risk (i.e., the risk of asset default); (ii)
insurance risk (i.e., the risk of adverse mortality and morbidity experience);
(iii) interest rate risk (i.e., the risk of loss due to changes in interest
rates); and (iv) business risk (i.e., normal business and management risk).

     The RBC law provides for four levels of regulatory action. The extent of
regulatory intervention and action increases as the level of surplus to RBC
falls. The first level, the Company Action Level (as defined by the NAIC),
requires an insurer to submit a plan of corrective actions to the regulator if
surplus falls below 200% of the RBC amount. The Regulatory Action Level (as
defined by the NAIC) requires an insurer to submit a plan containing corrective
actions and permits the relevant Insurance Commissioner to perform an
examination or other analysis and issue a corrective order if surplus falls
below 150% of the RBC amount. The Authorized Control Level (as defined by the
NAIC) allows the relevant Insurance Commissioner to rehabilitate or liquidate an
insurer in addition to the aforementioned actions if surplus falls below 100% of
the RBC amount. The fourth action level is the Mandatory Control Level (as
defined by the NAIC) which requires the relevant Insurance Commissioner to
rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer if surplus falls below 70% of the RBC
amount. Based on the foregoing formula, at December 31, 1996, the RBC ratios of
the Company's insurance subsidiaries were in excess of levels that would require
company or regulatory action.

     The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately
capitalized companies which operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it
is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank such
companies. At December 31, 1996, all of the Company's life and property-casualty
insurance companies had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring
regulatory action at any of the four levels.

     Federal Regulation

     Although the federal government does not directly regulate the business of
insurance, other than flood insurance, federal initiatives often have an impact
on the insurance industry. Legislation has been introduced in Congress during
the past several sessions that, if enacted, would result in substantially
greater federal regulation of the insurance business. Current and proposed
federal measures that may affect the property and casualty industry may include
possible changes to CERCLA and the tax laws governing property and casualty
insurance companies, proposed limits to product liability lawsuits and other
tort reform proposals. In addition, proposed legislation has been introduced in
Congress from time to time that would modify certain laws and regulations
affecting the financial services industry, including the provisions regarding
affiliations among insurance companies, investment banks and commercial banks.




     It is not possible to predict whether such proposed legislation will be
enacted, what form such legislation might take when enacted, or the potential
effects of such legislation on the Company and its competitors.

     Certain variable life insurance and individual and group variable
annuities, as well as modified guaranteed annuities, and their related separate
accounts are subject to regulation by the Commission.

Investments

     This section discusses the investment portfolios of the businesses
described in the Company's insurance services segments.

     Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and
regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments.
In general, these laws and regulations permit investments, within specified
limits and subject to certain qualifications, in federal, state and municipal
obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, real
estate mortgages and real estate.

     At December 31, 1996, the investment holdings of the companies included in
the insurance services segments were composed primarily of fixed maturities. At
December 31, 1996, approximately 96.1% in total dollar amount of the fixed
maturities portfolios of such companies had investment grade ratings. The
remaining investments are principally mortgage loans and real estate, discussed
below, policy loans and other investments. For additional information regarding
these investment portfolios, see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and the discussion of Asset Quality in the Property & Casualty
Insurance Services Segment discussion in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

     Consistent with the nature of related contract obligations, the invested
assets attributable to group insurance and individual life, accident and health
and financial services are primarily long-term fixed income investments such as
corporate debt securities, mortgage and asset-backed securities and mortgage
loans. A small portion of the invested assets related to these operations is in
preferred and common stocks and real estate equity investments. The
property-casualty fixed maturities portfolios (principally bonds) are shifted
from time to time to respond to the changing economic outlook, insurance
underwriting results and the resultant changes in the federal income tax
position of the Company and its subsidiaries.

     Cash available for investment is principally derived from operating
activities and investment income. In addition, cash becomes available for
investment from prepayment, maturity and sale of investments. In recent years,
the underperforming mortgage loan and real estate portfolios have been
significantly reduced. See "-- Mortgage Loans and Real Estate Held for Sale."
Different investment policies have been developed for various lines of




business based on the product requirements, the type and term of the liabilities
associated with these products, regulatory requirements and tax treatment of the
businesses in which each company is engaged.

     Mortgage Loans and Real Estate Held for Sale

     At December 31, 1996, the mortgage loan and real estate held for sale
portfolios of the businesses included in the Company's insurance services
segments consisted of approximately $3.8 billion and $695 million, respectively.
Mortgage loans and real estate held for sale at December 31, 1996 include $811
million and $136 million, respectively, from the Acquisition. At December 31,
1995 and 1994, the mortgage loan portfolio consisted of approximately $4.0
billion and $5.4 billion, respectively, and the real estate held for sale
portfolio consisted of approximately $321 million and $418 million,
respectively. The Company has continued a program of disposing of its real
estate investments and expediting the payoff of certain mortgage loans and
reinvesting the proceeds to obtain current market yields. See Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" for additional information.

     The Company's accelerated liquidation strategy for foreclosed real estate
and certain mortgage loans has mitigated the negative impact that these
underperforming portfolios have had on the Company's investment income and the
Company believes that continuation of this strategy will have similar mitigating
effects. The Company expects that approximately half of maturing commercial
mortgage loans in its portfolio will be refinanced, restructured or foreclosed.
Restructured loans are defined as loans the terms of which have been changed
from the original contract generally by lowering the pay rate of interest in the
early years after modification. Loans which have pay rates of interest after
modification that are equal to or above market rates are not included in the
underperforming mortgage loan inventory. At December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
approximately $91 million, $252 million and $511 million, or 2%, 6% and 9%,
respectively, of the combined mortgage loan portfolio of the Company was
classified as underperforming. Underperforming mortgage loans include delinquent
loans, loans in the process of foreclosure and loans modified at interest rates
below market.

     For information regarding the principal balance of mortgage loans at
December 31, 1996 by contractual maturity, see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities
because borrowers may have the right to prepay loans with or without prepayment
premiums. Unscheduled payments and sales of mortgage loans were $1.0 billion in
1996, $1.0 billion in 1995 and $1.3 billion in 1994. The average remaining life
of these mortgages is six years.

     Real estate management evaluates the portfolio on an ongoing basis,
assessing the probabilities of loss with respect to a comprehensive series of
projections, including a host of




variables relating to the borrower, the property, the term of the loan, the
tenant composition, rental rates, other supply and demand factors, and overall
economic conditions.

     The following table summarizes by property type the mortgage loan portfolio
and real estate held for sale included in the investment portfolios of the
Company as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. For information summarizing the
geographic distribution of the mortgage loan portfolio and real estate assets,
see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                  (in millions)

Property Type:                     Mortgage Loans             Real Estate
- --------------                     --------------             -----------
                              1996     1995     1994     1996     1995     1994
                             ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
Commercial:
   Office                    $1,698   $1,551   $2,141   $  190   $  177   $  224
   Apartment                    467      654    1,112       68        8        9
   Hotel                        244      594      642      299       47       79
   Retail                       518      449      623       60       42       46
   Industrial                   158      181      228       31        9       13
   Other                         41       45      108       34       26       33
                             ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
Total commercial              3,126    3,474    4,854      682      309      404
Agricultural                    686      574      562       13       12       14
                             ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
   Total                     $3,812   $4,048   $5,416   $  695   $  321   $  418
                             ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======

     Derivatives

     See the section entitled "End User Activity" in Note 19 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the policies and
transactions related to derivatives of the Company.

                         CORPORATE AND OTHER OPERATIONS

     In addition to its four business segments, the Company's Corporate and
Other segment consists of unallocated expenses and earnings primarily related to
interest, corporate administration, and certain corporate investments. In 1995
and through the date of sale in 1996, this segment also includes the Company's
interest in RCM Capital Management, a California Limited Partnership ("RCM").

     In June 1996, the Company sold 100% of its interest in RCM, which provides
investment management services, to Dresdner Bank AG. Assets under management by
RCM were $26.2 billion at December 31, 1995 and $22.5 billion at December 31,
1994.




     In October 1995, the Company completed the sale to United HealthCare
Corporation of its 48.25% interest in The MetraHealth Companies, Inc.
("MetraHealth"). MetraHealth was formed in January 1995 as a joint venture of
the group medical insurance businesses of the Company and Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company ("MetLife"). The Company received $831 million in cash from
the sale of its interest in MetraHealth. During 1996, the Company received a
contingency payment (based on MetraHealth's 1995 results) and recognized a gain
in 1996 of $31 million after tax ($48 million pre-tax).

     In January 1995, the Company completed the sale of its group life and
related businesses to MetLife. The purchase price for the group life business
was $350 million. In connection with the sale, the Company agreed to cede to
MetLife 100% of its risks in the businesses sold on an indemnity reinsurance
basis, effective January 1, 1995. All of the businesses sold to MetLife or
contributed to MetraHealth were included in the Company's Managed Care and
Employee Benefits Operations in 1994. These operations have been accounted for
as a discontinued operation. In 1995 and 1996 the Company's discontinued
operations reflect the medical insurance business not yet transferred, the gains
from the sales of these businesses and, in 1995, its equity interest in the
earnings of MetraHealth. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

                                OTHER INFORMATION

General Business Factors

     In the judgment of the Company, no material part of the business of the
Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer or group of
customers, the loss of any one of which would have a materially adverse effect
on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts
for as much as 10% of the Company's consolidated revenues.

     At December 31, 1996, the Company had approximately 56,200 full-time and
2,700 part-time employees.

Source of Funds

     For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the
long-term debt of the Company's subsidiaries, see Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Liquidity and Capital Resources," and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.




Taxation

     For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations,
see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations," and Notes 1 and 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Financial Information about Industry Segments

     For financial information regarding industry segments of the Company, see
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations," and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Executive Officers of the Company

     The current executive officers of the Company are indicated below. Periods
of offices held include offices with the Company's predecessor, CCC, and unless
stated otherwise all offices listed below are with the Company. Ages are given
as of March 5, 1997.

                                                                         Officer
     Name                     Age       Positions                        Since
     ----                     ---       ---------                        -------

Sanford I. Weill              63        Chairman of the Board             1986
                                          and Chief Executive 
                                          Officer
James Dimon                   40        President and Chief               1986
                                          Operating Officer of the 
                                          Company; Chairman and Chief
                                          Executive Officer of SB 
                                          Holdings and SBI
Jeffrey B. Lane               54        Vice Chairman                     1996
Robert I. Lipp                58        Vice Chairman of the Company;     1986
                                          Chairman of the Board, 
                                          President and Chief 
                                          Executive Officer of TAP
Jon C. Madonna                53        Vice Chairman of the Company;     1997
                                          Vice Chairman of TAP
Joseph J. Plumeri II          53        Vice Chairman of the Company;     1994
                                          Chief Executive Officer
                                          of PFS
Michael A. Carpenter          49        Executive Vice President          1995
                                          of the Company; Chairman, 
                                          President and Chief 
                                          Executive Officer of TIC 
                                          and TLAC
Irwin Ettinger                58        Executive Vice President          1987
                                           and Chief Accounting 
                                           Officer
Charles O. Prince, III        47        Executive Vice President,         1986
                                          General Counsel and 
                                          Secretary
Steven D. Black               44        Vice Chairman and Chief           1996*
                                          Operating Officer of 
                                          SB Holdings and SBI




                                                                         Officer
     Name                     Age       Positions                         Since
     ----                     ---       ---------                         -----

Charles J. Clarke             61        Chairman and Chief Executive      1995*
                                          Officer-Commercial Lines 
                                          of TAP
Donald R. Cooper              56        Chief Actuary                     1995
Peter M. Dawkins              58        Chairman, President and           1992*
                                          Chief Executive Officer 
                                          of Travelers Group Diversified
                                          Distribution Services, Inc.
Jay S. Fishman                44        Senior Vice President of the      1991
                                          Company; Vice Chairman of 
                                          TAP and President and Chief 
                                          Operating Officer of TAP's
                                          Commercial Lines
Marjorie Magner               47        President and Chief Operating     1996*
                                          Officer of CCC
Heidi G. Miller               43        Senior Vice President and         1992
                                          Chief Financial Officer
Marc P. Weill                 40        Senior Vice President and         1991
                                          Chief Investment Officer
Robert B. Willumstad          51        Chairman and Chief Executive      1993*
                                          Officer of CCC
- ----------------
*    Indicates date that such officer became a member of the Company's Planning
     Group.

     Sanford I. Weill has been a director of the Company since 1986. He has been
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and its
predecessor, CCC, since 1986; he was also its President from 1986 until 1991. He
was President of American Express Company from 1983 to 1985; Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of American Express Insurance Services, Inc.
from 1984 to 1985; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, or a
principal executive officer, of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. from 1965 to 1984;
Chairman of the Board of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. from 1984 to
1985; and a founding partner of Shearson's predecessor partnership from 1960 to
1965. Mr. Weill has been a director of TAP since 1996. Mr. Weill's son, Marc P.
Weill, is a Senior Vice President and an executive officer of the Company. Mr.
Weill is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Hall, and a director of
the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Weill is a member of the Board of
Governors of New York Hospital and is Chairman of the Board of Overseers of
Cornell University Medical College. He is on the Board of Overseers of Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He is a member of Cornell University's Johnson
Graduate School of Management Advisory Board and a Board of Trustees Fellow. Mr.
Weill is Chairman of the National Academy Foundation, whose member programs
include the Academy of Finance, the Academy of Travel and Tourism and the
Academy of Public Service.




     Mr. Dimon has been a director of the Company since September 1991. He is
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. He is also Chairman of the
Board, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the executive committee of SBI.
Mr. Dimon has been a director of TAP since 1996. From May 1988 to June 1995, he
was Chief Financial Officer of the Company. From May 1988 to September 1991, he
was Executive Vice President of the Company. Mr. Dimon was Chief Operating
Officer of SBI until January 1996 and was Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Administrative Officer of SBI from 1990 to 1991. He is also Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of SB Holdings. From March 1994 to
January 1996, he was Chief Operating Officer of SB Holdings. From 1986 to 1988,
Mr. Dimon was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CCC, the
Company's predecessor. From 1982 to 1985, he was a Vice President of American
Express Company and Assistant to the President, Sanford I. Weill. Mr. Dimon is a
trustee of New York University Medical Center and a director of the Center on
Addiction and Substance Abuse and the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc.

     Mr. Lane has been a Vice Chairman of the Company since January 1996. He has
served as a Director of SBI from January 1991 through March 1996 and as a
Director of SB Holdings from November 1993. Mr. Lane served as Vice Chairman of
SBI from January 1991 through January 1996 and as Vice Chairman of SB Holdings
from November 1993 through January 1996. He joined the Company in 1990. Prior to
joining the Company in 1990, Mr. Lane was President and Chief Operating Officer
of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.

     Mr. Lipp has been a director of the Company since 1991 and is a Vice
Chairman of the Company. Mr. Lipp has been Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer and President of TAP since January 1996. Mr. Lipp has been
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of The Travelers Insurance
Group Inc. since December 1993. From 1991 to 1993, he was Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of CCC. From April 1986 through September 1991, he was an
Executive Vice President of the Company and its corporate predecessor. Prior to
joining the Company in 1986, he was a President and a director of Chemical New
York Corporation and Chemical Bank where he held senior executive positions for
more than five years prior thereto. Mr. Lipp is a director of The New York City
Ballet, Wadsworth Atheneum and the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art and
Chairman of Dance-On Inc., a private foundation.

     Mr. Madonna joined the Company in February 1997 as Vice Chairman, and also
serves as Vice Chairman of TAP. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Madonna was
Chairman of KPMG International since October 1995. From 1990 to 1996, he was
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

     Mr. Plumeri has been a Vice Chairman of the Company since July 1994 and has
been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PFS since April 1996. He joined the
Company in August 1993, serving as President of SBI from that time through July
1994. Mr. Plumeri had worked for Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. or its
predecessors for over 25 years, in various




positions of increasing responsibility, until SBI acquired certain businesses
from Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("SLB"). At that time, Mr. Plumeri
was a Managing Partner of SLB, and from 1990 until September 1992 he served as
President of SLB's Private Client Group.

     Mr. Carpenter has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since
July 1995 and also serves as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of
TIC and TLAC. From January 1989 to June 1994, Mr. Carpenter was Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kidder, Peabody Group, Inc., an
investment banking and brokerage company that was a wholly owned subsidiary of
General Electric Company. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President
of General Electric Capital Corporation and Vice President of General Electric
Company.

     Mr. Ettinger has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since
January 1996. Prior to joining CCC as Senior Vice President in October 1987, he
was Partner in charge of the Tax Department of Arthur Young and Company's New
York offices.

     Mr. Prince has been General Counsel of the Company or its predecessor since
1983, and served as a Senior Vice President from 1986 until January 1996, when
he became an Executive Vice President.

     Mr. Black has been Vice Chairman of SB Holdings since November 1993 and
Vice Chairman of SBI since July 1993. He was elected Chief Operating Officer of
those companies in January 1996. He is also a member of the executive committee
and a director of each of SB Holdings and SBI. Mr. Black has served as the head
of Smith Barney's Capital Markets Division from 1991 to January 1996, and has
served in several positions at Smith Barney since 1974.

     Mr. Clarke has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer--Commercial Lines
of TAP since January 1996, and Chairman of the Company's Property-Casualty
Commercial Lines since 1990. Mr. Clarke has served in various positions at
Travelers P&C since 1958.

     Mr. Cooper has been Chief Actuary of the Company since March 1995 and has
been Vice Chairman of Travelers Insurance Holdings Inc. since October 1990. He
also serves as Chairman of the Board of both AHL and Resource Deployment, Inc.,
subsidiaries of the Company.

     Mr. Dawkins has been Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Travelers Group Diversified Distribution Services, Inc. since August 1996. In
addition, he has been a director of Travelers Group Exchange, Inc. since
September 1996 and became its Chief Executive Officer in January 1997. Mr.
Dawkins joined the Company in 1991 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Primerica Financial Services, Inc., and served in that capacity until August
1996.




     Mr. Fishman has been a Senior Vice President of the Company since October
1991. In January 1996, he became Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer
of TAP and since October 1996 he has been President and Chief Operating Officer
of TAP's Commercial Lines. He has also served as Vice Chairman of TIGI since
September 1995 and as Chief Financial Officer of that company since December
1993. Mr. Fishman was Treasurer of the Company from October 1991 to December
1993. Prior thereto, he held various other positions with the Company and its
subsidiaries since 1989, when he joined the Company from Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., where he was Senior Vice President of Merchant Banking.

     Ms. Magner has been President of CCC since June 1993 and became its Chief
Operating Officer in December 1995. Ms. Magner joined CCC in May 1987, and
served as Chief Administrative Officer from 1993 to 1996. From 1991 to 1993, she
was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Operations of CCC.

     Ms. Miller has been Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of
the Company since June 1995. She also serves as Chief Credit Officer of SBI, a
position she has held since September 1994. Ms. Miller joined the Company in
February 1992 as a Vice President. Prior thereto, she was a Managing Director in
the Emerging Markets Division of Chemical Bank, a position she held from 1987 to
1992.

     Marc P. Weill has been a Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer
of the Company since January 1992. He also serves as a director, Chairman of the
Board and President of Travelers Asset Management International Corporation, a
registered investment advisor. Mr. Weill has held various other positions with
the Company and its subsidiaries since January 1991. He is the son of Sanford I.
Weill.

     Mr. Willumstad has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CCC since
June 1993 and has been with that company since 1987. From 1989 until assuming
his current position, he served as President of the Consumer Finance Services
unit of the Company. Mr. Willumstad is a member of the U.S. Region Board of
Directors of MasterCard International.

                           GLOSSARY OF INSURANCE TERMS


Accident year ................     The annual accounting period in which loss
                                   events occurred, regardless of when the
                                   losses are actually reported, booked or paid.

Adjusted unassigned surplus...     Unassigned surplus as of the most recent
                                   statutory annual report reduced by
                                   twenty-five percent of that year's unrealized
                                   appreciation in value or revaluation of
                                   assets or unrealized profits on investments,
                                   as defined in such report.




Admitted insurer..............     A company licensed to transact insurance
                                   business within a state.

Alternative market............     The segment of the insurance market which has
                                   developed in response to volatility in cost
                                   and availability of traditional commercial
                                   insurance coverage and consists of various
                                   risk financing mechanisms, including self
                                   insurance, captive insurance companies, risk
                                   retention groups and residual market
                                   business.

Annuity.......................     A contract that pays a periodic income
                                   benefit for the life of a person (the
                                   annuitant), the lives of two or more persons
                                   or for a specified period of time.

Assigned risk pools...........     Reinsurance pools which cover risks for those
                                   unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary
                                   market because the risk is too great or rate
                                   inadequacy has reduced the supply of
                                   insurance. The costs of the risks associated
                                   with these pools are charged back to
                                   insurance carriers in proportion to their
                                   direct writings.

Assumed reinsurance...........     Insurance liabilities acquired from a ceding
                                   company.

Assumption reinsurance........     A transaction whereby the ceding company
                                   transfers its entire obligation under the
                                   policy to the reinsurer, who becomes directly
                                   liable to the policyholder in all respects,
                                   including collecting premiums and paying
                                   benefits. See "Reinsurance."

Attachment point..............     The amount of losses above which excess of
                                   loss reinsurance becomes operative.

Broker........................     One who negotiates contracts of insurance or
                                   reinsurance on behalf of an insured party,
                                   receiving a commission from the insurer or
                                   reinsurer for placement and other services
                                   rendered.

Capacity......................     The percentage of surplus, or the dollar
                                   amount of exposure, that an insurer or
                                   reinsurer is willing to place at risk.
                                   Capacity may apply to a single risk, a
                                   program, a line of business or an entire book
                                   of business. Capacity may be constrained by
                                   legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or
                                   indirect restrictions.

Captive company...............     An insurance company formed to insure the
                                   risks of its parent entity or entities.




Case reserves.................     Loss reserves, established with respect to
                                   specific, individual reported claims.

Casualty insurance............     Insurance which is primarily concerned with
                                   the losses caused by injuries to third
                                   persons (i.e., not the insured) and the legal
                                   liability imposed on the insured resulting
                                   therefrom. It includes, but is not limited
                                   to, employers' liability, workers'
                                   compensation, public liability, automobile
                                   liability, personal liability and aviation
                                   liability insurance. It excludes certain
                                   types of losses that by law or custom are
                                   considered as being exclusively within the
                                   scope of other types of insurance, such as
                                   fire or marine.

Catastrophe...................     A severe loss, usually involving risks such
                                   as fire, earthquake, windstorm, explosion and
                                   other similar events.

Catastrophe loss..............     Loss and directly identified loss adjustment
                                   expenses from catastrophes.

Catastrophe reinsurance.......     A form of excess of loss property reinsurance
                                   which, subject to a specified limit,
                                   indemnifies the ceding company for the amount
                                   of loss in excess of a specified retention
                                   with respect to an accumulation of losses
                                   resulting from a catastrophic event. The
                                   actual reinsurance document is called a
                                   "catastrophe cover."

Cede; ceding company..........     When an insurer reinsures its liability with
                                   another insurer (a "cession"), it "cedes"
                                   business and is referred to as the "ceding
                                   company."

Ceded reinsurance.............     Risks transferred to another company as
                                   reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

Claim.........................     Request by an insured for indemnification by
                                   an insurance company for loss incurred from
                                   an insured peril.

Claim adjustment expense......     See "Loss adjustment expense."

Claims and claim adjustment
  expense.....................     See "Loss and loss adjustment expenses."

Claims and claim adjustment
  expense reserves............     See "Loss reserves."




Clash cover...................     An excess of loss agreement with a retention
                                   higher than the limits on any one reinsured
                                   policy. The agreement is thus only exposed to
                                   loss when two or more policies (perhaps from
                                   different lines of business) are involved in
                                   a common occurrence in an amount greater than
                                   the clash cover retention. Also known as
                                   contingency cover.

Combined ratio................     The sum of the loss and LAE ratio, the
                                   underwriting expense ratio and, where
                                   applicable, the ratio of dividends to
                                   policyholders to net premiums earned. A
                                   combined ratio under 100% generally indicates
                                   an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over
                                   100% generally indicates an underwriting
                                   loss.

Commercial lines..............     The various kinds of insurance which are
                                   written for businesses.

Commutation agreement.........     An agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding
                                   company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed
                                   upon amount in exchange for a complete
                                   discharge of all obligations, including
                                   future obligations, between the parties for
                                   reinsurance losses incurred.

Contractholder funds..........     Receipts from the issuance of universal life,
                                   pension investment and certain individual
                                   annuity contracts. Such receipts are
                                   considered deposits on investment contracts
                                   that do not have substantial mortality or
                                   morbidity risks.

Deductible....................     The amount of loss that an insured retains.

Deferred acquisition costs....     Commissions and premium taxes and, for
                                   certain life insurance lines, other
                                   origination costs, which vary with and are
                                   primarily related to the production of new
                                   business, are deferred and amortized to
                                   achieve a matching of revenues and expenses
                                   when reported in financial statements
                                   prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Defined contribution plans....     Type of pension plan in which the
                                   contribution rate is certain but the
                                   retirement benefit is variable.

Deposits and other
  considerations..............     Consist of cash deposits and charges for
                                   mortality risk and expenses associated with
                                   universal life insurance, annuities and group
                                   pensions.




Direct written premiums.......     The amounts charged by a primary insurer to
                                   insureds in exchange for coverages provided
                                   in accordance with the terms of an insurance
                                   contract.

Earned premiums or premiums
  earned......................     That portion of property-liability premiums
                                   written that applies to the expired portion
                                   of the policy term. Earned premiums are
                                   recognized as revenues under both SAP and
                                   GAAP.

Excess liability..............     Additional casualty coverage above the first
                                   layer.

Excess loss coverage..........     Coverage which indemnifies the person for
                                   that portion of the loss (arising out of a
                                   loss occurrence) which is in excess of the
                                   deductible.

Excess of loss reinsurance....     Reinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured
                                   against all or a specified portion of losses
                                   under reinsured policies in excess of a
                                   specified dollar amount or "retention."

Expense ratio.................     See "Underwriting expense ratio."

Extra contractual obligations
  losses......................     Losses incurred by an insurer, beyond those
                                   that would have been incurred as specified in
                                   the insurance agreement with an insured, due
                                   to monetary awards required by a court of law
                                   against the insurer for its negligence to or
                                   bad faith in dealing with its insured.

Facultative reinsurance.......     The reinsurance of all or a portion of the
                                   insurance provided by a single policy. Each
                                   policy reinsured is separately negotiated.

Fidelity and surety programs..     Insurance which guarantees performance of an
                                   obligation or indemnifies for loss due to
                                   embezzlement or wrongful abstraction of
                                   money, securities or other property.

Fiduciary accounts............     Accounts held on behalf of others.

General account...............     All an insurer's assets other than those
                                   allocated to separate accounts.

Guaranteed cost insurance.....     Premium charged on a prospective basis which
                                   may be fixed or adjustable on a specified
                                   rating basis but never on the basis of loss
                                   experience in the period of coverage.




Guaranteed cost products......     An insurance policy where the premiums
                                   charged will not be adjusted for actual loss
                                   experience during the covered period.

Guaranteed investment
  contracts (GICs)............     Group contracts sold to pension plans, profit
                                   sharing plans and funding agreements that
                                   guarantee a stated interest rate for a
                                   specified period of time.

Guaranty fund.................     State-regulated mechanism which is financed
                                   by assessing insurers doing business in those
                                   states. Should insolvencies occur, these
                                   funds are available to meet some or all of
                                   the insolvent insurer's obligations to
                                   policyholders.

Incurred but not reported
  ("IBNR") reserves...........     Reserves for estimated losses and LAE which
                                   have been incurred but not yet reported to
                                   the insurer.

Indemnity reinsurance.........     A transaction whereby the reinsurer agrees to
                                   indemnify the ceding company against all or
                                   part of the loss that the latter may sustain
                                   under the policies it issued that are being
                                   reinsured. The ceding company remains
                                   primarily liable as the direct insurer on all
                                   risks ceded. See "Reinsurance."

Inland marine.................     A broad type of insurance generally covering
                                   articles that may be transported from one
                                   place to another, as well as bridges, tunnels
                                   and other instrumentalities of
                                   transportation. It includes goods in transit
                                   (generally other than transoceanic) and may
                                   include policies for movable objects such as
                                   personal effects, personal property, jewelry,
                                   furs, fine art and others.

Insurance.....................     Mechanism for contractually shifting burdens
                                   of a number of risks by pooling them.

Involuntary business
  (alternative market)........     Risks that are not insurable in the voluntary
                                   market due to either the level of risk or
                                   pricing. Alternative markets are largest for
                                   lines in which state governments or other
                                   agencies mandate coverage such as workers'
                                   compensation. Generally states provide
                                   residual market plans that are designed to
                                   allocate the underwriting experience for
                                   these coverages in proportion to a given
                                   carrier's market share.




IRIS ratios...................     Financial ratios calculated by the NAIC to
                                   assist state insurance departments in
                                   monitoring the financial condition of
                                   insurance companies.

Large deductible
  policy......................     An insurance policy where the customer
                                   assumes at least $25,000 or more of each
                                   loss.

Life contingencies............     Contingencies affecting the duration of life
                                   of an individual or a group of individuals.

Long-term care................     Coverage for extended stays in a nursing home
                                   or home health services.

Loss..........................     An occurrence that is the basis for
                                   submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses
                                   may be covered, limited or excluded from
                                   coverage, depending on the terms of the
                                   policy.

Loss adjustment expense
  ("LAE").....................     The expenses of settling claims, including
                                   legal and other fees and the portion of
                                   general expenses allocated to claim
                                   settlement costs.

Loss and LAE ratio............     For SAP it is the ratio of incurred losses
                                   and loss adjustment expenses to net premiums
                                   earned. For GAAP it is the ratio of incurred
                                   losses and loss adjustment expenses to net
                                   premiums earned plus fee income.

Loss ratios...................     See "Combined ratio."

Loss reserves.................     Liabilities established by insurers and
                                   reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of
                                   claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer
                                   will ultimately be required to pay in respect
                                   of insurance or reinsurance it has written.
                                   Reserves are established for losses and for
                                   LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR
                                   reserves.

Losses and loss adjustment
  expenses....................     The sum of losses incurred and loss
                                   adjustment expenses.

Losses incurred...............     The total losses sustained by an insurance
                                   company under a policy or policies, whether
                                   paid or unpaid. Incurred losses includes a
                                   provision for IBNR.




Morbidity.....................     The rate at which people become diseased,
                                   mentally or physically, or physically
                                   impaired.

Mortality.....................     The rate at which people die.

Multi-peril policies..........     Refers to policies which cover both property
                                   and third party liability exposures.

National Association of
  Insurance Commissioners
  ("NAIC")....................     An organization of the insurance
                                   commissioners or directors of all 50 states
                                   and the District of Columbia organized to
                                   promote consistency of regulatory practice
                                   and statutory accounting standards throughout
                                   the United States.

Net written premiums..........     Direct written premiums plus assumed
                                   reinsurance less premiums ceded to
                                   reinsurers.

Non-admitted coverage.........     Insurance coverage written in a given state
                                   by an insurer not licensed in that state.

Novation......................     A transaction in which the original direct
                                   insurer's obligations are completely
                                   extinguished, resulting in no further
                                   exposure to loss arising on the business
                                   novated.

Personal lines................     Types of insurance written for individuals or
                                   families, rather than for businesses.

Policy loan...................     A loan made by an insurance company to a
                                   policyholder on the security of the cash
                                   value of the policy. Policy loans offset
                                   benefits payable to policyholders.

Pool..........................     An organization of insurers or reinsurers
                                   through which particular types of risks are
                                   underwritten with premiums, losses and
                                   expenses being shared in agreed percentages.

Premium equivalents...........     Premium equivalents represent estimates of
                                   premiums that customers would have been
                                   charged under a fully insured arrangement,
                                   based on expected losses associated with
                                   non-risk-bearing components of each account,
                                   as determined in the pricing process. Premium
                                   equivalents are indicative of the volume of
                                   business handled by an insurer in servicing
                                   relationships. Premium equivalents do not
                                   represent actual premium revenues.




Premiums......................     The amount charged during the year on
                                   policies and contracts issued, renewed or
                                   reinsured by an insurance company.

Producer......................     Contractual entity which directs insureds to
                                   the insurer for coverage. See "Broker."

Property insurance............     Insurance that provides coverage to a person
                                   with an insurable interest in tangible
                                   property for that person's property loss,
                                   damage or loss of use.

Quota share reinsurance.......     Reinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an
                                   agreed fixed percentage of liabilities,
                                   premiums and losses for each policy covered
                                   on a pro rata basis.

Rate of renewal/retention
  ratio.......................     Current period renewal accounts or policies
                                   as a percentage of expired accounts or
                                   policies.

Rates.........................     Amounts charged per unit of insurance.

Reinsurance...................     The practice whereby one insurer, called the
                                   reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid
                                   to such insurer, agrees to indemnify another
                                   insurer, called the ceding company, for part
                                   or all of the liability assumed by the ceding
                                   company under one or more policies or
                                   contracts of insurance which it has issued.

Reinsurance agreement.........     A contract specifying the terms of a
                                   reinsurance transaction.

Reinsurance pools and
  associations................     Mechanisms established to aggregate
                                   insurance, and then distribute results to
                                   participants in the mechanism. The pool or
                                   association performs rating, loss adjustment
                                   and engineering services for certain
                                   exposures. In some cases, they are
                                   established to absorb business that will not
                                   be written voluntarily by insurers.

Residual market (involuntary
  business)...................     Insurance market which provides coverage for
                                   risks unable to purchase insurance in the
                                   voluntary market either because the risk is
                                   too great or rate inadequacy has reduced the
                                   supply of insurance. Residual markets are
                                   frequently created by state legislation
                                   either because of lack of available coverage
                                   such as property coverage in a windstorm
                                   prone area or protection of the accident
                                   victim as in the case of workers'




                                   compensation. The costs of the residual
                                   market are usually charged back to the direct
                                   insurance carriers in proportion to the 
                                   carriers' voluntary market shares for the
                                   type of coverage involved.

Retention.....................     The amount of exposure an insurance company
                                   retains on any one risk or group of risks.

Retrospective premiums........     Premiums related to retrospectively rated
                                   policies.

Retrospective rating..........     A plan or method which permits adjustment of
                                   the final premium or commission on the basis
                                   of actual loss experience, subject to certain
                                   minimum and maximum limits.

Risk-based capital ("RBC")....     A measure adopted by the NAIC for assessing
                                   the minimum statutory capital and surplus
                                   requirements of insurers.

Risk retention................     The amount or portion of a risk an insurer
                                   retains for its own account after ceded
                                   reinsurance. Losses above the stated
                                   retention level are collectible from the
                                   reinsurer. The retention level may be stated
                                   as a percentage or dollar amount.

Salvage.......................     The amount of money an insurer recovers
                                   through the sale of property transferred to
                                   the insurer as a result of a loss payment.

Second injury fund............     The employer of an injured, impaired worker
                                   is responsible only for the workers'
                                   compensation benefit for the most recent
                                   injury; the second injury fund would cover
                                   the cost of any additional benefits for
                                   aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is
                                   shared by the insurance industry, funded
                                   through assessments to insurance companies
                                   based on either premiums or losses.

Self-insured retentions.......     That portion of the risk retained by a person
                                   for its own account.

Separate accounts.............     Funds for which investment income and
                                   investment gains and losses accrue directly
                                   to, and investment risk is borne by, the
                                   contractholders. The assets of these separate
                                   accounts are legally segregated and not
                                   subject to claims that arise out of any other
                                   business of the insurance company.




Servicing carrier.............     An insurance company that provides, for a
                                   fee, various services including policy
                                   issuance, claims adjusting and customer
                                   service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.

Standard policy forms.........     Self-contained pre-printed policy language
                                   used when a large number of insureds face
                                   similar loss exposures.

Statutory accounting practices
  ("SAP").....................     The rules and procedures prescribed or
                                   permitted by United States state insurance
                                   regulatory authorities for recording
                                   transactions and preparing financial
                                   statements. Statutory accounting practices
                                   generally reflect a modified going concern
                                   basis of accounting.

Statutory surplus.............     As determined under SAP, the amount remaining
                                   after all liabilities, including loss
                                   reserves, are subtracted from all admitted
                                   assets. Admitted assets are assets of an
                                   insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to
                                   be recognized on the statutory balance sheet.
                                   Statutory surplus is also referred to as
                                   "surplus" or "surplus as regards
                                   policyholders" for statutory accounting
                                   purposes.

Structured settlements........     Periodic payments to an injured person or
                                   survivor for a determined number of years or
                                   for life, typically in settlement of a claim
                                   under a liability policy, usually funded
                                   through the purchase of an annuity.

Subrogation...................     A principle of law incorporated in insurance
                                   policies, which enables an insurance company,
                                   after paying a loss to its insured, to
                                   recover the amount of the loss from another
                                   who is legally liable for it.

Surrender value...............     The amount of money, usually the legal
                                   reserve under the policy, less sometimes a
                                   surrender charge, which an insurance company
                                   will pay to a policyholder who cancels a
                                   policy. This value may be used as collateral
                                   for a loan.

Third party liability.........     A liability owed to a claimant (or "third
                                   party") who is not one of the two parties to
                                   the insurance contract. Insured liability
                                   claims are referred to as third party claims.

Treaty reinsurance............     The reinsurance of a specified type or
                                   category of risks defined in a reinsurance
                                   agreement (a "treaty") between a primary
                                   insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer.
                                   Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary
                                   insurer or reinsured is




                                   obligated to offer and the reinsurer is
                                   obligated to accept a specified portion of
                                   all such type or category of risks
                                   originally written by the primary insurer or
                                   reinsured.

Umbrella coverage.............     A form of insurance protection against losses
                                   in excess of amounts covered by other
                                   liability insurance policies or amounts not
                                   covered by the usual liability policies.

Unassigned funds (surplus)....     The undistributed and unappropriated amount
                                   of statutory surplus.

Underwriter...................     An employee of an insurance company who
                                   examines, accepts or rejects risks and
                                   classifies accepted risks in order to charge
                                   an appropriate premium for each accepted
                                   risk. The underwriter is expected to select
                                   business that will produce an average risk of
                                   loss no greater than that anticipated for the
                                   class of business.

Underwriting..................     The insurer's or reinsurer's process of
                                   reviewing applications for insurance
                                   coverage, and the decision whether to accept
                                   all or part of the coverage and determination
                                   of the applicable premiums; also refers to
                                   the acceptance of such coverage.

Underwriting expense ratio....     For SAP it is the ratio of underwriting
                                   expenses incurred to net premiums written.
                                   For GAAP it is the ratio of underwriting
                                   expenses incurred to net premiums written
                                   plus fee income.

Underwriting profit or
  underwriting loss...........     The pre-tax profit or loss experienced by a
                                   property and casualty insurance company after
                                   deducting loss and loss adjustment expenses
                                   and operating expenses from net earned
                                   premiums. This profit or loss calculation
                                   includes reinsurance assumed and ceded but
                                   excludes investment income.

Unearned premium..............     The portion of premiums written that is
                                   allocable to the unexpired portion of the
                                   policy term.

Voluntary market..............     The market in which a person seeking
                                   insurance obtains coverage without the
                                   assistance of residual market mechanisms.

Wholesale broker..............     An independent or exclusive agent that
                                   represents both admitted and non admitted
                                   insurers in market areas which include
                                   standard, non-standard, specialty and excess
                                   and 




                                   surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler
                                   does not deal directly with the insurance
                                   consumer. The wholesaler deals with the
                                   retail agent or broker.

Workers' compensation.........     A system (established under state laws) under
                                   which employers provide insurance for benefit
                                   payments to their employees for work-related
                                   injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of
                                   fault.

Item 2.   PROPERTIES.

     The Company's executive offices are located in New York City. Offices and
other properties used by the Company's subsidiaries are located throughout the
United States. A few subsidiaries have offices located in foreign countries.
Most office locations and other properties are leased on terms and for durations
which are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where such
offices and other properties are located.

     As of December 31, 1996, leasehold interests of the Company's
property-casualty insurance subsidiaries included a total of approximately
6,650,000 square feet of office space at about 302 locations throughout the
United States. In addition, TIC owns buildings containing approximately
1,500,000 square feet of office space located in Hartford, Connecticut and
vicinity, serving as the home office for TIC and TAP, and TAP leases
approximately 1,030,000 square feet of such office space under a ten-year lease
that expires on April 1, 2006. TAP also rents from Aetna approximately 373,000
square feet of office space at City Place, located in Hartford, Connecticut,
under an eight-year sublease that expires in 2004, and approximately 225,000
square feet of office space in Windsor, Connecticut, under a two-year lease that
expires in 1998 and is renewable by TAP for up to two additional three-year
terms. The Company's life insurance units also lease approximately 606,000
square feet of office space at about 24 locations throughout the United States,
under various leases. TIC and/or TIGI lease two other buildings in Hartford,
Connecticut with an aggregate of approximately 707,500 square feet, most of
which is subleased to third parties. TIC also owns a building in Norcross,
Georgia that is occupied by its information systems department.

     SBI owns two office buildings in New York City, which total approximately
627,000 square feet. Most of SBI's other offices are located in leased premises,
the leases for which expire at various times.

     SBI leases two buildings, located at 388 and 390 Greenwich Street and
totaling approximately 2,300,000 square feet, through 1999. SBI has a purchase
option with respect to these properties.

     A few other offices and certain warehouse space are owned, none of which is
material to the Company's financial condition or operations. The Company owns 26
acres of 




land in North Castle, New York, on which it is constructing an executive
conference and planning center, anticipated to be completed in May 1997.

     The Company believes its properties are adequate and suitable for its
business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. For further
information concerning leases, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     This section describes the major pending legal proceedings, other than
ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or
its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their property is subject.
Certain additional matters may be described in the periodic reports filed under
the Exchange Act by certain subsidiaries of the Company.

Smith Barney

     For information concerning several purported class action lawsuits filed
against SBI in connection with three funds managed by Hyperion Capital
Management Inc., see the descriptions that appear in the fourth paragraph on
page 26 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 1993, the first paragraph under the heading "Smith Barney" on page
65 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1995 and the first paragraph on page 34 of the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996, which descriptions are
incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the pertinent paragraphs of such
filings is included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. Plaintiffs' petition for a
rehearing en banc was denied in January 1997.

     For information concerning actions filed against a number of
broker-dealers, including SBI, relating to trading practices on the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system, see the
descriptions that appear in the third paragraph on page 16 of the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q of SB Holdings for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
the last full paragraph on page 65 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1995, which descriptions are incorporated by
reference herein. A copy of the pertinent paragraphs of such filing is included
as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. In March 1996, plaintiffs filed a motion for
class certification.

     For information concerning a complaint seeking equitable relief that was
filed by the U.S. Department of Justice, naming 24 major brokerage firms,
including SBI, see the description that appears in the first paragraph on page
35 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
1996, which description is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the
pertinent paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.




TAP

     For information concerning a case filed by certain subsidiaries of the
Company involving certain reinsurance contracts with Lloyd's, see the
description that appears in the paragraph that begins on page 2 and ends on page
3 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 1, 1994, which
description is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the pertinent
paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. Hearings
before the American Arbitration Association began in the second half of 1996 and
are expected to continue into the second quarter of 1997.

     For information concerning actions filed against several insurance
companies and industry organizations relating to service fee charges and premium
calculations on certain workers' compensation insurance, see the descriptions
that appear in the paragraph that begins on page 90 and ends on page 91 of the
Prospectus dated April 22, 1996 of TAP, the second paragraph on page 35 of the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 and
the second paragraph on page 34 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 1996, which descriptions are incorporated by
reference herein. A copy of the pertinent paragraphs of such filings is included
as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. In NC Steel, Inc. v. NCCI, plaintiffs and
defendants have appealed to the North Carolina State Supreme Court. In November
1996, Amundson & Associates Art Studio v. NCCI, et al. was removed to the U.S.
District Court for the District of Kansas. In December 1996, a purported class
action entitled Forman, Inc. v. NCCI, et al. was filed in Chancery Court, Marion
County, Tennessee, with allegations similar to those in NC Steel and seeking
unspecified monetary damages. In January 1997, two additional purported class
actions, each entitled El Chico Restaurants, Inc. v. The Aetna Casualty and
Surety Company, et al., were filed in Chancery Court, Davidson County,
Tennessee, and Superior Court, Richmond County, Georgia, respectively, with
allegations similar to those in Weatherford Roofing Company v. Employers
National Insurance Company, which was settled in mid-1996. Plaintiffs seek
unspecified monetary damages. In February 1997, one action was removed to the
U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee and the other action
was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia.
Also in January 1997, a purported class of Texas workers' compensation insureds
filed a petition to intervene in a lawsuit pending since 1995 in District Court,
Travis County, Texas, entitled Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut v.
Texas Workers Compensation Insurance Facility. The pending lawsuit arose out of
a fee dispute between certain subsidiaries of the Company and the administration
of the Texas assigned risk pool. The proposed class challenges both the fees
paid to servicing carriers for the pool from 1991 to 1993 and certain premium
calculations on certain workers' compensation policies from 1991 forward. The
Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these actions and intends to
contest the allegations.

     In the ordinary course of business, certain of TAP's subsidiaries receive
claims asserting alleged injuries and damages from asbestos and other hazardous
waste and toxic 




substances. The environment surrounding the final resolution of these claims
continues to change. Currently, it is not possible to predict changes in the
legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of
asbestos and environmental claims. Such development will be affected by future
court decisions and interpretations and changes in Superfund and other
legislation. Because of these future unknowns, additional liabilities may arise
for amounts in excess of the current reserves. These additional amounts, or a
range of these additional amounts, cannot now be reasonably estimated, and could
result in a liability exceeding reserves by an amount that would be material to
the Company's operating results in a future period. However, the Company
believes that it is not likely that these claims will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity.

Other

     For information concerning a purported class action filed against Primerica
Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI"), a subsidiary of the Company, in connection
with the purchase by individuals of interests in oil and gas rights owned by
Basic Energy and Affiliated Resources Inc. ("BEAR") and a related complaint
filed by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., see the
descriptions that appear in the second paragraph on page 30 of the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995, the
fourth paragraph on page 25 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended March 31, 1996 and the third paragraph on page 34 of the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
1996, which descriptions are incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the
pertinent paragraphs of such filings is included as an exhibit to this Form
10-K. In McNeely v. BEAR, the parties have reached a settlement, subject to
court approval.

     The Company and various subsidiaries have also been named as defendants in
various matters incident to and typical of the businesses in which they are
engaged. These include numerous civil actions, arbitration proceedings and other
matters in which SBI and R-H have been named, arising in the normal course of
business out of activities as a broker and dealer in securities, as an
underwriter, as an investment banker or otherwise. These also include numerous
matters in which the Company's insurance subsidiaries are named, arising in the
normal course of their business. In the opinion of the Company's management,
none of these actions is expected to have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries.




Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     Not applicable.

                                     PART II
                                     -------

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific Stock
Exchange under the symbol "TRV." The high and low sale prices, as reported on
the consolidated transaction reporting system, for the common stock of the
Company for the periods indicated, and the dividends per share, are set forth
below.

     In January 1996, the Company's Board of Directors declared a three-for-two
split in the Company's common stock, paid in the form of a 50% stock dividend in
May 1996. In October 1996, the Company's Board of Directors declared a
four-for-three split in the Company's common stock, paid in the form of a 33
1/3% stock dividend in November 1996. Both splits combined are the equivalent of
a two-for-one stock split. All amounts have been adjusted to give retroactive
effect to the two stock splits effected in 1996.



- -------------------------------
*    Through March 5, 1997.

     At March 5, 1997, the Company had approximately 55,100 common stockholders
of record. This figure does not represent the actual number of beneficial owners
of common stock because shares are frequently held in "street name" by
securities dealers and others for the benefit of individual owners who may vote
the shares.

     For information on dividend restrictions in certain long-term loan and
credit agreements of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as restrictions
on the ability of certain of the Company's subsidiaries to transfer funds to the
Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."




Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     See "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page 32 of the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders (the "1996 Annual Report"),
included as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" beginning on page 33 of the 1996 Annual Report, included
as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1
hereof. There is also incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item
the material under the caption "Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)"
on page 77 of the 1996 Annual Report, which material is included as part of
Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III
                                    --------

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     For information on the directors of the Company, see the material under the
caption "Election of Directors," in the definitive Proxy Statement for the
Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 23, 1997, filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Proxy Statement"),
incorporated herein by reference. For information on executive officers, see
Item 1, "Business -- Other Information -- Executive Officers of the Company"
herein.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     See the material under the caption "Executive Compensation" of the Proxy
Statement, incorporated herein by reference.




Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     See the material under the captions "Voting Rights," "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" of the Proxy
Statement, incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     See the material under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Executive
Compensation" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV
                                     -------

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)  Documents filed as a part of the report:

          (1)  Financial Statements. See Index to Consolidated Financial
               Statements and Schedules on page F-1 hereof.

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules. See Index to Consolidated
               Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 hereof.

          (3)  Exhibits:

               See Exhibit Index.

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

          No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1996.




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

3.01           Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Travelers
               Group Inc. (formerly The Travelers Inc.) (the
               "Company"), Certificate of Designation of
               Cumulative Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, Series
               Y, and Certificate of Amendment to the Restated
               Certificate of Incorporation, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 3.01 to Amendment No. 1 to
               the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4
               (No. 333-00737).

3.02           By-Laws of the Company as amended through January
               24, 1996, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               3.02 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (File
               No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1995 10-K").

10.01*         Employment Protection Agreement, dated as of
               December 31, 1987, between the Company (as
               successor to Commercial Credit Company ("CCC"))
               and Sanford I. Weill, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.03 to CCC's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987 (File
               No. 1-6594).

10.02.1*       Travelers Group Stock Option Plan (as amended and      Electronic
               restated as of April 24, 1996).

10.02.2*       Amendment No. 14 to the Travelers Group Stock
               Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.01 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
               10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30,
               1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's September
               30, 1996 10-Q").

10.03*         Travelers Group 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (as          Electronic
               amended through November 22, 1996).

10.04*         Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan of the            Electronic
               Company (as amended and restated as of January
               1, 1994).




Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

10.05*         Letter Agreement between Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
               and the Company, dated December 14, 1988,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21.1 to
               the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1988 (File No.
               1-9924).

10.06*         Travelers Group Inc. Amended and Restated
               Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02 to the
               Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.

10.07.1*       Supplemental Retirement Plan of the Company,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1990 (File No.
               1-9924).

10.07.2*       Amendment to the Company's Supplemental Retirement
               Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.06.2
               to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-9924)
               (the "Company's 1993 10-K").

10.08*         The Travelers Inc. Executive Performance
               Compensation Plan, effective April 27, 1994,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.07 to the
               Company's 1995 10-K.

10.09*         Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan (as
               amended through September 25, 1996), incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's
               September 30, 1996 10-Q.

10.10*         Agreement dated December 21, 1993 between the
               Company and Edward H. Budd, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's 1993
               10-K.

10.11*         The Travelers Inc. Deferred Compensation and
               Partnership Participation Plan, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Company's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K/A-1 for the fiscal year ended
               December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-9924).




Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

10.12.1        Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 28,
               1995, between The Travelers Insurance Group Inc.
               and Aetna Life and Casualty Company, incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Annual Report
               on Form 10-K of Aetna Life and Casualty Company
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (File
               No. 1-5704).

10.12.2        Assignment of Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
               of March 22, 1996, between Travelers Property
               Casualty Corp. (formerly Travelers/Aetna Property
               Casualty Corp.) ("TAP") and The Travelers
               Insurance Group Inc., incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 2.2 to Amendment No. 5 of the Registration
               Statement on Form S-1 of TAP (No. 333-2254).

10.12.3        Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of
               April 2, 1996, between TAP and Aetna Casualty and
               Surety Company, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31,
               1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's March 31,
               1996 10-Q").

10.13*         The Travelers Corporation 1984 Management
               Incentive Plan, as amended effective January 1,
               1991, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)
               to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers
               Corporation ("old Travelers") for the fiscal year 
               ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-5799).

10.14*         The Travelers Corporation Supplemental Benefit
               Plan, effective December 20, 1992, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on
               Form 10-K of old Travelers for the fiscal year
               ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-5799).

10.15*         The Travelers Corporation TESIP Restoration and
               Non-Qualified Savings Plan, effective January 1,
               1991, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)
               to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old Travelers
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991 (File
               No. 1-5799).




Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

10.16*         The Travelers Corporation Directors' Deferred
               Compensation Plan, as amended November 7, 1986,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
               Annual Report on Form 10-K of old Travelers for
               the fiscal year ended December 31, 1986 (File No.
               1-5799).

10.17*         Employment Agreement dated as of December 30,
               1994, between SBI and Joseph J. Plumeri II,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (File No.
               1-9924).

10.18          Letter Agreement, dated as of January 13, 1997,        Electronic
               between the Company and Jon C. Madonna.

10.19*         Travelers Property Casualty Corp. Capital
               Accumulation Plan (as amended through September 1,
               1996), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01
               to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Travelers
               Property Casualty Corp. (formerly Travelers/Aetna
               Property Casualty Corp.) for the fiscal quarter 
               ended September 30, 1996 (File No. 1-14328).

11.01          Computation of Earnings Per Share.                     Electronic

12.01          Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.     Electronic

13.01          Pages 32 through 78 of the 1996 Annual Report to       Electronic
               Stockholders of the Company (pagination of exhibit
               does not correspond to pagination in the 1996
               Annual Report to Stockholders).

21.01          Subsidiaries of the Company.                           Electronic

23.01          Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent          Electronic
               Certified Public Accountants.

24.01          Powers of Attorney.                                    Electronic

27.01          Financial Data Schedule.                               Electronic

99.01          The fourth paragraph on page 26 of the Company's       Electronic
               September 30, 1993 10-Q, the first paragraph under
               the heading "Smith Barney" on page 65 of the
               Company's 1995 10-K and the first paragraph on
               page 34 of the Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.




Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

99.02          The third paragraph on page 16 of the Quarterly        Electronic
               Report on Form 10-Q of Smith Barney Holdings Inc.
               for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1994
               and the last full paragraph on page 65 of the
               Company's 1995 10-K.

99.03          The first paragraph on page 35 of the Company's        Electronic
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
               quarter ended June 30, 1996 (the "Company's June
               30, 1996 10-Q").

99.04          The paragraph that begins on page 2 and ends on        Electronic
               page 3 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
               dated March 1, 1994.

99.05          The paragraph that begins on page 90 and ends on       Electronic
               page 91 of the Prospectus dated April 22, 1996 of
               TAP, the second paragraph on page 35 of the
               Company's June 30, 1996 10-Q and the second
               paragraph on page 34 of the Company's September
               30, 1996 10-Q.

99.06          The second paragraph on page 30 of the Company's       Electronic
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
               quarter ended September 30, 1995, the fourth
               paragraph on page 25 of the Company's March 31,
               1996 10-Q and the third paragraph on page 34 of
               the Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.

     The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any instrument
     defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company does not exceed
     10% of the total assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.
     The Company will furnish copies of any such instrument to the Commission
     upon request.

     The financial statements required by Form 11-K for 1996 for the Company's
     employee savings plan will be filed as an exhibit by amendment to this Form
     10-K pursuant to Rule 15d-21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
     amended.

     Copies of any of the exhibits referred to above will be furnished at a cost
     of $.25 per page (although no charge will be made for the 1996 Annual
     Report on Form 10-K) to security holders who make written request therefor
     to Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Department, Travelers
     Group Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013.

- ----------
*    Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
     to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 26th day of
March, 1997.

                                   TRAVELERS GROUP INC.
                                   (Registrant)

                                   By:  /s/ Sanford I. Weill
                                        ........................................
                                        Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of
                                        the Board and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 26th day of March, 1997.

          Signature                             Title
          ---------                             -----

     /s/ Sanford I. Weill
 ..................................      Chairman of the Board, Chief 
     Sanford I. Weill                     Executive Officer (Principal Executive
                                          Officer) and Director

     /s/ Heidi G. Miller
 ..................................      Senior Vice President and Chief 
     Heidi G. Miller                      Financial Officer (Principal Financial
                                          Officer)

     /s/ Irwin Ettinger
 ..................................      Executive  Vice  President  and Chief
     Irwin Ettinger                       Accounting Officer (Principal
                                          Accounting Officer)

               *
 ..................................      Director
     C. Michael Armstrong

               *
 ..................................      Director
     Kenneth J. Bialkin




          Signature                     Title
          ---------                     -----
             *
 ..................................      Director
     Edward H. Budd

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Joseph A. Califano, Jr.

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Douglas D. Danforth

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Robert F. Daniell

     /s/ James Dimon
 ..................................      Director
     James Dimon

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Leslie B. Disharoon

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Gerald R. Ford

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Ann Dibble Jordan




          Signature                     Title
          ---------                     -----
             *
 ..................................      Director
     Robert I. Lipp

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Dudley C. Mecum

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Andrall E. Pearson

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Frank J. Tasco

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Linda J. Wachner

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Joseph R. Wright, Jr.

             *
 ..................................      Director
     Arthur Zankel


*By: /s/ James Dimon
     ..................................
     James Dimon
     Attorney-in-fact




                      Travelers Group Inc. and Subsidiaries

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES*

                        ---------------------------------


                                                                Incorporated
                                                              By Reference from
                                                              the Company's 1996
                                                               Annual Report to
                                                Page           Stockholders at
                                               Herein           Page Indicated
                                               ------           --------------
Independent Auditors' Report                    F-2                  78

Consolidated Statement of Income 
for the year ended December 
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994                                              49

Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position at
December 31, 1996 and 1995                                           50

Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Stockholders'
Equity for the year ended 
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994                                     51

Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows for the year ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994                                     52


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                         53-77


Schedules:
     Schedule I - Condensed Financial 
     Information of Registrant 
     (Parent Company only)                  F-3 - F-6

     Schedule III - Supplementary 
     Insurance Information                     F-7

     Schedule IV - Reinsurance                 F-8

*Schedules not listed are omitted as not applicable or not required by
Regulation S-X.


                          Independent Auditors' Report
                          ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Travelers Group Inc.:


Under date of January 17, 1997, we reported on the consolidated statement of
financial position of Travelers Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1996, as contained in the 1996 annual report to
stockholders. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1996.
In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedules as listed
in the accompanying index. These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
New York, New York
January 17, 1997


                                      F-2


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                              Travelers Group Inc.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                            (In millions of dollars)

                          Condensed Statement of Income



                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                             ----------------------------------
                                               1996         1995         1994
                                             --------     --------     --------
Revenues                                     $      1     $     (5)    $      3
                                             --------     --------     --------

Expenses:
- ---------
  Interest                                        162          129          120
  Other                                           126          104           87
                                             --------     --------     --------
    Total                                         288          233          207
                                             --------     --------     --------

Pre-tax loss                                     (287)        (238)        (204)
Income tax benefit                                103           85           82
                                             --------     --------     --------
Loss before equity in net income
  of subsidiaries                                (184)        (153)        (122)
Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  from continuing operations                    2,484        1,781        1,279
Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  from discontinued operations                     31          206          169
                                             --------     --------     --------
Net income                                   $  2,331     $  1,834     $  1,326
                                             ========     ========     ========

The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the accompanying notes
to the condensed financial information of Registrant.


                                      F-3


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                              Travelers Group Inc.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                            (In millions of dollars)

                    Condensed Statement of Financial Position



The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the accompanying notes
to the condensed financial information of Registrant.


                                      F-4


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                              Travelers Group Inc.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                            (In millions of dollars)

                        Condensed Statement of Cash Flows



The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the accompanying notes
to the condensed financial information of Registrant.


                                      F-5


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

              Notes to Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant



1.   Basis of Presentation
     ---------------------

     The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Travelers
     Group Inc. (the Parent) and on an equity basis its subsidiaries and
     affiliates and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
     Financial Statements and notes thereto.

2.   Supplementary Disclosure of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities
     -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     During 1994, the Parent issued $261 million of redeemable preferred stock
     to various subsidiaries in exchange for an equivalent value of Travelers
     Group Inc. common stock previously held by these subsidiaries. This
     activity was recorded as a non-cash capital contribution to subsidiaries by
     the Parent. During 1995, $35 million of this redeemable preferred stock was
     repurchased and retired.


                                      F-6


                                                                    SCHEDULE III

                      TRAVELERS GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Supplementary Insurance Information
                            (In millions of dollars)



*    Includes credit life insurance operations.


                                      F-7


                                                                     SCHEDULE IV

                      Travelers Group Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                   Reinsurance
                            (In millions of dollars)





                                 F-8


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

3.01           Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Travelers
               Group Inc. (formerly The Travelers Inc.) (the
               "Company"), Certificate of Designation of
               Cumulative Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, Series
               Y, and Certificate of Amendment to the Restated
               Certificate of Incorporation, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 3.01 to Amendment No. 1 to
               the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4
               (No. 333-00737).

3.02           By-Laws of the Company as amended through January
               24, 1996, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               3.02 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (File
               No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1995 10-K").

10.01*         Employment Protection Agreement, dated as of
               December 31, 1987, between the Company (as
               successor to Commercial Credit Company ("CCC"))
               and Sanford I. Weill, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.03 to CCC's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987 (File
               No. 1-6594).

10.02.1*       Travelers Group Stock Option Plan (as amended and      Electronic
               restated as of April 24, 1996).

10.02.2*       Amendment No. 14 to the Travelers Group Stock
               Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.01 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
               10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30,
               1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's September
               30, 1996 10-Q").

10.03*         Travelers Group 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (as          Electronic
               amended through November 22, 1996).

10.04*         Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan of the            Electronic
               Company (as amended and restated as of January
               1, 1994).


Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

10.05*         Letter Agreement between Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
               and the Company, dated December 14, 1988,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21.1 to
               the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1988 (File No.
               1-9924).

10.06*         Travelers Group Inc. Amended and Restated
               Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02 to the
               Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.

10.07.1*       Supplemental Retirement Plan of the Company,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1990 (File No.
               1-9924).

10.07.2*       Amendment to the Company's Supplemental Retirement
               Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.06.2
               to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-9924) 
               (the "Company's 1993 10-K").

10.08*         The Travelers Inc. Executive Performance
               Compensation Plan, effective April 27, 1994,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.07 to the
               Company's 1995 10-K.

10.09*         Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan (as
               amended through September 25, 1996), incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's
               September 30, 1996 10-Q.

10.10*         Agreement dated December 21, 1993 between the
               Company and Edward H. Budd, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's
               1993 10-K.

10.11*         The Travelers Inc. Deferred Compensation and
               Partnership Participation Plan, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Company's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K/A-1 for the fiscal year ended
               December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-9924).


Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

10.12.1        Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 28,
               1995, between The Travelers Insurance Group Inc.
               and Aetna Life and Casualty Company, incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Annual Report
               on Form 10-K of Aetna Life and Casualty Company
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (File
               No. 1-5704).

10.12.2        Assignment of Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
               of March 22, 1996, between Travelers Property
               Casualty Corp. (formerly Travelers/Aetna Property
               Casualty Corp.) ("TAP") and The Travelers
               Insurance Group Inc., incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 2.2 to Amendment No. 5 of the Registration
               Statement on Form S-1 of TAP (No. 333-2254).

10.12.3        Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of
               April 2, 1996, between TAP and Aetna Casualty and
               Surety Company, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31,
               1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's March 31,
               1996 10-Q").

10.13*         The Travelers Corporation 1984 Management
               Incentive Plan, as amended effective January 1,
               1991, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)
               to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers
               Corporation ("old Travelers") for the fiscal year 
               ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-5799).

10.14*         The Travelers Corporation Supplemental Benefit
               Plan, effective December 20, 1992, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on
               Form 10-K of old Travelers for the fiscal year
               ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-5799).

10.15*         The Travelers Corporation TESIP Restoration and
               Non-Qualified Savings Plan, effective January 1,
               1991, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)
               to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old Travelers
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991 (File
               No. 1-5799).


Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

10.16*         The Travelers Corporation Directors' Deferred
               Compensation Plan, as amended November 7, 1986,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
               Annual Report on Form 10-K of old Travelers for
               the fiscal year ended December 31, 1986 (File No.
               1-5799).

10.17*         Employment Agreement dated as of December 30,
               1994, between SBI and Joseph J. Plumeri II,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (File No.
               1-9924).

10.18          Letter Agreement, dated as of January 13, 1997,        Electronic
               between the Company and Jon C. Madonna.

10.19*         Travelers Property Casualty Corp. Capital
               Accumulation Plan (as amended through September 1,
               1996), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01
               to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Travelers
               Property Casualty Corp. (formerly Travelers/Aetna
               Property Casualty Corp.) for the fiscal quarter 
               ended September 30, 1996 (File No. 1-14328).

11.01          Computation of Earnings Per Share.                     Electronic

12.01          Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.     Electronic

13.01          Pages 32 through 78 of the 1996 Annual Report to       Electronic
               Stockholders of the Company (pagination of exhibit
               does not correspond to pagination in the 1996
               Annual Report to Stockholders).

21.01          Subsidiaries of the Company.                           Electronic

23.01          Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent          Electronic
               Certified Public Accountants.

24.01          Powers of Attorney.                                    Electronic

27.01          Financial Data Schedule.                               Electronic

99.01          The fourth paragraph on page 26 of the Company's       Electronic
               September 30, 1993 10-Q, the first paragraph under
               the heading "Smith Barney" on page 65 of the
               Company's 1995 10-K and the first paragraph on
               page 34 of the Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.

99.02          The third paragraph on page 16 of the Quarterly        Electronic
               Report on Form 10-Q of Smith Barney Holdings Inc.
               for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1994
               and the last full paragraph on page 65 of the
               Company's 1995 10-K.


Exhibit                                                                 Filing
Number         Description of Exhibit                                   Method
- ------         ----------------------                                   ------

99.03          The first paragraph on page 35 of the Company's        Electronic
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
               quarter ended June 30, 1996 (the "Company's June
               30, 1996 10-Q").

99.04          The paragraph that begins on page 2 and ends on        Electronic
               page 3 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
               dated March 1, 1994.

99.05          The paragraph that begins on page 90 and ends on       Electronic
               page 91 of the Prospectus dated April 22, 1996 of
               TAP, the second paragraph on page 35 of the
               Company's June 30, 1996 10-Q and the second
               paragraph on page 34 of the Company's September
               30, 1996 10-Q.

99.06          The second paragraph on page 30 of the Company's       Electronic
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
               quarter ended September 30, 1995, the fourth
               paragraph on page 25 of the Company's March 31,
               1996 10-Q and the third paragraph on page 34 of
               the Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.

     The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any instrument
     defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company does not exceed
     10% of the total assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.
     The Company will furnish copies of any such instrument to the Commission
     upon request.

     The financial statements required by Form 11-K for 1996 for the Company's
     employee savings plan will be filed as an exhibit by amendment to this Form
     10-K pursuant to Rule 15d-21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
     amended.

     Copies of any of the exhibits referred to above will be furnished at a cost
     of $.25 per page (although no charge will be made for the 1996 Annual
     Report on Form 10-K) to security holders who make written request therefor
     to Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Department, Travelers
     Group Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013.

- ----------
*    Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
     to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.



