
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                -----------------

                                    FORM 10-K

       |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                       OR
     |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the transition period from ______ to ______
                                ----------------

                          Commission file number 1-9924
                                ----------------

                              TRAVELERS GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                                          52-1568099
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
      incorporation or organization)              

                 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
                                 (212) 816-8000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                                ----------------
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                                    
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None


                           [Cover page 1 of 2 pages.]


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   NO
                                       ---     ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.|X|
           
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of March 4, 1998 was approximately $61.5 billion.

As of March 4, 1998, 1,152,647,587 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Part II
of this Form 10-K.

Certain portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held on April 22, 1998 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.

                           [Cover page 2 of 2 pages.]


                              TRAVELERS GROUP INC.

                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                     For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1997
                         ------------------------------

                                
Form 10-K
Item Number                                                           Page
- -----------                                                           ----

    Part I
    ------

1.  Business...........................................................   1
2   Properties.........................................................  70
3.  Legal Proceedings..................................................  71
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................  72
                                                                         
    Part II                                                              
    -------                                                              
                                                                         
5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and                            
      Related Stockholder Matters......................................  72
6.  Selected Financial Data............................................  73
7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial                    
      Condition and Results of Operations..............................  73
7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.........  73
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................  73
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on                     
      Accounting and Financial Disclosure..............................  73
                                                                         
    Part III                                                             
    --------                                                             
                                                                         
10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.................  74
11. Executive Compensation.............................................  74
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners                      
      and Management...................................................  74
13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.....................  74
                                                                         
    Part IV                                                              
    -------                                                              
                                                                         
14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports                 
      on Form 8-K......................................................  74
    Exhibit Index......................................................  76
    Signatures.........................................................  80
    Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules........... F-1
                                                                        


                                     PART I
                                     ------

Item 1. BUSINESS.

                                   THE COMPANY

      Travelers Group Inc. (the "Company") is a diversified financial services
holding company engaged, through its subsidiaries, principally in four business
segments: (i) Investment Services (primarily through Salomon Smith Barney
Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), including Asset Management; (ii) Consumer
Finance Services (primarily through Commercial Credit Company and its
subsidiaries); (iii) Property & Casualty Insurance Services (primarily through
Travelers Property Casualty Corp. and its subsidiaries); and (iv) Life Insurance
Services (primarily through The Travelers Insurance Company and its subsidiaries
and the Primerica Financial Services group of companies).

      On November 28, 1997, a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company was merged (the "Merger") into Salomon Inc ("Salomon"). Under the terms
of the Merger, approximately 188.5 million shares of Company common stock were
issued in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of Salomon common stock,
based on an exchange ratio of 1.695 shares of Company common stock for each
share of Salomon common stock, for a total value of approximately $9 billion.
Each of Salomon's series of preferred stock outstanding was exchanged for a
corresponding series of Company preferred stock having substantially identical
terms, except that the Company preferred stock issued in conjunction with the
Merger has certain voting rights. Thereafter, Smith Barney Holdings Inc. ("SB
Holdings"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, was merged into Salomon to
form Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc. ("SSBH"), which is the primary vehicle
through which the Company engages in investment banking, securities and
commodities trading, brokerage, asset management and other financial services
activities. The Merger constituted a tax-free exchange and was accounted for
under the pooling of interests method. This method of accounting requires the
restatement of all periods presented as if the Company and Salomon had always
been combined. For additional information about the Merger, see Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

      On July 31, 1997, Commercial Credit Company ("CCC") acquired Security
Pacific Financial Services from BankAmerica Corporation for a purchase price of
approximately $1.6 billion. The purchase included approximately $1.2 billion of
net consumer finance receivables. The excess of the purchase price over the
estimated fair value of net assets was $380 million and is being amortized over
25 years. The purchase price for the transaction was financed entirely by CCC,
except for an equity contribution by the Company of $520 million to CCC.

      During 1997, the Company continued and expanded the marketing of its
products through the various distribution channels offered by its subsidiaries,
primarily the independent agents of Primerica Financial Services (the "PFS sales
force") and the Financial Consultants of Salomon Smith Barney. The PFS sales
force distributes an array of financial products offered by other subsidiaries
of the Company, including mutual funds offered by Salomon Smith Barney, personal
lines property-casualty insurance (TRAVELERS SECURE(R)) offered by The Travelers
Indemnity Company ("Travelers Indemnity"), a subsidiary of Travelers Property
Casualty Corp. ("TAP"), and mortgage and personal loans ($.M.A.R.T. loan(R) and
$.A.F.E.(R) loan) underwritten by CCC. 


Qualified Salomon Smith Barney Financial Consultants offer individual insurance
products, primarily variable annuities, of Travelers Life and Annuity. For more
information on cross-marketing by the PFS sales force and Salomon Smith Barney,
see "Life Insurance Services -- Primerica Financial Services" and "Investment
Services -- Salomon Smith Barney." Travelers Group Diversified Distribution
Services, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, offers a bundled group of the
Company's products for sale to employees of other companies through a directed
sales effort and also facilitates the cross-marketing of the Company's products
by its subsidiaries.

      The periodic reports of CCC, SSBH, TAP, The Travelers Insurance Company
and The Travelers Life and Annuity Company, subsidiaries of the Company that
make filings pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act"), provide additional business and financial information
concerning those companies and their consolidated subsidiaries.

      The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 388
Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013; telephone number 212-816-8000.

      This discussion of the Company's business is organized as follows: (i) a
description of each of the Company's four business segments; (ii) a description
of the Corporate and Other Operations segment; and (iii) certain other
information.(1)

                               INVESTMENT SERVICES

      The Company's Investment Services segment includes the operations of SSBH
and its subsidiaries. As used herein, unless the context otherwise requires,
"Salomon Smith Barney" refers to SSBH and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Investment banking and securities trading activities are principally conducted
by Salomon Brothers Holding Company Inc ("SBHC") and its subsidiaries and Smith
Barney Inc. ("Smith Barney") and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies.
Salomon Smith Barney provides capital raising, advisory, research and brokerage
services to its customers, and executes proprietary trading strategies on its
own behalf. Salomon Smith Barney Asset Management provides its services
principally through Mutual Management Corp. (formerly Smith Barney Mutual Funds
Management Inc) ("MMC"), Smith Barney and Salomon Brothers Asset Management Inc
("Salomon Brothers Asset Management"). Salomon Smith Barney's commodities
trading business is conducted principally by Phibro Inc. and its subsidiaries
(collectively, "Phibro").

- ----------
(1) Certain items in this Form 10-K, including certain matters discussed under
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" (the "MD&A"), are forward-looking statements. The matters
referred to in such statements could be affected by the risks and uncertainties
involved in the Company's business, including the effect of economic and market
conditions, the level and volatility of interest rates and currency values, the
impact of current or pending legislation and regulation and the other risks and
uncertainties detailed in the Results of Operations section under the heading
"Outlook" for each business segment, and in the Forward-Looking Statements 
section of the MD&A.




Salomon Smith Barney

      Salomon Smith Barney is a global investment bank and broker-dealer that
operates through over 450 offices throughout the United States and 45 offices in
26 foreign countries. Its principal U.S. operating companies for the investment
banking, brokerage and trading operations are Smith Barney and Salomon Brothers
Inc ("SBI") in New York, as well as SBHC and Salomon Swapco Inc ("Swapco") in
New York, which act as counterparties for many of the derivative transactions to
which Salomon Smith Barney is a party, and The Robinson-Humphrey Company, LLC
("R-H"), a regional broker-dealer based in Atlanta. Salomon Forex Inc acts as
counterparty in many foreign exchange transactions. With approximately 10,300
Financial Consultants and approximately 875 institutional brokers, Salomon Smith
Barney believes that it is currently the second largest brokerage firm in the
United States.

      Salomon Smith Barney also maintains branches, subsidiaries, representative
offices or other operations in Australia, Bahrain, Canada, the Cayman Islands,
China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Republic of Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain,
Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand and the United Kingdom, and affiliates in
Argentina, Brazil, Indonesia and Republic of Korea. The principal operating
companies for these international operations are Salomon Brothers International
Limited ("SBIL"), Salomon Brothers Asia Limited ("SBAL"), Salomon Brothers Hong
Kong Limited ("SBHK") and Salomon Brothers AG ("SBAG"). SBIL is based in London
and primarily acts as a dealer and market maker in fixed income and equity
securities and related products, including derivative instruments, in the
international capital markets, as well as an underwriter and provider of
corporate finance services. SBAL, based in Tokyo, and SBHK, based in Hong Kong,
act as agent and for their own account in trading of fixed income and equity
securities, primarily in securities of issuers based in Japan and the Asia
Pacific region, respectively. SBAG, a German bank based in Frankfurt with
branches in Tokyo and Milan, acts as a broker and dealer in primarily domestic
German fixed income and equity securities and related products, including
derivative instruments, as well as an underwriter and provider of corporate
finance advisory services to international clients.

   Investment Banking and Trading

      Salomon Smith Barney's global investment banking services encompass a full
range of capital market activities, including the underwriting and distribution
of debt and equity securities for United States and foreign corporations and for
state, local and other governmental and government sponsored authorities.
Salomon Smith Barney frequently acts as an underwriter or private placement
agent in corporate and public securities offerings and provides alternative
financing options through bank and bridge loans. It also provides financial
advice to investment banking clients on a wide variety of transactions including
mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, leveraged buyouts, financial
restructurings and a variety of cross-border transactions.

      Salomon Smith Barney executes securities and commodity futures brokerage
transactions on all major United States securities and futures exchanges and
major international exchanges on behalf of customers and for its own account.
Salomon Smith Barney's significant capital base and




extensive distribution capabilities also enable it to provide liquidity to
investors across a broad range of markets and financial instruments, and to
execute capital-intensive transactions on behalf of its customers and for its
own account. It executes transactions in large blocks of exchange-listed stocks,
usually with institutional investors, and often acts as principal to facilitate
these transactions. It makes markets, buying and selling as principal, in over
1,550 equity securities traded on the NASDAQ system. Additionally, the firm
makes markets in convertible and preferred stocks, warrants and other equity
securities.

      Salomon Smith Barney also engages in principal transactions in fixed
income securities. Through its subsidiaries, it is a major dealer in government
securities in New York, London, Frankfurt and Tokyo. Salomon Smith Barney makes
inter-dealer markets and trades as principal in corporate debt and equity
securities, including those of United States and foreign corporate issuers,
United States and foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-related
securities, whole loans, municipal and other tax-exempt securities, commercial
paper and other money market instruments as well as emerging market debt
securities and foreign exchange. Salomon Smith Barney also enters into
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements to provide financing for itself and
its customers, and engages in securities lending and borrowing transactions.

      Salomon Smith Barney is a major participant in the over-the-counter
("OTC") market for derivative instruments involving a wide range of products,
including interest rate, equity and currency swaps, caps and floors, options,
warrants and other derivative products. It also creates and sells various types
of structured securities. Salomon Smith Barney's ability to execute transactions
is enhanced by its established presence in international capital markets, its
use of information technology and quantitative risk management tools, its
research capabilities, and its knowledge and experience in various derivative
markets.

      Salomon Smith Barney also trades for its own account in various markets
throughout the world, and uses many different strategies involving a broad
spectrum of financial instruments and derivative products. Historically, these
trading strategies have primarily involved the fixed income securities of the
G-7 countries, but they also involve the trading of fixed income securities
globally (including emerging markets) as well as currencies and equities.
Because these trading strategies are often designed with time horizons of one
year or more, profits or losses reported in interim periods can be volatile and
may not reflect the ultimate success or failure of these strategies. For a
discussion of certain of the risks involved in Salomon Smith Barney's securities
trading and investment activities, and the firm's strategies to manage these
risks, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations -- Investment Services -- Risk Management."

   Retail Brokerage and Related Services

      The Private Client Division provides investment advice and financial
planning and brokerage services for over five million client accounts, primarily
through the network of Salomon Smith Barney Financial Consultants. A significant
portion of Salomon Smith Barney's revenues is generated from the commissions
that it earns as a broker for its clients in the purchase and sale of




securities. Financing customers' securities transactions provides Salomon Smith
Barney with an additional source of income. While credit losses may arise as a
result of this financing activity, to date such losses have not been material.
The Financial Consultants also sell proprietary mutual funds and a large number
of mutual funds sponsored and managed by unaffiliated entities, and Salomon
Smith Barney receives commissions and other sales and services revenues from
these activities.

      Qualified Salomon Smith Barney Financial Consultants also offer individual
insurance products, primarily variable annuities. These products include, among
others, Travelers Life and Annuity's Vintage Life(R) and Vintage Annuity(R),
single premium variable annuity and universal life products, 401(k) Blueprint(R)
and Travelers Target Maturity(R), a market value-adjusted fixed annuity.

      Salomon Smith Barney's Corporate Client Group provides retirement plan
services and stock plan services to a wide variety of corporations. These
services involve the management of defined benefit and defined contribution plan
products such as 401(k) plans, as well as the administration of stock option and
other stock-based plans.

      In addition to more traditional brokerage services, Salomon Smith Barney
Financial Consultants also deliver the programs and services offered by Salomon
Smith Barney's Consulting Group ("CG"). CG, which has become an area of
specialization for many Salomon Smith Barney Financial Consultants, provides a
variety of investment management and consulting services to institutional and
individual clients. CG sponsors a number of different "wrap fee" programs, in
which CG and Salomon Smith Barney typically provide a range of services, such as
an analysis of the client's financial situation, investment needs and risk
tolerance; a recommendation and ongoing monitoring of the performance and
suitability of the investment manager(s) retained; and securities execution,
custody, reporting and recordkeeping. In such programs, the client generally
pays a single bundled fee for these services. CG also offers "wrap fee" programs
in which separate accounts are managed by selected, specially trained Salomon
Smith Barney Financial Consultants. Assets in the Financial Consultant managed
programs at December 31, 1997, totaled $11.6 billion, as compared to $7.9
billion and $5.6 billion at year-end 1996 and 1995, respectively. In addition,
CG provides traditional investment management consulting services to
institutions, including assisting clients in formulating investment objectives
and policies and in selecting investment management firms for the day-to-day
management of client portfolios. As of December 31, 1997, Salomon Smith Barney
provided consulting services with respect to externally managed client assets
aggregating approximately $49.2 billion, excluding the TRAK(R) program described
below, as compared to approximately $37.5 billion at December 31, 1996 and
approximately $30.5 billion at December 31, 1995.

      Salomon Smith Barney's TRAK(R) program provides clients with
non-discretionary asset allocation advice based on the client's identification
of investment objectives and risk tolerances. TRAK(R) clients include both
individuals and institutions, including participant-directed 401(k) plans.
Clients can choose to allocate assets among the CG Capital Markets funds, a
series of 13 mutual funds each corresponding to a particular asset class and
investment style, or from among the selected fund offerings of 37 no-load or
load-waived mutual fund families (including Smith Barney 




proprietary funds) corresponding to the same asset class and investment style
criteria. At December 31, 1997, TRAK(R) assets exceeded $10.5 billion, as
compared to approximately $6.6 billion at December 31, 1996 and approximately
$4.8 billion at December 31, 1995. Salomon Smith Barney also offers a separate
offshore TRAK(R) program to non-resident alien clients, which includes client
investment in a series of asset class/investment style funds domiciled outside
the United States.

   Salomon Smith Barney Asset Management

      Salomon Smith Barney provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset
management services to a wide array of mutual funds and institutional and
individual investors, with respect to domestic and foreign equity and debt
securities, municipal bonds, money market instruments, and related options and
futures contracts. Salomon Smith Barney receives ongoing fees, generally stated
as a percentage of the client's assets, from asset management clients. At
December 31, 1997, client assets managed by Salomon Smith Barney Asset
Management were approximately $152.5 billion, as compared to approximately
$126.5 billion at December 31, 1996 and approximately $107.1 billion at December
31, 1995. These amounts include separately managed accounts with assets of
approximately $54.1 billion at December 31, 1997, $44.5 billion at December 31,
1996 and $35.2 billion at December 31, 1995.

      The table below shows the aggregate assets in, and number of, mutual funds
managed by Salomon Smith Barney Asset Management at December 31 for each of the
last three years.

                                   Mutual Fund Assets Under Management
                                             December 31,
                               1997               1996                1995
                            -----------        -----------         ----------- 
                                         (Dollars in billions)
                           No. of              No. of              No. of
                           Funds  Assets       Funds  Assets       Funds  Assets
                           -----  ------       -----  ------       -----  ------
Money market                15     $46.5        13     $41.6        13     $35.8
Mutual funds               124      48.7       120      38.1       121      34.3
Annuities                   26       3.2        25       2.3        26       1.8
                            --   -------        --     -----        --   -------
         Total             165     $98.4       158     $82.0       160     $71.9
                           ===   =======       ===   =======       ===   =======

      Smith Barney Asset Management

      At December 31, 1997, Smith Barney sponsored 68 mutual funds (open-end
investment companies), including taxable and tax-exempt money market funds,
equity funds, taxable fixed income funds and tax-exempt fixed income funds
distributed primarily through Salomon Smith Barney Financial Consultants and the
PFS sales force, affiliates of the Company. MMC serves as the primary investment
manager to these mutual funds, as well as to eleven closed-end investment
companies, the shares of which are listed for trading on one or more securities
exchanges. In addition, at December 31, 1997, Salomon Smith Barney managed 26
mutual fund portfolios serving as funding vehicles for variable annuity
contracts, including certain variable annuities and other 




individual products of the Company's Travelers Life and Annuity unit (see "Life
Insurance Services"), which are sold by Salomon Smith Barney Financial
Consultants. Smith Barney Asset Management also sponsors and manages ten mutual
funds domiciled outside the United States, which are offered to Salomon Smith
Barney's non-resident alien client base as well as to the general public.

      In December 1997, Salomon Smith Barney acquired the mutual fund advisory
contracts for the Common Sense(R) Trust from Van Kampen American Capital. This
series of mutual funds is marketed exclusively by the PFS sales force, and had
$5.9 billion in assets at December 31, 1997. In January 1998 the name of these
funds was changed to Concert Investment Series(sm).

      Smith Barney Asset Management also provides separate account discretionary
and non-discretionary investment management services to a wide variety of
individual and institutional clients, including private and public retirement
plans, endowments, foundations, banks, central banks, insurance companies, other
corporations and governmental agencies. Client relationships may be introduced
either through Salomon Smith Barney's network of Financial Consultants or
independently of that network.

      Smith Barney Asset Management also sponsors and oversees the portfolios of
a large number of unit investment trusts, which are unmanaged investment
companies, the portfolios of which are generally static. Such unit investment
trusts may hold domestic and foreign equity and debt securities, including
municipal bonds. Certain trusts are sponsored and overseen solely by Smith
Barney Asset Management; other trusts are jointly sponsored through a syndicate
of major broker-dealers of which Smith Barney is a member. At December 31, 1997,
outstanding unit trust assets held by Smith Barney's clients were approximately
$11.8 billion, as compared to approximately $8.6 billion at December 31, 1996
and approximately $7.2 billion at December 31, 1995.

      Salomon Brothers Asset Management

      Salomon Brothers Asset Management provides separate account discretionary
and non-discretionary investment management services to pension funds,
investment companies, endowments, foundations, banks, central banks, insurance
companies, other corporations, governmental agencies and individuals. Client
relationships may be introduced through traditional independent consultant
evaluations as well as through the individual and institutional client
relationships of SBI.

      At December 31, 1997, Salomon Brothers Asset Management sponsored 18
mutual funds, including taxable and tax-exempt money market funds, equity funds,
taxable fixed income funds and tax-exempt fixed income funds distributed
primarily through dealer agreements with a variety of national and regional
brokerage firms, including Smith Barney. Salomon Brothers Asset Management
serves as investment manager to these mutual funds, as well as to 16 closed-end
investment companies, the shares of which are listed for trading on one or more
securities exchanges. Salomon Brothers Asset Management also manages 16 mutual
funds domiciled outside the United States, which are offered to Salomon Smith
Barney's non-resident alien client base as well as to the general public.




   Trust Services

      Certain subsidiaries of the Company are chartered as trust companies and
provide a full range of fiduciary services with a particular emphasis on
personal trust services. Another subsidiary of the Company offers a broad range
of trustee services for qualified retirement plans, with particular emphasis on
the 401(k) plan market. Each of these trust companies is subject to the
supervision of the state banking authority where it was chartered and uses the
distribution network of Salomon Smith Barney to market its services. Salomon
Smith Barney provides certain advisory and support services to the trust
companies and receives fees for such services. Certain subsidiaries of SSBH also
operate a private trust services business that is licensed as a bank and trust
company in the Cayman Islands.

Phibro and Other

      Phibro conducts a global commodities dealer business through its principal
offices in Westport (Connecticut), London and Singapore. Commodities traded
include crude oil, refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, metals and
various soft commodities. In December 1997, Phibro began implementing a
downsizing plan that will significantly reduce the scope of some of its
activities. In 1996, Phibro discontinued trading coal, coke and fertilizers.
Phibro makes extensive use of futures markets and is a participant in the OTC
derivatives market. Its principal competitors are major integrated oil
companies, other commodity trading companies, certain investment banks and other
financial institutions.

      As a dealer, Phibro's strategy is to focus on taking positions in
commodities on a longer-term horizon while also engaging in counterparty flow
business on a short-term basis. Phibro's operating results are subject to a high
degree of volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis, due to the predominance
of directional positions in commodities that have a longer-term horizon until
realization. Thus, results are better evaluated over the longer term.

      For a summary of Salomon Smith Barney's operations by geographic area, see
Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Derivatives and Risk Management

      Derivative instruments are contractual commitments or payment exchange
agreements between counterparties that "derive" their value from some underlying
asset, index, interest rate or exchange rate. Salomon Smith Barney enters into
various bilateral financial contracts involving future settlement, which are
based upon a predetermined principal or par value (referred to as the "notional"
amount). Such instruments include swaps, swap options, caps and floors, futures
contracts, forward purchase and sale agreements, option contracts and warrants.
Derivatives activities, like Salomon Smith Barney's other ongoing business
activities, give rise to market, credit and operational risks, although Salomon
Smith Barney also uses derivative instruments to manage these risks in its other
businesses. For a more complete discussion of Salomon Smith Barney's use 




of derivative financial instruments and certain of the related risks, see Item
7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and Notes 1, 5, 11 and 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Competition

      The businesses in which Salomon Smith Barney is engaged are highly
competitive. The principal factors affecting competition in the investment
banking and brokerage industry are the quality and ability of professional
personnel and the relative prices of services and products offered. In addition
to competition from other investment banking firms, both domestic and
international, and securities brokerage companies and discount securities
brokerage operations, including regional firms in the United States, there has
been increasing competition from other sources, such as commercial banks,
insurance companies and other major companies that have entered the investment
banking and securities brokerage industry, in many cases through acquisitions.
Certain of those competitors may have greater capital and other resources than
Salomon Smith Barney. The Federal Reserve Board has substantially removed the
barrier originally erected by the Glass-Steagall Act restricting investment
banking activities of commercial banks and their affiliates, by permitting
certain commercial banks to engage, through affiliates, in the underwriting of
and dealing in certain types of securities, subject to certain limitations.
Proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress from time to time that
would modify certain other provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act and other laws
and regulations affecting the financial services industry. The potential impact
of such legislation on Salomon Smith Barney's businesses cannot be predicted at
this time.

      Competitors of the Salomon Brothers and Smith Barney mutual funds and
asset management groups include a large number of mutual fund management and
sales companies, asset management firms and banks. Competition in mutual fund
sales and investment management is based on investment performance, service to
clients and product design.

Regulation

      Certain U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities
and commodities regulations and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the
regulatory and exchange authorities of the jurisdictions in which they operate.
SSBH's principal regulated subsidiaries are discussed below.

      Certain of SSBH's subsidiaries are registered as broker-dealers and as
investment advisers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")
and as futures commission merchants and as commodity pool operators with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"). SBI, Smith Barney and R-H are
members of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") and other principal
United States securities exchanges, as well as the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") and the National Futures Association ("NFA"),
a not-for-profit membership corporation designated as a registered futures
association by the CFTC. SBI, Smith Barney and R-H are registered as
broker-dealers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and
in addition are registered as investment advisers in certain states that require
such 




registration. Smith Barney is also a registered broker-dealer in Guam. Smith
Barney and SBI are also reporting dealers to the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York and members of the principal United States futures exchanges. SBI, Smith
Barney and R-H are subject to extensive regulation, primarily for the benefit of
their customers, including minimum capital requirements, which are promulgated
and enforced by, among others, the SEC, the CFTC, the NFA, the NYSE, various
self-regulatory organizations of which these subsidiaries are members and the
securities administrators of the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto
Rico and, in Smith Barney's case, Guam. The SEC and the CFTC also require
certain registered broker-dealers (including SBI and Smith Barney) to maintain
records concerning certain financial and securities activities of affiliated
companies that may be material to the broker-dealer, and to file certain
financial and other information regarding such affiliated companies.

      Salomon Smith Barney's operations abroad are conducted through various
subsidiaries, principally SBIL in London, SBAL in Tokyo and SBAG in Frankfurt.
Its activities in the United Kingdom, which include investment banking, trading,
brokerage and asset management services, are subject to the Financial Services
Act 1986, which regulates organizations that conduct investment businesses in
the United Kingdom (including imposing capital and liquidity requirements), and
to the rules of the Securities and Futures Authority and the Investment
Management Regulatory Organisation. SBAL is a licensed foreign securities
company in Japan and, as such, its activities in Japan are subject to Japanese
law applicable to non-Japanese securities firms and are regulated by the
Japanese Ministry of Finance. SBAG is a German bank, principally engaged in
securities trading and investment banking and is regulated by Germany's Banking
Supervisory Authority. These and other subsidiaries of SSBH are also members of
various securities and commodities exchanges and are subject to the rules and
regulations of those exchanges. Salomon Smith Barney's other offices are also
subject to the jurisdiction of local financial services regulatory authorities.

      In connection with the mutual funds business, SSBH and its subsidiaries
must comply with regulations of a number of regulatory agencies and
organizations, including the SEC, the NASD and regulatory agencies in the United
Kingdom and Germany. SSBH is the direct or indirect parent of investment
advisers registered and regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and
of companies that distribute shares of mutual funds pursuant to distribution
agreements subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Under
those Acts, the advisory contracts between SSBH's investment adviser
subsidiaries and the mutual funds they serve ("Affiliated Funds"), as well as
the mutual fund distribution agreements, would automatically terminate upon an
assignment of such contracts by the investment adviser or the fund distribution
company, as the case may be. Such an assignment would be presumed to have
occurred if any party were to acquire more than 25% of the Company's voting
securities. In that event, consent to the assignment from the shareholders of
the Affiliated Funds involved would be needed for the advisory and distribution
relationships to continue. In addition, Smith Barney, SBI, MMC, Salomon Brothers
Asset Management and the Affiliated Funds are subject to certain restrictions in
their dealings with each other. For example, Smith Barney or SBI may act as
broker to an Affiliated Fund in a transaction involving an exchange-traded
security only when that fund maintains procedures that govern, among other
things, the execution price of the transaction and the commissions paid; it may
not, however, conduct principal transactions with an Affiliated Fund. Further,
an Affiliated Fund may acquire 




securities during the existence of an underwriting where Smith Barney or SBI is
a principal underwriter only in certain limited situations.

      SBI, Smith Barney and R-H are members of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), which, in the event of liquidation of a
broker-dealer, provides protection for customers' securities accounts held by
the firm of up to $500,000 for each eligible customer, subject to a limitation
of $100,000 for claims for cash balances. In addition, SSBH has purchased
additional coverage of up to $150 million for eligible customers, approximately
$50 million of which is from a subsidiary of the Company.

      President Clinton's recent budget proposal (the "Budget Proposal")
contains a number of tax provisions that could adversely impact Salomon Smith
Barney, including provisions relating to tax-exempt interest obligations and
variable annuities. The Budget Proposal, which is in its early stages of
consideration, has not yet been introduced as part of any legislation in
Congress but has engendered considerable opposition from the public and members
of Congress.

   Capital Requirements

      As registered broker-dealers, SBI, Smith Barney and R-H are subject to the
SEC's net capital rule, Rule 15c3-1 (the "Net Capital Rule"), promulgated under
the Exchange Act. These companies compute net capital under the alternative
method of the Net Capital Rule, which requires the maintenance of minimum net
capital, as defined. A member of the NYSE may be required to reduce its business
if its net capital is less than 4% of aggregate debit balances (as defined) and
may also be prohibited from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if
resulting net capital would be less than 5% of aggregate debit balances.
Furthermore, the Net Capital Rule does not permit withdrawal of equity or
subordinated capital if the resulting net capital would be less than 5% of such
debit balances.

      The Net Capital Rule also limits the ability of broker-dealers to transfer
large amounts of capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Under the Net
Capital Rule, equity capital cannot be withdrawn from a broker-dealer without
the prior approval of the SEC in certain circumstances, including when net
capital after the withdrawal would be less than (i) 120% of the minimum net
capital required by the Net Capital Rule, or (ii) 25% of the broker-dealer's
securities position "haircuts," i.e., deductions from capital of certain
specified percentages of the market value of securities to reflect the
possibility of a market decline prior to disposition. In addition, the Net
Capital Rule requires broker-dealers to notify the SEC and the appropriate
self-regulatory organization two business days before a withdrawal of excess net
capital if the withdrawal would exceed the greater of $500,000 or 30% of the
broker-dealer's excess net capital, and two business days after a withdrawal
that exceeds the greater of $500,000 or 20% of excess net capital. Finally, the
Net Capital Rule authorizes the SEC to order a freeze on the transfer of capital
if a broker-dealer plans a withdrawal of more than 30% of its excess net capital
and the SEC believes that such a withdrawal would be detrimental to the
financial integrity of the firm or would jeopardize the broker-dealer's ability
to pay its customers.




      Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit those operations of the
Company that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and
trading activities and the financing of customer account balances, and also
could restrict SSBH's ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer
subsidiaries, which in turn could limit SSBH's ability to pay dividends and make
payments on its debt. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
At December 31, 1997, SBI and Smith Barney had net capital, computed in
accordance with the Net Capital Rule, of $1.047 billion and $1.086 billion,
respectively, which exceeded the minimum net capital requirement by $974 million
and $884 million, respectively. The net capital of R-H was $66 million above its
minimum requirement.

      SBAL, SBIL and SBAG are also subject to regulation in the countries in
which they do business. Such regulations include requirements to maintain
specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. At December 31, 1997, SBAL's
regulatory capital was $307 million above the minimum required by Japan's
Ministry of Finance. SBIL's regulatory capital was $699 million above the
minimum required by the Securities and Futures Authority, and SBAG's regulatory
capital was $32 million above the minimum required by Germany's Banking
Supervisory Authority.

      In addition, in order to maintain its triple-A rating, Swapco, an indirect
wholly owned subsidiary of SSBH, must maintain minimum levels of capital in
accordance with agreements with its rating agencies. At December 31, 1997,
Swapco was in compliance with all such agreements. Swapco's capital requirements
are dynamic, varying with the size and concentration of its counterparty
receivables.

                            CONSUMER FINANCE SERVICES

      The Company's Consumer Finance Services segment includes consumer lending
services conducted primarily under the name "Commercial Credit," as well as
credit-related insurance and credit card services. CCC's predecessor was founded
in 1912.

Consumer Finance

      As of December 31, 1997, CCC maintained 1,026 loan offices in 45 states,
including 24 servicing centers for loans sold through the PFS sales force. This
includes a net increase of approximately 175 loan offices from the July 1997
acquisition of Security Pacific Financial Services. CCC owns one state-chartered
bank and one federally chartered savings bank, each headquartered in Newark,
Delaware.

      Loans to consumers include both fixed and variable rate real
estate-secured loans, both fixed and variable rate unsecured and partially
secured personal loans and fixed rate loans to finance consumer goods purchases.
Travelers Bank & Trust, fsb (formerly The Travelers Bank), a federal savings
bank and a subsidiary of CCC, and The Travelers Bank USA, also a subsidiary of
CCC (together, the "Banks"), provide credit card loans as discussed below. CCC's
loan offices are generally located in small to medium-sized communities in
suburban or rural areas, and are managed by individuals who generally have
considerable consumer lending experience. The primary market




for consumer loan customers consists of households with an annual income of
$20,000 to $50,000. The number of active loan customers (excluding credit card
customers) was approximately 1,924,000 at December 31, 1997, as compared to
approximately 1,333,000 at December 31, 1996 and approximately 1,275,000 at
December 31, 1995. CCC also operates an agency that performs appraisals, sells
title insurance and provides other closing-related services for CCC's real
estate loans.

      The $.M.A.R.T. loan(R) and $.A.F.E.(R) loan programs involve the
solicitation of applications for mortgage and personal loans exclusively through
the PFS sales force. At December 31, 1997, the total loans outstanding generated
from this program were $2.264 billion, or approximately 21% of total loans
outstanding, as compared to $1.524 billion, or approximately 19%, at December
31, 1996 and $1.258 billion, or approximately 17%, at December 31, 1995. See
"Life Insurance Services -- Primerica Financial Services." Since early 1998, all
new $.M.A.R.T. loan(R) business is being written through Travelers Bank & Trust,
fsb.

      The average amount of cash advanced per real estate-secured loan made was
approximately $44,700 in 1997, $35,800 in 1996 and $26,300 in 1995. The average
amount of cash advanced per personal loan made was approximately $4,400 in 1997,
$4,250 in 1996 and $4,200 in 1995. The average real estate-secured loan size
increased in 1997 and 1996 due to marketing initiatives that attracted customers
for higher balance loans, particularly in first mortgage programs. The average
annual yield for loans in 1997 was 14.58%, as compared to 15.24% in 1996 and
15.64% in 1995. The average annual yield for real estate-secured loans in 1997
was 11.73%, as compared to 12.13% in 1996 and 12.33% in 1995, and for personal
loans it was 19.66% in 1997, as compared to 19.95% in 1996 and 20.23% in 1995.
The average yield for real estate-secured loans has been affected by the normal
run-off of older, higher yielding loans and growth in lower yielding, higher
quality loans, while the average yield for personal loans has been affected by a
shift in the portfolio to loans partially secured by real estate (classified as
personal loans) as well as the industry trends associated with a high level of
personal bankruptcies. Consumer Finance Services' average net interest margin
for loans was 8.14% in 1997, 8.64% in 1996 and 8.79% in 1995.

      As a result of the Security Pacific acquisition, charge-offs in the second
half of 1997 reflect a short-term benefit largely from the transition of that
portfolio to CCC's charge-off policies. As a result, the Company expects the
charge-off rate to increase somewhat in the first half of 1998. See "--
Delinquent Receivables and Loss Experience."

   Analysis of Consumer Finance Receivables

      For an analysis of consumer finance receivables, net of unearned finance
charges ("Consumer Finance Receivables"), see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.




   Delinquent Receivables and Loss Experience

      Due to the nature of the finance business, some customer delinquency and
loss is unavoidable. The management of the consumer finance business attempts to
control customer delinquencies through careful evaluation of each borrower's
application and credit history at the time the loan is made or acquired, and
appropriate collection activity. An account is considered delinquent for
financial reporting purposes when a payment is more than 60 days past due, based
on the original or extended terms of the contract. The delinquency and loss
experience on real estate-secured loans is generally more favorable than on
personal loans.

      The following table sets forth the ratio of receivables delinquent for 60
days or more on a contractual basis (i.e., more than 60 days past due) to gross
receivables outstanding:

            Ratio of Receivables Delinquent 60 Days or More to Gross
                          Receivables Outstanding (1)

                                   Real
                                   Estate-
                         Personal  Secured      Credit      Sales       Total
As of December 31,       Loans     Loans        Cards       Finance     Consumer
- ------------------       -----     -----        -----       -------     --------
    1997                 3.41%     1.61%        1.41%        2.49%      2.35%
    1996                 3.42%     1.50%        1.44%        2.27%      2.38%
    1995                 2.89%     1.42%        1.40%        2.17%      2.14%

- ----------
(1)   The receivable balance used for these ratios is before the deduction of
      unearned finance charges and excludes accrued interest receivable.
      Receivables delinquent 60 days or more include, for all periods presented,
      accounts in the process of foreclosure.

      The following table sets forth the ratio of net charge-offs to average
Consumer Finance Receivables. For all periods presented, the ratios shown give
effect to all deferred origination costs.

        Ratio of Net Charge-Offs to Average Consumer Finance Receivables

                               Real
                               Estate-
Year Ended        Personal     Secured      Credit       Sales        Total
December 31,      Loans        Loans        Cards        Finance      Consumer
- ------------      -----        -----        -----        -------      --------
   1997           5.39%        0.41%        2.66%        2.86%        2.65%
   1996           5.46%        0.50%        2.75%        3.34%        2.91%
   1995           4.01%        0.64%        2.04%        2.46%        2.28%




      The following table sets forth information regarding the ratio of
allowance for losses to Consumer Finance Receivables:

          Ratio of Allowance For Losses to Consumer Finance Receivables

                                 As of December 31,
                                ------------------
                                   1997   2.91%
                                   1996   2.97%
                                   1995   2.66%
                                        
Credit-Related Insurance

      American Health and Life Insurance Company ("AHL"), a subsidiary of CCC,
underwrites or arranges for credit-related insurance, which is offered to
customers of the consumer finance business. AHL has an A+ (superior) rating from
A.M. Best Company ("A.M. Best"), whose ratings may be revised or withdrawn at
any time. At a minimum, credit life insurance covers the declining balance of
unpaid indebtedness. Credit disability insurance provides monthly benefits
during periods of covered disability. Credit property insurance covers the loss
of property given as security for loans. Other insurance products offered or
arranged for by AHL primarily include auto single interest and involuntary
unemployment insurance. Most of AHL's products are single premium, which
premiums are earned over the related contract period. See "Life Insurance
Services" for information concerning life insurance other than credit-related
insurance.

      The following table sets forth gross written insurance premiums, net of
refunds, for consumer finance customers:

                   Consumer Finance Insurance Premiums Written
                                  (In millions)
                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   1997        1996      1995
                                                   ----        ----      ----
Premiums written by AHL and its affiliates 
  Writings for consumer finance:
           Credit life                            $   65.4  $   42.7  $   41.8
           Credit disability and other                91.0      63.1      63.6
           Credit property and other                  51.5      18.0       4.1
                                                  --------  --------  --------
                 Total                            $  207.9  $  123.8  $  109.5
                                                  ========  ========  ========
Premiums written by other insurance companies
           Credit property and other              $   26.9  $   42.9  $   51.6
                                                  ========  ========  ========
                                                       

      The increase in premiums year-over-year is the result of growth in
receivables and expanded availability of certain products in additional states.




Credit Card and Other Services

      Travelers Bank & Trust, fsb ("Travelers Bank & Trust") is a federally
chartered savings bank located in Newark, Delaware, which provides credit card
services, including upper market gold credit card services, to individuals and
to affinity groups (such as nationwide professional associations and fraternal
organizations). Travelers Bank & Trust was granted a federal savings bank
charter on November 25, 1997, upon conversion of The Travelers Bank, a Delaware
state-chartered bank. The Travelers Bank USA is a state-chartered bank located
in Newark, Delaware, which also provides credit card services and loans to
finance consumer goods purchases. Although the Banks have historically limited
their activities to credit card operations, since early 1998, all new $.M.A.R.T.
loan(R) business is being written through Travelers Bank & Trust.

      The following table sets forth aggregate information regarding credit
cards issued by the Banks.

                    Credit Cardholders and Total Outstandings
                              (Dollars in millions)

                                      As of, or for the year ended, December 31,
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                            1997           1996          1995
                                            ----           ----          ----
Approximate total credit cardholders       984,000        791,000      753,000
Approximate gold credit cardholders        792,000        642,000      615,000
Total outstandings                        $1,164.6         $907.1       $761.8
Average annual yield                         10.81%         11.82%       12.51%

      The decrease in the average annual yield in 1997 and 1996 primarily
resulted from the offering of promotional rates in both years to encourage the
transfer of credit card balances to the Banks. The primary market for the Banks'
credit cards consists of households with annual incomes of $40,000 and above.

      The Banks offer deposit-taking services (which as to The Travelers Bank
USA are limited to deposits of at least $100,000 per account). At December 31,
1997, deposits of unaffiliated entities were $45.0 million, as compared to $81.9
million at December 31, 1996 and $97.9 million at December 31, 1995.

      In March 1998, the Banks entered into a securitized transaction pursuant
to which they transferred approximately $356.5 million of their credit card
receivables to an affiliated special purpose corporation, which transferred such
receivables to a trust. The trust then sold to the public $227.5 million of
securities securitized by such receivables.

Competition

            The consumer finance business competes with banks, savings and loan
associations, credit unions, credit card issuers and other consumer finance
companies. Additionally, substantial national 




financial services networks have been formed by major brokerage firms, insurance
companies, retailers and bank holding companies. Some competitors have
substantial local market positions; others are part of large, diversified
organizations. Deregulation of banking institutions has greatly expanded the
consumer lending products permitted to be offered by these institutions, and
because of their long-standing insured deposit base, many of them are able to
offer financial services on very competitive terms. The Company believes that it
is able to compete effectively with such institutions. In particular, the
Company believes that the diversity and features of the products it offers,
personal service, and cultivation of repeat and referral business support and
strengthen its competitive position in its consumer finance businesses.

Regulation

      Most consumer finance activities are subject to extensive federal and
state regulation, including examination and review by state authorities of
consumer finance offices. Personal loan, real estate-secured loan and sales
finance laws generally require licensing of the lender, limitations on the
amount, duration and charges for various categories of loans, adequate
disclosure of certain contract terms and limitations on certain collection
practices and creditor remedies. Federal consumer credit statutes primarily
require disclosure of credit terms in consumer finance transactions. The
Travelers Bank USA, a credit card bank, must undergo periodic examination by the
Delaware State Bank Commissioner and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Travelers Bank & Trust is subject to regulation and examination by the Office of
Thrift Supervision. The Banks are subject to additional regulations relating to
capitalization, leverage, reporting, dividends and permitted asset and liability
products. The Banks are also subject to the Community Reinvestment Act, which
assesses the records of the Banks in helping to meet the credit needs in the
delineated community of the Banks, including low and moderate income
neighborhoods, consistent with a safe and sound banking operation. In addition,
a number of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations are
applicable to the Banks including the Truth in Lending Act, which requires
disclosure to the consumer of the cost of credit and governs billing dispute
resolution, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which prohibits discrimination in
any aspect of a credit transaction based on race, color, national origin,
gender, marital status, age, income from public assistance programs or exercise
of rights under the Consumer Protection Act, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
which is aimed at ensuring the accuracy and fairness of the mechanism by which
consumer credit and other information about consumers is assembled and
evaluated. Travelers Bank & Trust is also covered by the Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act, which requires disclosure of customer demographics, including
race, gender and age. The Banks are also subject to certain regulatory
restrictions relating to transactions with affiliates. See "Insurance Services -
General -- Regulation" at the end of the description of the Life Insurance
Services segment for a discussion of the regulatory factors governing the
insurance businesses of CCC.

      Proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that would modify
certain laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry. The
potential impact of such legislation on the Company's consumer finance
businesses cannot be predicted at this time.




                     PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE SERVICES

      This segment includes the operations of TAP and its subsidiary and
affiliated property-casualty insurance companies, all of which are collectively
referred to herein as "TAP." TAP provides a wide range of commercial and
personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses,
government units, associations and individuals. On April 2, 1996, TAP, an
indirect majority-owned subsidiary of the Company, purchased from Aetna
Services, Inc. (formerly Aetna Life and Casualty Company) ("Aetna") all of the
outstanding capital stock of Travelers Casualty and Surety Company (formerly The
Aetna Casualty and Surety Company) ("Travelers Casualty") and The Standard Fire
Insurance Company ("Standard Fire"), Aetna's property and casualty insurance
subsidiaries (collectively, "Aetna P&C"), for approximately $4.2 billion in cash
(the "Acquisition"). The Acquisition was treated as a purchase and, accordingly,
the Company's consolidated financial statements include the results of Aetna
P&C's, operations only from the date of the Acquisition. The Company currently
owns approximately 83.4% of TAP's outstanding common stock. See Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the
Acquisition and related transactions. For informational purposes, the premium
and certain other operational information provided below includes Aetna P&C's
businesses prior to the Acquisition.

Commercial Lines

      TAP is the third largest writer of commercial lines insurance in the
United States based on 1996 direct written premiums published by A.M. Best
Company ("A.M. Best"). TAP's Commercial Lines offers a broad array of property
and casualty insurance and insurance-related services. Commercial Lines is
organized into four marketing and underwriting groups that are designed to focus
on a particular client base or industry segment to provide products and services
that specifically address customers' needs: National Accounts, primarily serving
large national corporations; Commercial Accounts, serving mid-size businesses;
Select Accounts, serving small businesses and individuals with commercial
exposures; and Specialty Accounts, providing a variety of specialty coverages.
TAP also has a dedicated group within Commercial Accounts that serves the
construction industry. TAP distributes its commercial products through
approximately 5,200 brokers and independent agencies located throughout the
United States. In 1997, Commercial Lines generated net written premiums of $4.8
billion.

   Selected Product and Market Information

      The following table sets forth by product line and market net written
premiums for Commercial Lines for the periods indicated. For a description of
the product lines and markets referred to in the table, see "-- Product Lines"
and "-- Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution," respectively.

      Many National Accounts customers often demand service-type products,
primarily for workers' compensation coverage and to a lesser extent in general
liability and commercial automobile coverages. These types of products include
risk management services such as claims 




settlement, loss control and engineering. Many of these products generate fee
income rather than net written premiums, and are not reflected in the following
table.

      Because the Acquisition occurred on April 2, 1996, the Company's results
of operations for periods prior to April 2, 1996 do not include the results of
Aetna P&C. Accordingly, premium and other operational information provided for
TAP's combined businesses prior to such time has been included below for
informational purposes only. As used herein, unless the context otherwise
requires, "combined" refers to the operations of both Travelers P&C and Aetna
P&C, without regard to the date of the Acquisition.

                          Combined Net Written Premiums

                                                               
                                                            Percentage of Total 
                                                            Net Written Premiums
                                   Year Ended December 31,       Year Ended     
                                   ----------------------        December 31,   
                                   1997     1996     1995           1997
                                   ----     ----     ----           ----
                                         (Dollars in millions)
Net written premiums by product
line:

   Workers' compensation           $1,176   $1,223   $1,312          24.7%    
   Commercial multi-peril           1,037    1,223    1,188          21.8     
   General liability                  931      836      815          19.6     
   Commercial automobile              866      806      888          18.2     
   Property                           383      342      457           8.1     
   Fidelity and surety                201      215      233           4.2     
   Other                              163       45      251           3.4     
                                   ------   ------   ------         ------    
      Total Commercial Lines (1)   $4,757   $4,690   $5,144         100.0%    
                                   ======   ======   ======         ======    
                                                                             
Net written premiums by market:

   National Accounts (2)           $  657   $  874   $1,192          13.8%
   Commercial Accounts              1,986    1,725    1,862          41.8
   Select Accounts                  1,432    1,412    1,466          30.1
   Specialty Accounts                 682      679      624          14.3
                                   ------   ------   ------         ------
      Total Commercial Lines (1)   $4,757   $4,690   $5,144         100.0%
                                   ======   ======   ======         ====== 

- ----------
(1)   1997 includes a $142 million increase due to a change to conform the Aetna
      P&C method of recording certain net written premiums to the method
      employed by Travelers P&C.
(2)   The decreases in National Accounts net written premiums during the periods
      shown primarily reflect the highly competitive marketplace and TAP's
      selective underwriting practices.




      The following table sets forth service fee income by market for Commercial
Lines for the periods indicated and includes information with respect to Aetna
P&C only from the date of the Acquisition.

                       Commercial Lines Service Fee Income

                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                              -----------------------------
                                              1997         1996        1995
                                              ----         ----        ----
                                                 (Dollars in millions)
Service fee income by market:
   National Accounts                          $346         $382        $424
   Commercial Accounts                          19           10           8
                                              ----         ----        ----
      Total Commercial Lines                  $365         $392        $432
                                              ====         ====        ====
                                                         
   Product Lines

      TAP writes a broad range of commercial property and casualty insurance for
risks of all sizes. The core products in TAP's Commercial Lines are as follows:

      Workers' Compensation provides coverage for employers' liability for
injuries to employees under common law as well as the obligation of an employer
under state or federal law to provide its employees with specified benefits for
work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault. In addition to
the liability exposure that may arise under common law, there are typically four
types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical
benefits, disability benefits, death benefits and vocational rehabilitation
benefits. Workers' compensation policies are often written in conjunction with
other commercial policies. TAP offers three types of workers' compensation
products: (i) guaranteed cost insurance products in which policy premiums
charged are fixed and do not vary as a result of the insured's loss experience,
(ii) loss sensitive insurance products, including retrospectively rated
policies, in which premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the
insured during the policy period, and large deductible plans, in which the
customer bears the insurance risk up to its deductible amount, and (iii) service
programs, which are generally sold to TAP's larger national accounts, where TAP
receives fees for providing loss prevention, risk management, claim
administration and benefit administration services to organizations pursuant to
service agreements. TAP also participates in state assigned risk pools servicing
workers' compensation policies as a servicing carrier and pool participant. The
Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies (which involve
employers, employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that focuses on
the injured employee's early return to work), cost-effective quality care, and
customer service in this market. Workers' compensation comprehensive claim and
managed care cost containment services are integrated through TAP's claims
management system to maximize cost savings on both service delivery and loss
payout.

      Commercial Multi-Peril provides a combination of property and liability
coverage for businesses and business property for damages such as that caused by
fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, and protects businesses from
financial loss due to business interruption. It also 




insures businesses against third-party liability from accidents occurring on
their premises or arising out of their operations, such as injuries sustained
from products sold.

      General Liability provides coverage for liability exposures including
bodily injury and property damage arising from products sold and general
business operations. General liability also includes coverage for directors' and
officers' liability arising in their official capacities, employment practices
liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension,
health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions
insurance for employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or
failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as medical malpractice,
umbrella and excess insurance.

      Commercial Automobile provides coverage for businesses against losses
incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties, property
damage to an insured's vehicle, and property damage to other vehicles and other
property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and
trucks in a business.

      Property provides coverage for loss or damage to buildings, inventory and
equipment from natural disasters, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes,
hail, explosions, severe winter weather and other events such as theft and
vandalism, fires and storms and financial loss due to business interruption
resulting from property damage. Property also includes inland marine, which
provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

      Fidelity and Surety provides fidelity insurance coverage which protects an
insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an
employee. Surety is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay a
second party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or
omissions of a third party. Surety is generally provided for construction
performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate
and other performance bonds.

      Other coverages include boiler and machinery insurance, which provides
coverage for loss or damage resulting from the malfunction of boilers and
machinery, as well as miscellaneous assumed reinsurance.

   Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

      TAP's Commercial Lines are organized into four marketing groups that are
designed to focus on a particular client base or industry segment to provide
products and services that specifically address customers' needs: National
Accounts, primarily serving large national corporations; Commercial Accounts,
primarily serving mid-size businesses; Select Accounts, serving small
businesses; and Specialty Accounts, providing a variety of specialty coverages.
The Company also has a dedicated group within Commercial Accounts that serves
the construction industry.

      TAP distributes its commercial products primarily through approximately
5,200 brokers and independent agencies located throughout the United States that
are serviced by 98 field offices. TAP seeks to establish relationships with
well-established, independent insurance agencies and 




brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute TAP's
products, TAP considers each agency's or broker's profitability, financial
stability, staff experience and strategic fit with TAP's operating and marketing
plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, the Company carefully monitors its
performance.

      National Accounts

      TAP's National Accounts provides a variety of casualty products to large
companies, as well as employee groups, associations and franchises. TAP's
National Accounts also includes TAP's alternative market business (the
"Alternative Market"), which primarily covers workers' compensation products and
services to voluntary and involuntary state pools. National Accounts customers
generally select products under retrospectively rated plans, large self-insured
retentions or some other loss-responsive arrangement. Customers are usually
national in scope and range in size from businesses with sales of approximately
$10 million per year to Fortune 2000 corporations. Products are marketed through
national brokers and regional agents with offices throughout the United States.

      National Accounts customers often demand risk service programs where the
ultimate cost is based on their own loss experience. Programs offered by TAP
include claims settlement, loss control and risk management services and are
generally offered in connection with a retrospectively rated insurance policy, a
large deductible plan or a self-insured program. Workers' compensation accounted
for approximately 69% of the products sold in 1997 to National Accounts
customers, based on net written premiums and service fee income.

      The Alternative Market business of TAP's National Accounts sells claims
and policy management services to workers' compensation and automobile assigned
risk plans, self-insurance pools throughout the United States and to niche
voluntary markets. Since 1993, most state assigned workers' compensation risk
plan contracts have been awarded through a formal state-by-state bid process.
Contracts, which are generally for three-year terms, are awarded by state
agencies based on quality of service and price. TAP has emerged as the largest
workers' compensation assigned risk plan servicing insurer in the industry with
approximately 25% share of the market in 1997. Assigned risk plan contracts
generated approximately $75 million in service fee income in 1997 for TAP.

      TAP also services self-insurance groups, sells excess workers'
compensation coverage to these groups and markets various workers' compensation
specialty programs. Self-insurance groups and these specialty programs generated
net written premiums of $43 million and service fee income of $4 million in
1997. National Accounts also participates in various involuntary assigned risk
pools, which provide insurance coverage to individuals or other entities that
otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage in the voluntary market.
Participation in these pools in most states is generally in proportion to
voluntary writings of related lines of business in that state.




      Commercial Accounts

      TAP's Commercial Accounts sells a broad range of property and casualty
insurance products through a large network of independent agents and brokers.
Commercial Accounts casualty products target businesses with 75 to 1,000
employees, while its property products target both large and medium sized
businesses. TAP offers a full line of products to its Commercial Accounts
customers, with an emphasis on guaranteed cost products.

      Commercial Accounts targets certain industries in which TAP has claims,
engineering and underwriting expertise and to which TAP has established
dedicated operations. Industry segments include from the manufacturing sector:
advanced technology, metal products, mineral products, plastic and rubber
products and wood products. Also targeted are colleges and universities, food,
retail, financial, property management and the wholesale industries. TAP
continues to develop new industry-targeted programs both on a national and local
level. Specific industry knowledge enables TAP to select, as customers, better
managed companies in an industry segment, to tailor specialized coverages for
those companies, and to link price to the individual exposure and to control
risk. Instead of relying on rating bureaus to establish rates for products, TAP
generally uses its proprietary data, which it has compiled from many years of
extensive underwriting and pricing experience. Accordingly, subject to
applicable state insurance regulations, prices are derived from those
proprietary rates and numerous variables that apply to specific risks. TAP
believes that relying on extensive proprietary data to assess individual risk
characteristics, rather than relying on data from industry rating bureaus,
provides it with a competitive advantage in pricing and underwriting commercial
risks. TAP uses components of this approach specifically in connection with loss
control and claims management processing. Through a network of field offices,
TAP's marketing and underwriting specialists, who have point of sale authority,
work closely with local brokers and agents to tailor insurance coverage to
individual customer needs.

      Construction. TAP has established dedicated operations that exclusively
target the construction industry, providing insurance and risk management
services for virtually all areas of construction, including general contractors,
heavy construction (including street and road) and special trade contractors,
except artisan or smaller trade contractors. TAP offers all product lines to
midsize and national customers in the construction market, including both
guaranteed cost and loss-responsive products, and wrap-up insurance programs,
with general liability, workers' compensation, commercial auto, commercial
property and inland marine coverages. The dedicated construction operations
provide specialized service and underwriting, with local market expertise and
national capability, that enable TAP to tailor specialized coverages, have
competitive pricing and control risk. This includes local underwriters who
understand their states' laws and claim climates, engineering and loss control
specialists, professional claim management and legal personnel with extensive
construction experience. Construction's products are distributed through
independent agents and brokers throughout the United States. Construction
operations contributed approximately 22% of the Commercial Accounts
premium-based business in 1997. Additionally, construction operations
service-based business contributed $6 million of service fees to TAP in 1997.




      Select Accounts

      Select Accounts serves individuals who have commercial exposures and firms
typically with one to 75 employees. Products offered to Select Accounts are
generally guaranteed cost policies, often a packaged product covering property
and liability exposures. Products are sold through independent agents, who are
often the same agents that sell TAP's Commercial Accounts and Personal Lines
products.

      Personnel in TAP's field offices and other points of local service, which
are located throughout the United States, work closely with agents to ensure a
strong local presence in the marketplace. TAP utilizes a marketing and
underwriting approach based on agency automation and defined underwriting
criteria. Agency automation allows agents access to TAP's price quotation and
policy issuance systems and enables agents to provide faster and more
cost-effective service to customers with supervision and underwriting control.
Agents that do not utilize the automated quotation and policy issuance systems
work with TAP's sales and marketing representatives who have point of sale
authority. Agents serving Select Accounts are given greater control and
discretion over underwriting decisions, within predefined parameters, than
brokers selling to larger accounts. Because underwriting criteria and pricing
tend to be more standardized for smaller businesses, Select Accounts uses a
standard industry classification (S.I.C.) based process to allow agents and
field marketing representatives to make underwriting and pricing decisions
within predetermined classifications. Business in other classifications is
subject to consultative review by in-house underwriters. TAP believes that its
breadth of products, highly qualified field staff and its technology offer
distinct competitive advantages.

      Specialty Accounts

      Specialty Accounts markets products to national, midsize and small
customers, as well as individuals, and distributes them through both wholesale
brokers and retail agents and brokers throughout the United States. TAP's fast
response time on underwriting decisions, industry expertise, broad range of
products and quality service are important to maintaining relationships with
Specialty Accounts insureds and producers. TAP believes that it has a
competitive advantage with respect to many of these products based on its
reputation for clear, timely decision-making, underwriting and industry
expertise and strong producer and customer relationships as well as its ability
to cross-sell with National Accounts, Commercial Accounts and Select Accounts.

      TAP has two separate marketing and underwriting groups within Specialty
Accounts:

      Gulf Specialty focuses on many non-traditional lines of business with a
particular emphasis on the financial services market. Products include
directors' and officers' liability insurance, errors and omissions coverage for
bankers, investment counselors and mutual fund advisors, and fidelity and surety
coverage for related classes. In addition, Gulf Specialty offers errors and
omissions coverage for professionals and non-professionals such as lawyers,
architects and engineers, insurance agents, podiatrists and chiropractors
medical malpractice, primary and excess property, and various coverages that
target the transportation industry. Gulf Specialty also writes umbrella coverage
for various industries, provides insurance products to the entertainment
industry and to municipalities 




and provides insurance products for other industry specific programs. In
addition, Gulf Specialty has developed a book of excess and surplus lines
business through Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company. Effective January 1, 1998,
TAP's former Travelers Specialty unit has been combined with Gulf Specialty, and
it is anticipated that during 1998 and 1999 renewal policies within the former
Travelers Specialty unit will be written as Gulf Specialty policies.

      Bond Specialty's range of products includes fidelity and surety bonds,
directors' and officers' and other professional liability insurance, employment
practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability insurance and other related
coverages. The customer base ranges from large financial services companies and
commercial entities to small businesses and individuals. Products and services
are distributed primarily through agents and brokers. Bond Specialty is
organized around three broad customer segments: Financial Services, Construction
and Commercial Risk and one specialized product niche: National Commercial
Surety.

   Pricing and Underwriting

      Pricing levels for property and casualty insurance products by TAP's
Commercial Lines are generally developed based upon the frequency and severity
of estimated losses, the expenses of producing business and administering
claims, and a reasonable allowance for profit. TAP's strategy emphasizes a
profit-oriented approach rather than a premium volume or market share-oriented
approach to underwriting. TAP's National Accounts business sells primarily risk
management services and loss sensitive products. Commercial Accounts and Select
Accounts primarily sell guaranteed cost products. The market conditions for all
Commercial Lines products are characterized by difficult pricing and increased
competition.

      A significant portion of Commercial Lines business is written with
retrospectively rated insurance policies as well as large deductible policies in
which the ultimate cost of insurance for the insured is dependent on the loss
experience of the insured. Retrospectively rated policies are primarily used in
workers' compensation coverage. Although the retrospectively rated feature of
the policy substantially reduces insurance risk to TAP, it introduces credit
risk to TAP. Receivables on unpaid losses from holders of retrospectively rated
policies totaled approximately $502 million at December 31, 1997. Collateral,
primarily letters of credit and, to a lesser extent, cash collateral, is
generally requested for contracts that provide for deferred collection of
ultimate premiums. The amount of collateral requested is predicated upon the
creditworthiness of the customer and the nature of the insured risks. Commercial
Lines continually monitors the credit exposure on individual accounts and the
adequacy of collateral.

      Under certain workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible
features, TAP is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. TAP
is subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and
is subject to credit risk until such reimbursement is made. At December 31,
1997, contractholder receivables and payables on unpaid losses were each
approximately $1.9 billion.




      TAP has developed an underwriting methodology that incorporates
underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines
for particular industries. This approach is designed to maintain high quality
underwriting and pricing discipline. This approach utilizes proprietary data
gathered and analyzed by TAP with respect to its Commercial Lines business over
many years. The underwriters and engineers use this information to assess and
evaluate risks prior to quotation. This information provides specialized
knowledge about industry segments and catastrophe management and helps analyze
risk based on account characteristics and pricing parameters designed to ensure
that TAP does not compromise its underwriting integrity. This process is linked
with strong underwriting interaction and review at TAP's local offices and
agents' locations.

      TAP is also a member of and participates in the underwriting operations of
insurance and reinsurance pools and associations, several of which make
independent underwriting decisions on behalf of their members. These pools
insure specialized risks such as exposures related to the aviation and nuclear
power industries.

      TAP continually reviews its exposure to catastrophic losses and attempts
to mitigate such exposure. See "Insurance Services - General -- Reinsurance."
TAP uses sophisticated computer modeling techniques to assess underwriting risks
and renewal of business in catastrophe-prone areas.

   Geographic Distribution

      The following table shows the distribution of Commercial Lines' direct
written premiums for the states that accounted for the majority of premium
volume for the year ended December 31, 1997:

        State                                 % of Total
        -----                                 ----------
        New York                               12.6%
        California                              8.0
        Texas                                   6.4
        Massachusetts                           6.4
        Pennsylvania                            4.5
        Florida                                 4.3
        New Jersey                              4.0
        Connecticut                             3.8
        Illinois                                3.7
        North Carolina                          3.3
        All Others (1)                         43.0
                                             --------
        Total                                 100.0%
                                             ========

- ----------
(1) No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written
premiums written in 1997 by TAP.




Personal Lines

      TAP is the second largest writer of personal lines insurance through
independent agents and the eighth largest writer of personal lines insurance
overall in the United States based on 1996 direct written premiums published by
A.M. Best. In 1997, Personal Lines generated net written premiums of
approximately $3.1 billion. Personal Lines primarily offers personal automobile
and homeowners insurance.

      Personal Lines distributes products primarily through approximately 5,000
independent agencies located throughout the United States. TAP is also marketing
its Personal Lines products through alternative distribution channels, including
sponsoring organizations such as employee and affinity groups, joint marketing
arrangements with other insurers and through the PFS sales force. The
property-casualty licensed PFS agents market Personal Lines products under the
name TRAVELERS SECURE(R) in 39 states. At the end of 1997, approximately 8,700
members of the PFS sales force were licensed to sell TRAVELERS SECURE(R)
products and approximately 10,000 new automobile and homeowners policies are now
being sold through this program each month. Approximately one-third of Personal
Lines new business originated from alternative distribution channels in 1997.

   Selected Product Information

      The following table sets forth by product line net written premiums for
Personal Lines for the periods indicated. For a description of the product lines
referred to in the table below, see "-- Product Lines."

      Because the Acquisition occurred on April 2, 1996, the Company's results
of operations for periods prior to April 2, 1996 do not include the results of
Aetna P&C. Accordingly, premium and other operational information provided for
TAP's combined businesses prior to such time is for informational purposes only.

                          Combined Net Written Premiums



                                                                
- ----------
(1) In 1997, $371 million of Personal Lines net written premiums were generated
by alternative distribution channels.




   Product Lines

      TAP writes virtually all types of property and casualty insurance covering
personal risks. Personal Lines had approximately 4.4 million policies in force
at December 31, 1997. The primary coverages in Personal Lines are personal
automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals.

      Personal Automobile provides coverage for liability to others for both
bodily injury and property damage and for physical damage to an insured's own
vehicle from collision and various other perils. In addition, many states
require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently
referred to as no-fault coverage. In 1997, TAP introduced a nonstandard
automobile product in Texas and Alabama, distributed through independent agents.
In February 1998, TAP expanded its nonstandard auto product into New York, and
later this year it plans to further expand such product into its larger markets,
including Pennsylvania, Florida and Connecticut.

      Homeowners and Other provides protection against losses to dwellings and
contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability
arising from ownership or occupancy. TAP writes homeowners insurance for
dwellings, condominiums, mobile homes and rental property contents. Other
products include coverage for boats, personal articles such as jewelry, and
umbrella liability protection.

   Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

      TAP's Personal Lines products are distributed primarily through
approximately 5,000 independent agencies located throughout the United States,
supported by a network of 15 field marketing offices and five customer service
centers. Personal Lines also markets through affinity groups, the PFS sales
force and under joint marketing arrangements with other insurers. While TAP's
principal markets for Personal Lines insurance are in states along the East
Coast, in the South, and Texas, Personal Lines is expanding its geographical
presence across the United States. In the states of Florida, New Jersey and
Massachusetts, TAP operates stand-alone domestic companies to enhance its
competitive capability in these highly regulated markets. In addition, in
October 1997, TAP commenced operations in its California domestic companies,
which sell personal automobile policies.

      Insurance companies generally market personal automobile and homeowners
insurance through one of two distribution systems: independent agents or direct
writing. The independent agents that distribute TAP's Personal Lines products
usually represent several unrelated property and casualty companies. In
contrast, direct writing companies operate either by mail or through exclusive
agents or sales representatives. Due in part to the expense advantage that
direct writers may have relative to companies using independent agents, the
direct writing companies have gradually expanded their market share in recent
years.

      TAP's Personal Lines continues to distribute its products through the
independent agency distribution system, recognizing the service and underwriting
advantages the agent can deliver. In addition to its agency distribution system,
TAP has broadened its distribution channels for Personal 




Lines products to include sponsoring organizations such as employee and affinity
groups, joint marketing arrangements with other insurers and sales through
members of the PFS sales force, who primarily sell life insurance products
issued by affiliates of TAP, as well as mutual funds and other products of the
Company. This program is available in 39 states. In general, members of the PFS
sales force contact potential customers directly, and then transmit information
about the customer to one of four regional telemarketing centers. An authorized
telemarketing sales representative contacts the customer to underwrite, sell and
ultimately process new business.

      In 1995, Aetna P&C entered into a marketing agreement with GEICO to write
the majority of GEICO's homeowners business, and to receive referrals from GEICO
for new homeowners business. This agreement added historically profitable
business and helped geographically diversify the homeowners line of business.
New business referrals began in July 1995 and, on January 1, 1996, Aetna P&C
began writing renewal policies. This marketing agreement provided for limits on
Personal Lines' obligation to write new and renewal business in certain
catastrophe-prone areas.

      TAP believes that its focus on service and development of long-term
relationships with individual agents gives it a competitive advantage in the
Personal Lines market. TAP believes that its expense management practices,
including prompt and efficient claims handling and high level of automation,
allow it to offer a competitively priced product. In addition, TAP is leveraging
its service, claims handling and automation experience in the expansion of the
distribution of Personal Lines products through its alternative channels.

   Pricing and Underwriting

      Pricing for personal automobile insurance is driven by changes in the
relative frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of automobile repairs,
medical care and litigation of liability claims. As a result, the profitability
of the business is largely dependent on promptly identifying and rectifying
disparities between premium levels and expected claim costs, and obtaining
approval of the state regulatory authorities for indicated rate increases.
Premiums charged for physical damage coverage reflect insured car values and,
accordingly, premium levels are somewhat related to the volume of new car sales.

      Pricing in the homeowners business is also driven by changes in the
frequency of claims and by inflation in building supplies, labor costs and
household possessions. Most homeowners policies offer (but do not require)
automatic increases in coverage to reflect growth in replacement costs and
property values. In addition to the normal risks associated with any multiple
peril coverage, the profitability and pricing of homeowners insurance is
affected by the incidence of natural disasters, particularly hurricanes, winter
storms, earthquakes and tornadoes. In order to reduce its exposure to
catastrophe losses, TAP has limited the writing of new homeowners business and
selectively non-renewed existing homeowners business in certain markets,
tightened underwriting standards and implemented price increases in certain
catastrophe-prone areas, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory
authorities. In California, TAP introduced in 1996 an endorsement that reduces
its exposure to catastrophic earthquake claims by increasing the deductible and
limiting other policy coverages in the event of an earthquake loss. TAP uses
computer 




modeling techniques to assess its level of exposure to loss in catastrophe-prone
areas. Changes to methods of marketing and underwriting in coastal areas of
Florida and New York, and in California are subject to state-imposed
restrictions, the general effect of which is to make it more difficult for an
insurer to reduce exposures.

      Insurers writing property-casualty policies are generally unable to
increase rates until some time after the costs associated with coverage have
increased, primarily as a result of state insurance rate regulation laws. The
pace at which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or to
increased costs depends, in part, on whether the applicable rate regulation law
requires prior approval of a rate increase or notification to the regulator
either before or after a rate increase is imposed. In states having prior
approval laws, a rate must be approved by the regulator before it may be used by
the insurer. In states having "file-and-use" laws, the insurer must file the
rate with the regulator, but does not need to wait for approval before using it.
A "use-and-file" law requires an insurer to file rates within a certain period
of time after the insurer begins using the new rate. Approximately one-half of
the states, including New York and New Jersey, require prior approval of most
rate increases.

      Underwriting of Personal Lines products is conducted primarily by
independent agents. Agents underwrite Personal Lines policies under strict
underwriting guidelines established and monitored by TAP. Each agent is assigned
to a specific employee of TAP or team of employees responsible for working with
the agent on business plan development, marketing, and overall growth and
profitability. TAP uses agency level management information to analyze and
understand results and to identify problems and opportunities.

   Geographic Distribution

      The following table shows the distribution of Personal Lines' direct
written premiums for the states that accounted for the majority of premium
volume for the year ended December 31, 1997:

            State                              % of Total
            -----                              ----------
            New York                             22.0%
            New Jersey                            9.4
            Texas                                 9.2
            Pennsylvania                          8.7
            Florida                               7.2
            Connecticut                           5.9
            Massachusetts                         5.7
            Virginia                              3.8
            Georgia                               3.2
            All others (1)                       24.9
                                               ---------
            Total                               100.0%
                                               =========

- ----------
(1) No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written
premiums written in 1997 by TAP.




Claim Administration

      TAP employs approximately 8,200 claim adjusters, appraisers,
investigators, staff attorneys, system specialists and training, management and
support personnel in the claim department. These employees manage over 90% of
TAP's claims. Approved external vendors, such as claim adjusters, appraisers,
investigators and attorneys, are used only when the geographic location or
unique issues raised by a claim warrant such use. To be approved, these vendors
must have a proven record and have demonstrated cost-consciousness and relevant
technical skills.

      TAP is dedicated to providing outstanding service standards to its
customers while seeking to reach optimal levels of losses and loss adjustment
expenses. During 1997, TAP reorganized the claim department to more effectively
meet these goals. The new structure features seven operating regions, and grants
to the regions wider authority to address the needs of local customers,
underwriters, agents and brokers across Commercial Lines and Personal Lines. In
addition, the home office and legal personnel created teams around technical
specialties to better support the regional operations. This streamlined
structure of the claim department permits TAP to maintain the economies of scale
of a larger, established company while enjoying the flexibility of a smaller
company that can more quickly respond to the needs of its customers,
underwriters, agents and brokers. The home office continues to monitor adherence
to claims policies and procedures, the adequacy of case reserves, loss and
expense controls and productivity and service standards.

      In 1997, TAP also introduced TravComp, a workers' compensation claim and
medical management program that assists adjusters in promptly investigating,
validating or rejecting workers' compensation claims. New medical management
workstations also permit nurse professionals to access additional information
that supports TAP's emphasis on early return to work strategies for these
claims. These new technologies, together with better matching of professional
skills and authority to specific claim issues, have resulted in workers'
compensation cases closing faster and with lower losses and loss adjustment
expenses. A new, loss and analytical reporting tool made possible by the
implementation of the new workers' compensation process is now available to
employers.

      Environmental, asbestos and cumulative injury claims are separately
managed by TAP's Special Liability Group. This group is comprised of dedicated
legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. See "-- Environmental,
Asbestos and Cumulative Injury Claims."

Reserves

      Property and casualty claim reserves are established to account for the
estimated ultimate costs of claims and claim adjustment expenses for claims that
have been reported but not yet settled and claims that have been incurred but
not reported. TAP establishes reserves by line of business, coverage and year.




      The process of estimating claim reserves is imprecise due to a number of
variables. These variables are affected by both internal and external events
such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and
legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable,
particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant
reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is
actually reported to the insurer. TAP continually refines reserve estimates in a
regular ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported
and settled. TAP reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations
in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, TAP
takes into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and
subrogation.

      TAP derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported
claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claims
development by accident year for each line of business and market segment.
Similarly, TAP derives estimates of unpaid claim adjustment expenses principally
from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship
of claim adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and market
segment. For a description of TAP's reserving methods for environmental and
asbestos claims, see "-- Environmental, Asbestos and Cumulative Injury Claims."

      Discounting. The liability for losses for certain long-term disability
payments under workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess
insurance has been discounted using a maximum interest rate of 5%. At December
31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 the combined amounts of discount for TAP were $912
million, $1.012 billion and $1.206 billion, respectively.

      For a reconciliation of beginning and ending property and casualty
insurance claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of the Company for each
of the last three years, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

      The following table sets forth the year-end reserves from 1987 through
1997 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented on a historical
basis for TAP. Accordingly, the original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and
reestimated reserves in the table for the years 1987-1995 have not been restated
to include Aetna P&C. Beginning in 1996, the table includes the reserve activity
of Aetna P&C. The data in the table are presented in accordance with reporting
requirements of the SEC. Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those
unfamiliar with such information or familiar with other data commonly reported
by the insurance industry. The following data is not accident year data, but
rather a display of 1987-1997 year-end reserves and the subsequent changes in
those reserves.

      For instance, the "cumulative deficiency or redundancy" shown in the
following table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original
estimates of reserves as of that year-end have changed in subsequent years.
Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at
that year-end and such amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the
original reserves at the end of 1987 included $4 million for a loss that is
finally settled in 1997 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of
the actual settlement of $5 million over the original 




estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each
of the years 1987-1996 shown in the following table.

      Certain factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative
deficiency or redundancy shown in the following table. For example, a
substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years
1987-1997 arises from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1970s
involving liability exposures such as environmental, asbestos and cumulative
injury claims. In the post-1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent
underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or
terminated the writing of such risks. See "--Environmental, Asbestos and
Cumulative Injury Claims." General conditions and trends that have affected the
development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the
future.

      Other factors that affect the data in the following table include the
discounting of workers' compensation reserves and the use of retrospectively
rated insurance policies. To the extent permitted under applicable accounting
practices, workers' compensation reserves are discounted to reflect the time
value of money, due to the relatively long time period over which these claims
are to be paid. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on
these workers' compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest
rates. Also, a significant portion of National Accounts business is underwritten
with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss
experience is primarily borne by the insured. Increases in loss experience
result in an increase in reserves, and an offsetting increase in amounts
recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a
decrease in reserves, and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from
insureds. These amounts recoverable mitigate the impact of the cumulative
deficiencies or redundancies but are not reflected in the following table.
Retrospective rating is particularly significant for National Accounts business
for workers' compensation, and to a lesser extent in general liability and
commercial automobile coverages. This mechanism affords TAP significant
financial protection against adverse development on a large block of net
reserves.

      Because of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop meaningful
extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves
from the data in the following table.

      The differences between the reserves for claims and claim adjustment
expenses shown in the following table, which is prepared in accordance with
GAAP, and those reported in the annual statements of TAP filed with state
insurance departments, which are prepared in accordance with statutory
accounting practices, were: $31 million, $14 million and $(7) million for the
years 1997, 1996 and 1995 respectively.






- ----------
(a)   Reflects reserves of Travelers P&C, excluding Aetna P&C reserves which
      were acquired on April 2, 1996. Accordingly, the reserve development (net
      reserves for loss and Loss Adjustment Expense recorded at the end of the
      year, as originally estimated, less net reserves reestimated as of
      subsequent years) relates only to losses recorded by Travelers P&C and
      does not include reserve development recorded by Aetna P&C.
(b)   Includes Aetna P&C gross reserves of $16,775 million and net reserves of
      $11,752 million acquired on April 2, 1996 and subsequent development
      recorded by Aetna P&C.

Statutory Combined Ratio and Other Information

      The following table sets forth the statutory loss and LAE ratios,
underwriting expense ratios and combined ratios for the periods indicated for
the Company.

      The statutory combined ratio is an industry measurement of the results of
property and casualty insurance underwriting. This ratio is the sum of the ratio
of incurred losses and loss




adjustment expenses to net premiums earned (the "loss and LAE ratio"), the ratio
of underwriting expenses incurred to net premiums written (the "underwriting
expense ratio") and, where applicable, the ratio of dividends to policyholders
to net premiums earned. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an
underwriting profit; a combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an
underwriting loss. However, investment income, federal income taxes and other
non-underwriting income or expenses are not reflected in the statutory combined
ratio. The profitability of property and casualty insurance companies depends on
income from underwriting, investment and service operations. Lines of business
where claims are paid out over a longer period of time, such as workers'
compensation ("long-tail"), also provide investment income over a longer period
of time and therefore can be profitable at higher combined ratios than lines
where claims are paid out over a shorter period ("short-tail"). Insurers with a
high proportion of long-tail policies will generally have higher combined ratios
than insurers with more short-tail business.

      The ratios shown in the table below are computed based upon statutory
accounting practices, not generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). For
information on GAAP combined ratios, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

                            Statutory Combined Ratios

                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                   -------------------------
                                   1997     1996        1995
                                   ----     ----        ----
Commercial Lines:
   Loss and LAE ratio              78.4%    96.2%      80.6%
   Underwriting expense ratio      30.6     32.7       24.4

   Combined ratio before
      policyholder dividends      109.0    128.9(1)   105.0
   Combined ratio                 111.0    129.6      106.3
Personal Lines:
   Loss and LAE ratio              63.5     68.7       74.5
   Underwriting expense ratio      28.7     28.9       29.9
   Combined ratio                  92.2     97.6(2)   104.4
Total:
   Loss and LAE ratio              72.4     85.5       78.2
   Underwriting expense ratio      29.9     31.3       26.4
   Combined ratio before
      policyholder dividends      102.3    116.8      104.6
   Combined ratio                 103.5    117.2      105.4

- ----------
(1)   Includes the effect of charges associated with the Acquisition and also
      includes statutory charges made to conform accounting policies and Company
      strategies in connection with the Acquisition (but not for GAAP reporting
      purposes due to purchase accounting). Excluding such charges, the combined
      ratio before policyholder dividends was 110.0%.

(2)   Includes the effect of TAP's review of reserves associated with the
      Acquisition. The combined ratio excluding this item was 100.1%.




      The following table sets forth information regarding the premium to
surplus ratios of TAP. For informational purposes only, the table includes Aetna
P&C for all periods presented.

             Schedule of Premium to Surplus Ratios (Statutory Basis)

                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                           -----------------------
                                           1997      1996     1995
                                           ------   ------   ------
                                            (Dollars in millions)

Net written premiums                       $7,832   $7,343   $7,701
Capital and surplus                         6,188    5,423    5,231
Ratio of net written premiums to capital
   and surplus                              1.27x    1.35x    1.47x

Environmental, Asbestos and Cumulative Injury Claims

      Environmental, asbestos and cumulative injury claims are segregated from
other claims and are handled separately by TAP's Special Liability Group, a
special unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering
professionals.

   Environmental Claims

      As a result of various state and federal regulatory efforts aimed at
environmental remediation, the insurance industry has been, and continues to be,
involved in extensive litigation involving policy coverage and liability issues.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
("CERCLA") was first enacted in 1980, and significantly expanded in 1984. CERCLA
enables private parties and the federal and state governments to take action
with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances and to
recover their response costs from certain liable parties or such parties may be
ordered to undertake remedial action directly. Liability under CERCLA may be
joint and several with other responsible persons. In addition to the regulatory
pressures, TAP believes that certain court decisions have expanded insurance
coverage beyond the original intent of the insurers and insureds, frequently
involving policies that were issued prior to the mid-1970s. The results of court
decisions affecting the industry's coverage positions continue to be
inconsistent. Accordingly, the ultimate responsibility and liability for
environmental remediation costs remain uncertain.

      TAP continues to receive claims alleging liability exposures arising out
of insureds' alleged disposition of toxic substances. These claims when
submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from
the insured and TAP does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in
those few claims which indicated such a monetary amount.

      TAP's reserves for environmental claims are not established on a
claim-by-claim basis. An aggregate bulk reserve is carried for all of TAP's
environmental claims that are in the dispute process, until the dispute is
resolved. This bulk reserve is established and adjusted based upon the 




aggregate volume of in-process environmental claims and TAP's experience in
resolving such claims. Environmental loss and loss expense reserves of TAP at
December 31, 1997 were $1.119 billion, net of reinsurance of $74 million.
Approximately 17% of such loss and loss expense reserves (i.e., approximately
$192 million) were case reserves for resolved claims. The balance, approximately
83% of the net aggregate reserve (i.e., approximately $927 million), is carried
in a bulk reserve and includes incurred but not reported environmental claims
for which TAP has not received any specific claims.

      TAP's reserving methodology is preferable to one based on "identified
claims" since the resolution of environmental exposures by TAP generally occurs
on an insured-by-insured basis as opposed to a claim-by-claim basis. The nature
of the resolution often is through coverage litigation, which often pertains to
more than one claim, as well as through a settlement with an insured. Generally,
the settlement between TAP and the insured extinguishes any obligation the
Company may have under any policy issued to the insured for past, present and
future environmental liabilities. This form of settlement is commonly referred
to as a "buy-back" of policies for future environmental liability. Additional
provisions of these agreements include the appropriate indemnities and hold
harmless provisions to protect TAP. TAP's general purpose in executing such
agreements is to reduce its potential environmental exposure and eliminate both
the risks presented by coverage litigation with the insured and the cost of such
litigation.

      The reserving methodology includes an analysis by TAP of the exposure
presented by each insured and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any, for
each insured. This analysis is completed by TAP on a quarterly basis. In the
course of its analysis, an assessment of the probable liability, available
coverage, judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures is
considered by TAP. In addition, due consideration is given to the many variables
presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the insured at each
site; the allegations of environmental damage at each site; the number of sites;
the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of
environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of
government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of
each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between TAP and the
insured; the identification of other insurers; the potential coverage available,
if any, including number of years of coverage, if any; and the applicable law in
each jurisdiction. Analysis of these and other factors, including the potential
for future claims, results in the establishment of the bulk reserve.

      The duration of TAP's investigation and review of such claims and the
extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the
value of the claim to the Company, varies significantly and is dependent upon a
number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the
cooperation of the insured in providing claim information, the pace of
underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation
between the insured and the Company and the willingness of the insured and TAP
to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute between them
pertaining to such claims. Since the foregoing factors vary from claim to claim
and insured by insured, TAP cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration
of an environmental claim. However, based upon TAP's experience in resolving
such claims, the duration may vary from months to several years.




      The property and casualty insurance industry does not have a standard
method of calculating claim activity for environmental losses. Generally for
environmental (Superfund remediation type) claims, TAP establishes a claim file
for each insured on a per site, per claimant basis. If there is more than one
claimant such as a federal and a state agency, this method will result in two
claims being set up for a policyholder at that one site. TAP adheres to this
method of calculating claim activity on all environmental-related claims,
whether such claims are tendered on primary, excess or umbrella policies. Since
the implementation of the claim system conversion in 1997, TAP's method of
establishing claims in the foregoing manner now applies to claims tendered under
the Travelers P&C and Aetna P&C policies.

      In addition, TAP establishes claim files for bodily injury or property
damage claims brought by individual claimants who allege injury or damage as a
result of the discharge of wastes or pollutants. As it pertains to such claims
tendered on policies issued by Travelers P&C, TAP establishes a claim file on a
per claim, per insured, per site basis. For example, if one hundred claimants
file a lawsuit against five policyholders alleging bodily injury and property
damage as a result of the discharge of wastes or pollutants, one thousand claims
(five hundred for the bodily injury claims and five hundred for the property
damage claims) would be established.

      As it pertains to the bodily injury and property damage claims tendered on
Aetna P&C policies, TAP's claim system conversion has not been completed to
permit the establishment of such claims in a manner consistent with
establishment of Travelers P&C bodily injury and property damage claims. As it
pertains to such claims tendered on policies issued by Aetna P&C, TAP currently
establishes a claim file on a per insured basis, per site basis. For example, if
one hundred claimants file a lawsuit against five policyholders alleging bodily
injury and property damage as a result of the discharge of wastes or pollutants,
five claims would be established for all the bodily injury claims and five
claims would be established for all of the property damage claims.

      As of December 31, 1997, calculated as described above, TAP had
approximately 40,300 pending environmental-related claims tendered by 1,400
active policyholders. Of the total pending environmental-related claims, 29,800
claims relate to Travelers P&C policies tendered by 569 policyholders and 10,500
claims relate to Aetna P&C policies tendered by 961 policyholders. Approximately
130 of these Aetna P&C policyholders are also included in the 569 Travelers P&C
policyholders' count. The pending environmental-related claims represent federal
or state EPA-type claims as well as plaintiffs' claims alleging bodily injury
and property damage due to the discharge of waste or pollutants.

      To date, TAP generally has been successful in resolving its coverage
litigation and continues to reduce its potential exposure through favorable
settlements with certain insureds. These settlement agreements with certain
insureds are based on the variables presented in each piece of coverage
litigation. Generally the settlement dollars paid in disputed coverage claims
are a percentage of the total coverage sought by such insureds. Based upon TAP's
reserving methodology and the experience of its historical resolution of
environmental exposures, it believes that the environmental reserve position is
appropriate. As of December 31, 1997, TAP, for approximately 




$1.16 billion, has resolved the environmental liabilities presented by 3,931 of
the 5,331 policyholders who have tendered environmental claims to TAP. This
resolution comprises 74% of the policyholders who have tendered such claims. TAP
has reserves of approximately $800 million included in its bulk reserve relating
to the remaining 1,400 policyholders (26% of the total) with unresolved
environmental claims, as well as for any other policyholder which may tender an
environmental claim in the future.

   Asbestos Claims

      In the area of asbestos claims, TAP believes that the property and
casualty insurance industry has suffered from judicial interpretations that have
attempted to maximize insurance availability from both a coverage and liability
standpoint far beyond the intent of the contracting parties. These policies
generally were issued prior to the 1980s. TAP continues to receive asbestos
claims alleging insureds' liability from claimants' asbestos-related injuries.
These claims, when submitted, rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought
by the claimant from the insured and TAP does not keep track of the monetary
amount being sought in those few claims which indicated such a monetary amount.
Originally the cases involved mainly plant workers and traditional asbestos
manufacturers and distributors. However, in the mid-1980s, a new group of
plaintiffs, whose exposure to asbestos was less direct and whose injuries were
often speculative, began to file lawsuits in increasing numbers against the
traditional defendants as well as peripheral defendants who had produced
products that may have contained small amounts of some form of encapsulated
asbestos. These claims continue to arise and on an individual basis generally
involve smaller companies with smaller limits of potential coverage. Also, there
has emerged a group of non-product claims by plaintiffs, mostly independent
labor union workers, mainly against companies, alleging exposure to asbestos
while working at these companies' premises. TAP continues to receive this type
of asbestos claim.

      In summary, various classes of asbestos defendants, such as major product
manufacturers, peripheral and regional product defendants as well as premises
owners, are tendering asbestos-related claims to the industry. Because each
insured presents different liability and coverage issues, TAP evaluates those
issues on an insured-by-insured basis.

      TAP's evaluations have not resulted in any meaningful data from which an
average asbestos defense or indemnity payment may be determined. The varying
defense and indemnity payments made by TAP on behalf of its insureds have also
precluded TAP from deriving any meaningful data by which it can predict whether
its defense and indemnity payments for asbestos claims (on average or in the
aggregate) will remain the same or change in the future. Based upon TAP's
experience with asbestos claims, the duration period of an asbestos claim from
the date of submission to resolution is approximately two years.

      At December 31, 1997, asbestos claims reserves of TAP were $1.114 billion,
net of reinsurance of $249 million. Approximately 24% of the net aggregate
reserve (i.e., approximately $266 million) is for pending asbestos claims. The
balance, approximately 76% (i.e., approximately




$848 million), of the net asbestos reserve represents incurred but not reported
losses for which TAP has not received any specific claims.

   Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Environmental and Asbestos Reserves

      It is difficult to estimate the reserves for environmental and
asbestos-related claims due to the vagaries of court coverage decisions,
plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability, the risks inherent in major
litigation and other uncertainties. Conventional actuarial techniques are not
used to estimate such reserves.

      For environmental claims, TAP estimates its financial exposure and
establishes reserves based upon an analysis of its historical claim experience
and the facts of the individual underlying claims. The unique facts presented in
each claim are evaluated individually and collectively. Due consideration is
given to the many variables presented in each claim, as discussed above.

      The following factors are evaluated in projecting the ultimate reserve for
asbestos-related claims: available insurance coverage; limits and deductibles;
an analysis of each policyholder's potential liability; jurisdictional
involvement; past and projected future claim activity; past settlement values of
similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other
insurance, and applicable coverage defenses, if any. Once the gross ultimate
exposure for indemnity and allocated claim adjustment expense is determined for
a policyholder by policy year, a ceded projection is calculated based on any
applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance and past ceded experience. In
addition, a similar review is conducted for asbestos property damage claims.
However, due to the relatively minor claim volume, these reserves have remained
at a constant level.

      As a result of these processes and procedures, the reserves carried for
environmental and asbestos claims at December 31, 1997 are the Company's best
estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses based upon known facts
and current law. However, the conditions surrounding the final resolution of
these claims continues to change. Currently, it is not possible to predict
changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future
development of asbestos and environmental claims. Such development will be
affected by future court decisions and interpretations and changes in Superfund
and other legislation. Because of these future unknowns, additional liabilities
may arise for amounts in excess of the current reserves. These additional
amounts, or a range of these additional amounts, cannot now be reasonably
estimated, and could result in a liability exceeding reserves by an amount that
would be material to the Company's operating results in a future period.
However, the Company believes that it is not likely that these claims will have
a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity.

   Cumulative Injury Other Than Asbestos

      Cumulative injury other than asbestos ("CIOTA") claims are generally
submitted to TAP under general liability policies and often involve an
allegation by a claimant against an insured that the claimant has suffered
injuries as a result of long-term or continuous exposure to potentially harmful
products or substances. Such potentially harmful products or substances include,
but are not 




limited to, lead paint, pesticides, pharmaceutical products, silicone-based
personal products, solvents and other deleterious substances.

      Due to claimants' allegations of long-term bodily injury in CIOTA claims,
numerous complex issues regarding such claims are presented. The claimants'
theories of liability must be evaluated, evidence pertaining to a causal link
between injury and exposure to a substance must be reviewed, the potential role
of other causes of injury must be analyzed, the liability of other defendants
must be explored, an assessment of a claimant's damages must be made and the law
of the jurisdiction must be applied. In addition, TAP must review the number of
policies issued by TAP to the insured and whether such policies are triggered by
the allegations, the terms and limits of liability of such policies, the
obligations of other insurers to respond to the claim, and the applicable law in
each jurisdiction.

      To the extent disputes exist between TAP and a policyholder regarding the
coverage available for CIOTA claims, TAP resolves the disputes, where feasible,
through settlements with the policyholder or through coverage litigation.
Generally, the terms of a settlement agreement set forth the nature of TAP's
participation in resolving CIOTA claims, the scope of coverage to be provided by
TAP and contain the appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to
protect TAP. These settlements generally eliminate uncertainties for TAP
regarding the risks extinguished, including the risk that losses would be
greater than anticipated due to evolving theories of tort liability or
unfavorable coverage determinations. TAP's approach also has the effect of
determining losses at a date earlier than would have occurred in the absence of
such settlement agreements. On the other hand, in cases where future
developments are favorable to insurers, this approach could have the effect of
resolving claims for amounts in excess of those that would ultimately have been
paid had the claims not been settled in this manner. No inference should be
drawn that because of TAP's method of dealing with CIOTA claims, its reserves
for such claims are more conservatively stated than those of other insurers.

      Prior to the Acquisition, Aetna P&C did not distinguish CIOTA from other
general liability claims or treat CIOTA claims as a special class of claims. In
addition, there were substantial differences in claim approach and resolution
between TAP and Aetna P&C regarding CIOTA claims. During the second quarter of
1996, TAP completed its review of Aetna P&C's exposure to CIOTA claims in order
to determine an appropriate level of reserves using TAP's approach as described
above. Based on the results of that review, TAP's general liability insurance
reserves were increased $360 million, net of reinsurance ($234 million after
tax).

      At December 31, 1997, CIOTA claims reserves of TAP were $1.088 billion,
net of reinsurance of $432 million. Approximately 18% of the net aggregate
reserve (i.e., approximately $195 million) is for pending CIOTA claims. The
balance, approximately 82% (i.e., approximately $893 million), of the net CIOTA
reserve represents incurred but not reported losses for which TAP has not
received any specific claims.




Insurance Pools

      Most of TAP's insurance subsidiaries are members of one of two separate
intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangements: the
Travelers Property Casualty pool and the Gulf pool. Each of these insurance
pools permits the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire
pool rather than on its own capital and surplus. Under the arrangements of each
insurance pool, the members share substantially all insurance business that is
written and prorate the combined premiums, losses and expenses. Travelers
Casualty and Surety Company of America ("Travelers C&S of America") does not
participate in either pool and is dedicated to the Bond Specialty business.

Competition and Regulation

      For a description of competition and regulation relating to the Company's
property and casualty insurance business, see "Insurance Services - General" at
the end of the description of the Life Insurance Services segment.

Investments

      For information on the investment portfolios of the Company's property and
casualty insurance business, see "Insurance Services - General" at the end of
the description of the Life Insurance Services segment.

                             LIFE INSURANCE SERVICES

      The Company's Life Insurance Services segment includes the operations of
The Travelers Insurance Company ("TIC"), which was incorporated in 1863, The
Travelers Life and Annuity Company ("TLAC" and together with TIC, "Travelers
Life and Annuity") and the Primerica Financial Services group of companies
("PFS"), including Primerica Life Insurance Company ("Primerica Life"). With
$50.0 billion of assets and $422 billion of life insurance in force at December
31, 1997, the Company believes that TIC, TLAC and Primerica Life together
constitute one of the largest stock life insurance groups in the United States
as measured by these criteria. For information concerning the Company's
credit-related insurance businesses, see "Consumer Finance Services."

Primerica Financial Services

   Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

      The business operations of PFS involve the sale of life insurance, mutual
funds and other financial products. PFS consists of an affiliated group of
companies engaged in (i) the underwriting and administration of individual term
life insurance throughout the United States and in Canada, (ii) securities
brokerage, consisting primarily of mutual fund sales, and (iii) the sale of
other products approved by the Company, including personal lines
property-casualty insurance (TRAVELERS 




SECURE(R)) of TAP and mortgage and personal loans ($.M.A.R.T. loan(R) and
$.A.F.E.(R) loan) underwritten by CCC. The PFS sales force is composed of
approximately 80,000 independent agents. A great majority of the domestic
licensed sales force works on a part-time basis.

      The PFS sales force is one of the principal distribution arms for the
Company's cross-marketing efforts. Sales of Salomon Smith Barney funds,
predominantly The Concert Series(R), by the PFS sales force were $690.2 million
and $558.1 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively. The PFS sales force is also
the exclusive distributor of Concert Investment Series(sm), an additional group
of mutual funds advised by Salomon Smith Barney. Within PrimElite(TM), a 
variable annuity product offered by the PFS sales force, $214.9 million and $
44.9 million were invested in Salomon Smith Barney funds in 1997 and 1996, 
respectively. Beginning in 1998, the PrimElite(TM) product will be underwritten 
by Travelers Life and Annuity. In addition, approximately 8,700 members of the
PFS sales force are now licensed to sell automobile and homeowners insurance
products under the TRAVELERS SECURE(R) name. This program, which began in 1994
and continues to experience growth in applications and policies, is now
available in 39 states. Finally, the $.M.A.R.T. loan(R) and $.A.F.E.(R) loan
programs, under which members of the PFS sales force solicit applications for
mortgage and personal loans underwritten by CCC, had net receivables outstanding
of over $2.2 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

      Primerica Life and its subsidiaries, Primerica Life Insurance Company of
Canada and National Benefit Life Insurance Company ("NBL"), primarily offer
individual term life insurance. NBL provides statutory disability benefits law
insurance, primarily in New York, as well as direct response student term life
insurance nationwide. Primerica Life and its subsidiaries together are licensed
to sell and market term life insurance in all 50 states, the District of
Columbia, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern
Mariana Islands.

      For information concerning PFS Investments Inc. ("PFS Investments"), see
"-- Mutual Funds and Asset Management" below.

      Premium revenues, net of reinsurance, for PFS for the years ended December
31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 were $1.035 billion, $1.030 billion and $1.012 billion,
respectively. See "Insurance Services - General -- Reinsurance" for a discussion
of reinsurance.

      In 1996, PFS began utilizing the Financial Needs Analysis ("FNA"), a
diagnostic tool that enhances its ability to address client needs. During 1997,
more than 483,000 FNAs were submitted.




   Life Insurance in Force

      The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending life
insurance in force for Primerica Life and subsidiaries, and related statistical
data for 1995-1997.

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                             1997           1996           1995
                                             ----           ----           ----
                                       (In millions of dollars, except as noted)

In force beginning of year            $   359,878    $   348,169    $   334,972
Additions                                  52,598         52,039         53,045
Terminations(1)                           (42,605)       (40,330)       (39,848)
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
In force end of year                  $   369,871    $   359,878    $   348,169
                                      ===========    ===========    ===========
The amounts in force at end of
 year are before reinsurance ceded
 in the following amounts             $   152,899    $   134,330    $   117,647
                                      ===========    ===========    ===========
At end of year:
 Number of policies in force
   PFS                                  2,146,200      2,141,800      2,115,600
   NBL other individual lines             427,908        418,437        398,988
 Average size of policy
   in force (in dollars)
    PFS                               $   169,093    $   164,694    $   161,125
    NBL other individual lines             16,264         17,055         18,154

- ----------
(1) Includes terminations due to death, surrenders and lapses.

      AIDS-related claims, net of reinsurance, as a percentage of total net life
claims paid by Primerica Life in 1997, 1996 and 1995, were 3.2%, 5.9% and 7.1%,
respectively. Management believes that current pricing and reserves make
adequate provision for AIDS-related claim experience.

   Mutual Funds and Asset Management

      PFS Investments is a registered broker-dealer through which the PFS sales
force markets mutual funds and variable annuities. For the years ended December
31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, PFS' total mutual fund sales were $2.689 billion,
$2.327 billion and $1.551 billion, respectively. The PFS sales force began
marketing Smith Barney mutual funds through a separate distribution arrangement
with PFS Distributors, Inc. in mid-1995 and in March 1996 began selling The
Concert Series(R). The Concert Series(R) is a group of mutual funds that invests
in various Smith Barney mutual funds instead of directly in stocks, bonds or
other securities. Sales of Smith Barney mutual funds accounted for approximately
26%, 24% and 2%, respectively, of PFS' total mutual fund sales in 1997, 1996 and
1995. At December 31, 1997, approximately 27,500 independent agent members of
the PFS sales force (including approximately 3,000 licensed in Canada only) were
also independent registered securities representatives of PFS Investments and/or
PFSL Investments Canada Ltd.




      PFS Investments is also the exclusive retail distributor of Concert
Investment Series(sm) mutual funds (formerly Common Sense(R) Trust mutual
funds), and certain of the Company's subsidiaries provide underwriting, transfer
agency and custodial services to these funds. Sales of shares of Concert
Investment Series(sm) accounted for approximately 23%, 27% and 39%,
respectively, of total mutual funds sales by PFS for 1997, 1996 and 1995. In
December 1994, the Company sold American Capital Management & Research, Inc., a
mutual fund company and also the co-sponsor of Concert Investment Series(sm), to
The Van Kampen Merritt Companies, Inc. ("VKM"). In December 1997, the Company
repurchased the advisory contracts for this series of mutual funds from an
affiliate of VKM.

Travelers Life and Annuity

   Principal Products

      Travelers Life and Annuity offers fixed and variable deferred annuities,
payout annuities and term, universal and variable life and long-term care
insurance to individuals and small businesses. It also provides group pension
products, including guaranteed investment contracts, and group annuities to
employer-sponsored retirement and savings plans. Travelers Life and Annuity
views market specialization and distribution diversification as critical
components of profitability. It has updated its individual product portfolio to
include a range of competitively priced fixed, indexed and variable annuity,
term, universal and variable life and long-term care insurance products for its
customers.

      Individual accumulation fixed and variable annuities, group annuities and
pension plan products are used for retirement funding purposes. Variable
annuities permit policyholders to direct retirement funds into a number of
separate accounts which offer various investment options. Payout annuities are
used for structuring settlements of certain indemnity claims and making other
payments to policyholders over a period of time.

      Guaranteed investment contracts, which provide a guaranteed return on
investment, continue to be a popular investment choice for employer-sponsored
retirement and savings plans. Group annuities purchased by employer sponsored
plans fulfill retirement obligations to individual employees.

      Individual life insurance provides protection against financial loss due
to death. Life insurance is also used to meet estate, business planning and
retirement needs.

      Long-term care insurance provides income and asset protection against the
high costs of care associated with home health, assisted living and nursing home
care.




      The following table sets forth written premiums, net of reinsurance, and
deposits for the Travelers Life and Annuity unit.

                              Premiums and Deposits

                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                        ------------------------
                                                         1997     1996     1995
                                                         ----     ----     ----
                                                              (In millions)
Premiums
  Individual life                                       $  116   $  122   $  124
  Long-term care                                           184      128       88
  Individual accident and health(1)                         16       24      200
  Payout annuities                                         229       76       90
                                                        ------   ------   ------
   Total premiums                                          545      350      502
                                                        ------   ------   ------
Deposits
  Universal life insurance                                 172      169      149
  Annuities
   Individual fixed accumulation                           779      621      692
   Individual variable accumulation(2)                   1,775    1,370      956
   Payout annuities                                        102       86       88
  Guaranteed investment contracts                        1,816      764      681
  Group separate accounts and managed funds(3)             557      276      362
  Other fixed funds                                         68      186      115
  Corporate-owned life insurance(4)                          7       30       91
                                                        ------   ------   ------
   Total deposits                                        5,276    3,502    3,134
                                                        ------   ------   ------
   Total premiums and deposits                          $5,821   $3,852   $3,636
                                                        ======   ======   ======

- ----------
(1) The decline in 1996 reflects the Company's distribution of Transport
    Holdings Inc., the indirect parent of Transport Life Insurance Company, to
    the Company's stockholders in September 1995.
(2) The increase in individual variable accumulation deposits reflects
    successful introduction of variable annuities in the Salomon Smith Barney
    distribution network and other distribution and product development
    initiatives.
(3) The 1997, 1996 and 1995 deposits include $353 million, $146 million and
    $200 million, respectively, of deposits relating to the transfer in house
    of pension fund assets previously managed externally.
(4) TIC is not currently marketing corporate-owned life insurance. Deposits
    are attributable to contracts previously issued by the Company's Managed
    Care and Employee Benefits Operations ("MCEBO") (which were sold in 1995)
    and transferred to Travelers Life and Annuity effective January 1, 1995.

      For information about reinsurance, see "Insurance Services - General --
Reinsurance."

   Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

      TIC is licensed to sell and market its individual products in all 50
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Bahamas and the U.S.
and British Virgin Islands. TLAC is licensed in 47 states and the District of
Columbia to sell and market life insurance and is licensed in 46 states and the
District of Columbia to sell and market variable annuity products.




      Individual products are primarily marketed through The Copeland Companies
("Copeland"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of TIC, Salomon Smith Barney
Financial Consultants and a nationwide network of independent agencies. Copeland
is a captive sales organization of personal retirement planning specialists
focused primarily on the qualified periodic deferred annuity marketplace, and
accounted for approximately 41% of total individual deferred annuity production
in 1997 and approximately 39% in each of 1996 and 1995. Copeland account
executives also sell Smith Barney mutual funds. Salomon Smith Barney's Financial
Consultants distribute Travelers Life and Annuity's non-qualified deferred
annuities and individual life and long-term care products. Salomon Smith
Barney's share of Travelers Life and Annuity's total individual deferred annuity
production was 38% in each of 1997 and 1996 and 33% in 1995. The nationwide
network of independent agencies sold the majority of the individual life and
long term care business in each of 1997, 1996 and 1995 and accounted for 21%,
23% and 27%, respectively, of individual annuity premiums and deposits in each
of those years. Tower Square Securities, Inc. ("Tower Square Securities"), a
wholly owned subsidiary of TIC, is an introducing broker-dealer offering a full
line of brokerage services. Tower Square Securities facilitates the sale of
individual variable life and annuity insurance products by the independent
agents of TIC.

      TIC has also been expanding the sale of its individual life and long-term
care products through other distribution networks. To accomplish this, TIC has
entered into strategic alliances with a select number of established producers
including Travelers Net Plus, a long-term care specialty distributor that
markets primarily through targeted direct mailing, and TowerMark, a joint
venture focused on recruiting and supporting agencies serving high-end estate
planning customers. In March 1997, Copeland further broadened its distribution
channels through its acquisition of Donald F. Smith & Associates, a regional
provider of tax-sheltered annuity programs in the healthcare marketplace.

      Group pension products and annuities are marketed by Travelers Life and
Annuity's salaried staff directly to plan sponsors and are also placed through
independent consultants and investment advisers. The major factors affecting the
pricing of these contracts are the economics of the capital markets, primarily
the interest rate environment, the availability of appropriate investments and
surplus required to support this business. The pricing of products and services
also reflects charges for expenses, mortality, profit and other relevant
financial factors such as credit risk.




   Life Insurance in Force

      The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
Travelers Life and Annuity life insurance in force and related statistical data
on a statutory basis for 1995 through 1997.

                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                          -----------------------------------
                                            1997         1996         1995
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
                                       (In millions of dollars, except as noted)

In force beginning of year                $  50,409    $  49,179    $  48,998
Additions                                     6,476        6,566        6,153
Terminations(1)                              (5,240)      (5,336)      (5,972)
                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
In force end of year                      $  51,645    $  50,409    $  49,179
                                          =========    =========    =========
The amounts in force at end of
   year are before reinsurance ceded
   in the following amounts               $  22,863    $  19,474    $  16,806
                                          =========    =========    =========
At end of year:
   Number of policies in force(2)           528,273      545,682      563,286
   Average size of policy
     in force (in dollars)                $  97,761    $  92,371    $  87,307

- ----------
(1) Includes terminations due to death, surrenders and lapses. 1995
    terminations also include policy terminations attributable to the
    distribution of Transport Holdings Inc. to the Company's stockholders.
(2) The declines reflect the gradual run-off of old whole life policies
    written several years ago at relatively low levels of per policy insurance
    coverage. This was partially offset by the sale of term and universal life
    policies with significantly higher levels of insurance coverage.

   Insurance Reserves and Contractholder Funds

      As life, long-term care and disability income insurance and annuity
premiums are received, Travelers Life and Annuity establishes policy benefit
reserves that reflect the present value of expected future obligations, net of
the present value of expected future net premiums. These reserves generally
reflect long-term fixed obligations to policyholders and are based on
assumptions as to interest rates, future mortality, morbidity, persistency and
expenses, with provision for adverse deviation. Policy benefit reserves, which
give appropriate recognition to reinsurance, are established based on factors
derived from past experience.

      Contractholder funds arise from the issuance of individual life contracts
that include an identifiable investment component, individual deferred annuities
and certain individual payout annuity contracts. Contractholder funds generally
are equal to deposits received and interest credited less withdrawals, mortality
charges and administrative expenses. Contractholder funds also include receipts
from the issuance of pension investment contracts.




      AIDS-related claims paid by Travelers Life and Annuity in 1997, 1996 and
1995 were 0.3%, 0.7% and 1.6%, respectively, as a percentage of total life
claims paid, and 0.3%, 0.4% and 0.3%, respectively, as a percentage of total
health claims paid. Management believes that current pricing and reserves make
adequate provision for AIDS-related claim experience.

Competition and Regulation

      For a description of competition and regulation relating to the Company's
life insurance businesses, see "Insurance Services - General."

Investments

      For information on the investment portfolios of the Company's life
insurance businesses, see "Insurance Services - General."

                          INSURANCE SERVICES - GENERAL

Ratings

      Insurance companies are rated by rating agencies to provide both industry
participants and insurance consumers with meaningful information on specific
insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a
strong ability to pay claims. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to
policyholders and are not directed toward protection of investors. Such ratings
are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any
security and may be revised or withdrawn at any time. Rating agencies focus
primarily on the following factors: capital resources, financial strength,
demonstrated management expertise in the insurance business, credit analysis,
systems development, market segment position and growth opportunities,
marketing, sales conduct practices, investment operations, minimum
policyholders' surplus requirements and capital sufficiency to meet projected
growth, as well as access to such traditional capital as may be necessary to
continue to meet standards for capital adequacy.




      The following table summarizes the current claims-paying and financial
strength ratings of the Company's subsidiaries, including Travelers C&S of
America, and insurance pools by A.M. Best, Duff & Phelps Corp., Moody's
Investor's Service Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Group. The table also
presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.



- ----------
(1) The Travelers Property Casualty pool consists of The Travelers Indemnity
    Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, The Phoenix Insurance
    Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and
    Surety Company of Illinois, Farmington Casualty Company, The Travelers
    Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Automobile Insurance Company of
    Hartford, Connecticut, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The
    Travelers Indemnity Company of America, The Travelers Indemnity Company of
    Missouri, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Commercial
    Insurance Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Illinois, Travelers
    Property Casualty Insurance Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The
    Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security
    Insurance Company, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company of
    Illinois and Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company.
(2) The Gulf pool consists of Gulf Insurance Company, Gulf Insurance Company
    U.K. Limited, Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, Select Insurance
    Company, Atlantic Insurance Company and Gulf Group Lloyds.

Reinsurance

      The Company reinsures a portion of the risks it underwrites in an effort
to control its exposure to losses, stabilize earnings and protect capital
resources. The Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of these risks and pays
premiums based upon the risk and exposure of the policies subject to such
reinsurance. Reinsurance involves credit risk and is subject to aggregate loss
limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the
reinsurance ceded, the Company remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on
all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after allowances for
uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including escrow funds
and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company
monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis, and reviews
its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on
their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product
offerings. For additional information concerning reinsurance, see Note 13 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   Property and Casualty Insurance

      TAP utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to control its exposure
to large property and casualty losses. TAP utilizes the following types of
reinsurance: (i) facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for
all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy and




each policy reinsured is separately negotiated; (ii) treaty reinsurance, in
which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and
(iii) catastrophe reinsurance, in which TAP is indemnified for an amount of loss
in excess of a specified retention with respect to losses resulting from a
catastrophic event.

      The following presents TAP's top five reinsurers (excluding Lloyd's of
London ("Lloyd's") which is discussed in more detail below) by reinsurance
recoverable at December 31, 1997 (in millions):



      As of December 31, 1997, TAP had ceded insurance losses and loss
adjustment expenses to Lloyd's of $352 million. In 1996, Lloyd's restructured
its operations with respect to claims for years prior to 1993 and reinsured
these into Equitas Limited ("Equitas"). Approximately $266 million of TAP's
Lloyd's reinsurance recoverable at year end relates to Equitas liabilities and
is currently unrated. The remaining recoverables of $86 million is from Lloyd's
continuing market which was recently rated A (3rd highest of 15 ratings) by A.M.
Best, whose ratings may be revised or withdrawn at any time.

      The impact of the Lloyd's restructuring on the collectibility of amounts
recoverable by TAP from Lloyd's cannot be quantified at this time. The Company
believes that it is not likely that the outcome could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operating results, financial condition or liquidity.

      TAP participates in pools with other insurers to provide capacity for
unique and high-valued risks such as exposures related to the aviation and
nuclear power industries. TAP's maximum net exposure to this type of business at
December 31, 1997 was $15 million per risk.

      At December 31, 1997, TAP had $8.2 billion in reinsurance recoverables. Of
this amount, $3.4 billion is for pools and associations that relate primarily to
workers' compensation service business and have the strength of the
participating insurance companies on a joint basis supporting these cessions.
Also, $1.3 billion is attributable to structured settlements relating primarily
to personal injury claims for which TAP has purchased an annuity and remains
contingently liable in the event of a default by the company issuing the
annuity. Of the remaining $3.5 billion ceded to reinsurers at December 31, 1997,
$755 million was environmental, asbestos and cumulative injury-related and the
remainder principally reflects reinsurance in support of ongoing business. In
addition, at December 31, 1997, $397 million of reinsurance recoverables were
collateralized by letters of credit.




      Net Retention Policy. The descriptions below relate to reinsurance
arrangements of TAP in effect at January 1, 1998. For third-party liability,
including automobile no-fault, the reinsurance agreements used by Commercial
Accounts and Select Accounts limit the net retention to a maximum of $4 million
per insured, per occurrence. Gulf Specialty utilizes various reinsurance
mechanisms and has limited its net retention to $4.5 million per risk for any
line of business. For commercial property insurance, there is a $5 million
maximum retention per risk with 100% reinsurance coverage for risks with higher
limits. The reinsurance agreement in place for workers' compensation policies
written by Commercial Accounts and Select Accounts and some segments of
Alternative Markets and Gulf Specialty covers 100% of each loss between $1
million and $10 million. For National Accounts, reinsurance arrangements are
typically tiered, or layered, such that only levels of risk acceptable to TAP
are retained. The reinsurance agreement in place for Personal Lines umbrella
policies covers 100% of each loss between $1 million and $5 million. For
personal property insurance, there is a $6 million maximum retention per risk.
For directors' and officers' liability, employment practices liability and
blended insurance, Bond Specialty retains up to $5 million per risk. For surety
protection, Bond Specialty has reinsurance coverage for 95% of up to $50 million
of liability in excess of $50 million of liability. In addition, Bond
Specialty's accident year results are protected by an aggregate excess of loss
treaty that provides 100% of approximately $53 million of reinsurance coverage
in excess of a $122 million retention.

      Catastrophe Reinsurance. TAP utilizes reinsurance agreements with
nonaffiliated reinsurers to control its exposure to losses resulting from one
occurrence. For the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one
occurrence, reinsurance agreements cover 40% of total losses between $250
million and $750 million. For multiple workers' compensation losses arising from
a single occurrence, reinsurance agreements cover 100% of losses between $10
million and $250 million and, for workers' compensation losses caused by
property perils, reinsurance agreements cover 40% of losses between $250 million
and $750 million.

      For commercial property insurance sold through Commercial Accounts and
certain National Accounts, 10% of all losses are reinsured in 1998, subject to
an occurrence limitation of $200 million. For Personal Lines homeowners
insurance, in 1998, 25% of losses in states along the East Coast are reinsured
up to a maximum recovery of $187 million per occurrence. The covered territory
of this Homeowners Quota Share includes Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Washington, D.C.

      For the accumulation of net casualty losses arising out of one occurrence,
a casualty clash agreement covers 95% of losses between $10 million and $50
million.

      Reinsurance Fund

      TAP also participates in the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"),
which is a state-mandated catastrophe reinsurance fund. FHCF is primarily funded
by premiums from insurance companies that write residential property business in
Florida and, if insufficient, assessments on insurance companies that write
other property and casualty insurance, excluding




workers' compensation. FHCF's resources are limited to these contributions and
to its borrowing capacity at the time of a significant catastrophe. There can be
no assurance that these resources will be sufficient to meet the obligations of
FHCF.

      The Company's recovery of less than contracted amounts from FHCF could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations in the
event of a significant catastrophe in Florida. However, the Company believes
that it is not likely that the Company's recovery of less than contracted
amounts from FHCF would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition or liquidity.

   Life Insurance

      The Company's policy is to obtain reinsurance on individual life policies
for amounts above certain retention limits, which limits vary with age and
underwriting classification. During 1997, new universal life business was
reinsured under an 80%/20% quota share reinsurance program and new term life
business was reinsured under a 90%/10% quota share reinsurance program.
Retention on life insurance risks after reinsurance remains up to a maximum of
$1.5 million per insured for an ordinary life risk, depending on the subsidiary
involved, the type of policy, the year of issue and the age of the insured.
Other reinsurance arrangements are made from time to time to cede or assume
existing blocks of business.

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Growth

   Property and Casualty Insurance

      The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the
areas of price, service, product offerings, agent relationships and, in the case
of personal property and casualty business, method of distribution (i.e., use of
independent agents, captive agents and/or salaried employees). There are
approximately 1,140 property-casualty organizations in the United States,
comprised of approximately 2,400 property-casualty companies. Of those
organizations, the top 200 account for over 90% of the consolidated industry's
total net written premiums. In addition, an increasing amount of commercial
risks are covered by purchaser self-insurance, large deductibles,
risk-purchasing groups, risk-retention groups and captive companies.

      Commercial Lines. The insurance industry is represented in the commercial
lines marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size. The industry is
comprised of small local firms, large regional firms and large national firms,
as well as self-insurance programs or captive insurers. Market competition works
to set the price charged for insurance products and the level of service
provided within the insurance regulatory framework. Growth is driven by a
company's ability to provide insurance and services at a price that is
reasonable and acceptable to the customer. In addition, the marketplace is
affected by available capacity of the insurance industry as measured by
policyholders' surplus. Surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction
with profit levels generated by the industry. Growth in premium and service
business is also measured by a company's ability to retain existing customers
and to attract new customers.




      The National Accounts market is highly competitive. Competition is based
primarily on price and breadth of products and services. National Accounts
business is generally written through national brokers and regional agents. The
Company also competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy
management services. These contracts, which generally have three-year terms, are
selected by state agencies through a bid process based on quality of service and
price. The Company has emerged as the largest assigned risk plan service insurer
in the industry with approximately 25% of the market in 1997.

      The Commercial Accounts market is highly competitive. Commercial Accounts
business has historically been written through independent agents and brokers,
although some companies use direct writing. Competitors in this market are
primarily national property-casualty insurance companies willing to write most
classes of business using traditional products and pricing and, to a lesser
extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche
programs for specific industry segments. Companies compete on price, product
offerings, response time in policy issuance and claim and loss prevention
services. Additionally, reduced overhead and improved efficiency through
automation and response time to customer needs are key to success in this
market. The construction market has become a focused industry segment for
several large insurance companies. Construction market business is written
through agents and brokers. Insurance companies compete in this market based
upon price, product offering and claim and risk management service. The Company
utilizes its specialized underwriters, engineers, auditors and claim handlers
who have extensive experience and knowledge of the construction industry to work
with agents and brokers to compete effectively in this market.

      The Select Accounts market is highly competitive and is typically written
through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers. Both
national and regional property-casualty insurance companies compete in the
Select Accounts market which is generally comprised of low risk, "main street"
business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry
practices and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product
offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on price, product
offerings and response time in policy services. The Company has established a
strong marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided it
with defined underwriting policies, competitive prices and efficient automated
environments.

      The market in which Specialty Accounts competes includes small to
mid-sized niche companies that target certain lines of insurance and larger,
multi-line companies that focus on various segments of the Specialty Accounts
market. Specialty Accounts business is generally written through wholesale
brokers and retail agents and brokers throughout the United States. Gulf
Specialty derives a competitive advantage through its underwriting practices,
low expense levels and broad product offering base. Bond Specialty's reputation
for clear, timely decision-making, a nationwide network of local underwriting
and industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships as well as
its ability to offer its customers a full range of financial services products,
enable it to compete effectively. Its ability to cross-sell Bond Specialty's
products to customers of National Accounts, Commercial Accounts, Select Accounts
and through other Company units provides further competitive advantages for the
Company.




      Personal Lines. Personal lines insurance is written by hundreds of
insurance companies of varying sizes. Although national companies write the
majority of the business, the Company also faces competition from local or
regional companies which often have a competitive advantage because of their
knowledge of the local marketplace and their relationship with local independent
agents. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors are price,
service, perceived stability of the insurer and name recognition. The Company
also competes for business within each of the independent agencies representing
it, because these agencies also offer policies of competing independent agency
companies. At the agency level, the Company believes that competition is
primarily based on price and the level of service, including claims handling, as
well as the level of automation and the development of long-term relationships
with the individual agents. The Company also competes with insurance companies
that use captive agents or salaried employees to sell their products. Because
these companies generally pay lower commissions than independent agency
companies, they may be able to generate business at a lower cost than the
Company. Due to this expense advantage, the direct writing companies have
gradually expanded their market share in recent years. However, in addition to
its traditional independent agency distribution, Personal Lines has broadened
its distribution channels for Personal Lines products to include marketing
through the PFS sales force, marketing to sponsoring organizations including
employee and affinity groups and establishment of joint marketing arrangements
with other insurers. The Company believes that its continued focus on expense
management practices enables it to price its products competitively in all of
its distribution channels.

   Life Insurance

      The Company's life insurance businesses compete with national, regional
and local insurance companies. Competition is based upon price, product design
and services rendered to producers and policyholders. The insurance industry is
extremely competitive, in both price and services, and no single insurer is
dominant. The recent trend of consolidations in the industry has added to the
competitive environment. Travelers Life and Annuity believes that its focus on
market specialization and its diversified distribution network help it to
compete effectively. PFS competes in the market by focusing on supplying an
integrated range of financial products to the middle-income market through a
formalized needs-based sales program.

      Savings banks also compete directly in the sale of life insurance in
Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York. Competition for the savings dollar
arises from entities such as banks, investment advisors, mutual funds and other
financial institutions.

      PFS Investments is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, and in all
50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands,
the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. Tower Square Securities is registered as a
broker-dealer with the SEC, and in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the District
of Columbia. Similarly, Copeland Equities, Inc., a subsidiary of Copeland, is
registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, in 49 states and the District of
Columbia. Each is subject to extensive regulation by those agencies and the
securities administrators of those jurisdictions, primarily for the benefits of
its customers, including minimum capital and licensing requirements. PFS
Investments faces competition not only from large financial services firms




offering products and services that cross traditional business boundaries, but
also from insurance companies, including other subsidiaries of the Company,
offering life insurance products with investment features.

Regulation

   State Regulation

      The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the
various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The extent of
regulation varies but generally has its source in statutes that delegate
regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of
insurance in each state. The regulation, supervision and administration relate,
among other things, to the standards of solvency that must be met and
maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and
limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the size of risks
that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned
premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit
of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct
including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other
underwriting and claims practices. In addition, many states have enacted
variations of competitive rate-making laws which allow insurers to set certain
premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the
prior approval of the state insurance department. State insurance departments
also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and
require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial
condition of companies and other matters.

      At the present time, the Company's insurance subsidiaries are collectively
licensed to transact insurance business in all states, the District of Columbia,
Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as well as Canada, the United
Kingdom and the Northern Mariana Islands.

      Although the Company is not regulated as an insurance company, it is the
owner of the capital stock of its insurance subsidiaries and as such is subject
to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of
each of the states of domicile of its insurance subsidiaries. All holding
company statutes, as well as certain other laws, require disclosure and, in some
instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company
and an affiliate. The holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws,
also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of
a domestic insurer and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

      The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state
statutory and regulatory restrictions in each company's state of domicile, which
limit the amount of dividends or distributions by an insurance company to its
stockholders. The ability of TIC and subsidiaries of TAP to pay dividends to the
Company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, future earnings
and regulatory restrictions. A maximum of $551 million of statutory surplus is
available in 1998 for dividends from TIC to its parent without prior approval of
the Connecticut Insurance Department.




Dividend payments to TAP from its insurance subsidiaries are limited to $805
million in 1998 without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department.

      The Company's principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in
Connecticut and Massachusetts. The insurance holding company law of Connecticut
requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the
declaration or payment of any dividend, which together with other distributions
made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the
insurer's surplus or (ii) the insurer's net income for the twelve-month period
ending the preceding December 31st, in each case determined in accordance with
statutory accounting practices. Such declaration or payment is further limited
by adjusted unassigned funds (surplus), as determined in accordance with
statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other
states in which the Company's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally
contain similar (although in certain instances somewhat more restrictive)
limitations on the payment of dividends.

      Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their
state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by certain insureds as a result of
the insolvency of other insurers. Depending upon state law, insurers can be
assessed an amount that is generally equal to between 1% and 2% of premiums
written for the relevant lines of insurance in that state each year to pay the
claims of an insolvent insurer. Most of these payments are recoverable through
premium rates, premium tax credits or policy surcharges. Significant increases
in assessments could limit the ability of the Company's insurance subsidiaries
to recover such assessments through tax credits. In addition, there have been
some legislative efforts to limit or repeal the tax offset provisions, which
efforts, to date, have been generally unsuccessful. These assessments may
increase or decrease in the future depending upon the rate of insolvencies of
insurance companies.

      The Company also participates in FHCF, which is a state-mandated
catastrophe reinsurance fund that provides reimbursement to insurers for a
portion of their future catastrophic hurricane losses. FHCF is primarily funded
by premiums from the insurance companies that write residential property
business in Florida and, if insufficient, assessments on insurance companies
that write other property and casualty insurance in Florida, excluding workers'
compensation. FHCF's resources are limited to these contributions and to its
borrowing capacity at the time of a significant catastrophe in Florida.

      The Company's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are also
required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally
involving workers' compensation and automobile insurance, which provide various
insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage in the voluntary market. Participation in these pools
in most states is generally in proportion to voluntary writings of related lines
of business in that state. Earned premiums related to such pools and assigned
risks for the Company were $226 million, $379 million and $315 million in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively. The related underwriting losses for the Company
were $16 million, $39 million and $152 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.




      Proposed legislation and regulatory changes have been introduced in the
states from time to time that would modify certain laws and regulations
affecting the financial services industry, including the provisions governing
relationships among insurance companies and agents, investment banks and
commercial banks. The potential impact of such legislation on the Company's
insurance businesses cannot be predicted at this time.

      In addition to state insurance laws, the Company's insurance subsidiaries
are also subject to general business and corporation laws, state securities
laws, consumer protection laws, fair credit reporting acts and other laws. The
insurance industry generally is exempt from federal antitrust laws because of
the application of the McCarran-Ferguson Act.

   Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control

      Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the protection
of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled (or,
in some cases, having such substantial business that it is deemed to be
commercially domiciled) in that state. The Company owns, directly or indirectly,
certain property and casualty insurance companies domiciled in the States of
California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Missouri,
New Jersey and Texas and certain life insurance companies domiciled in
Connecticut, Massachusetts and Georgia. "Control" is generally presumed to exist
through the ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic
insurance company or of any company that controls a domestic insurance company.
Any purchaser of shares of Common Stock representing 10% or more of the voting
power of the Company will be presumed to have acquired control of the Company's
domestic insurance subsidiaries unless, following application by such purchaser
in each insurance subsidiary's state of domicile, the relevant Insurance
Commissioner determines otherwise. In addition, many state insurance regulatory
laws contain provisions that require prenotification to state agencies of a
change in control of a nondomestic admitted insurance company in that state.
While such prenotification statutes do not authorize the state agency to
disapprove the change of control, such statutes do authorize issuance of a cease
and desist order with respect to the nondomestic admitted insurer if certain
conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions
that would constitute a change in control of the Company would generally require
prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the Company's
insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled and may require
preacquisition notification in those states that have adopted preacquisition
notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to
transact business.

      Such requirements may deter, delay or prevent certain transactions
affecting the control of or the ownership of Common Stock, including
transactions that could be advantageous to the stockholders of the Company.

   Insurance Regulatory Information System

      The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or "tests" called
the Insurance Regulatory Information System ("IRIS") that were designed for
early identification of companies




that may require special attention by insurance regulatory authorities. These
tests were developed primarily to assist state insurance departments in
executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of
insurance companies. Insurance companies submit data on an annual basis to the
NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using ratios covering twelve categories of
financial data with defined "usual ranges" for each category.

      Falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios is not considered a failing
result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early
monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for
financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the
usual ranges. An insurance company may fall out of the usual range for one or
more ratios because of specific transactions that are in themselves immaterial.
Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it
falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. In normal years,
15% of the companies included in the IRIS system are expected by the NAIC to be
outside the usual range on four or more ratios.

      In each of the last three years certain of the Company's insurance
subsidiaries have been outside of the usual range for certain IRIS ratios. In
all such instances, the regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that there
is no solvency problem. It is possible that similar events could occur this
year, and management believes that the resolution would be the same. No
regulatory action has been taken by any state insurance department or the NAIC
with respect to IRIS ratios of any of the Company's insurance subsidiaries for
the three years ended December 31, 1997.

      For 1997, Travelers Indemnity was outside the usual range for the
liabilities to liquid assets ratio. Travelers Indemnity is the lead company for
the Travelers Property Casualty pool and is also the parent of 19 insurance
companies and several other non-insurance entities. As a result, this ratio is
distorted because all of the liabilities are included in the calculation while
Travelers Indemnity's significant investment in affiliates, which increased in
1997, is excluded from liquid assets. For 1996, both the two-year overall
operating ratio and the two-year reserve development to surplus ratios were
outside the usual range for Travelers Casualty and Standard Fire because of
actions taken during 1996 and 1995 to strengthen reserves for environmental and
asbestos-related claims. In addition, the change in writings ratio produced an
unusual value for Standard Fire and the estimated current reserve deficiency to
surplus ratio was outside the usual range for Travelers C&S of America, both as
a result of a decision in 1995 to combine its two intercompany pooling
arrangements (one for Personal Lines and one for Commercial Lines) into one
pool. If these two ratios were recalculated to have all items reflect the new
agreement, the ratios would not produce unusual values. Concurrent with the
change in the intercompany pooling arrangements, capital was reallocated among
Aetna P&C insurers, which resulted in an unusual value in the change in surplus
ratio for Standard Fire.

   Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements

      In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the NAIC has
adopted a formula and model law to implement RBC requirements for life insurance
companies and most property and casualty insurance companies, which is designed
to assess minimum capital requirements and to raise




the level of protection that statutory surplus provides for policyholder
obligations. The RBC requirements are to be used as early warning tools by the
NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. For
these purposes, an insurer's surplus is measured in relation to its specific
asset and liability profiles. A company's risk-based capital is calculated by
applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items, where the factor
is higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for less risky
items.

      The RBC formula for property-casualty insurance companies measures four
major areas of risk facing property and casualty insurers: (i) underwriting,
which encompasses the risk of adverse loss developments and inadequate pricing;
(ii) declines in asset values arising from credit risk; (iii) declines in asset
values arising from investment risks; and (iv) off-balance sheet risk arising
from adverse experience from non-controlled assets, guarantees for affiliates or
other contingent liabilities and reserve and premium growth. Pursuant to the
law, insurers having less statutory surplus than that required by the RBC
calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending
on the level of capital inadequacy.

      The RBC formula for life insurance companies calculates baseline life
risk-based capital as a mathematical combination of amounts for the following
four categories of risk: (i) asset risk (i.e., the risk of asset default); (ii)
insurance risk (i.e., the risk of adverse mortality and morbidity experience);
(iii) interest rate risk (i.e., the risk of loss due to changes in interest
rates); and (iv) business risk (i.e., normal business and management risk).

      The RBC law provides for four levels of regulatory action. The extent of
regulatory intervention and action increases as the level of surplus to RBC
falls. The first level, the Company Action Level (as defined by the NAIC),
requires an insurer to submit a plan of corrective actions to the regulator if
surplus falls below 200% of the RBC amount. The Regulatory Action Level (as
defined by the NAIC) requires an insurer to submit a plan containing corrective
actions and permits the relevant Insurance Commissioner to perform an
examination or other analysis and issue a corrective order if surplus falls
below 150% of the RBC amount. The Authorized Control Level (as defined by the
NAIC) allows the relevant Insurance Commissioner to rehabilitate or liquidate an
insurer in addition to the aforementioned actions if surplus falls below 100% of
the RBC amount. The fourth action level is the Mandatory Control Level (as
defined by the NAIC) which requires the relevant Insurance Commissioner to
rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer if surplus falls below 70% of the RBC
amount. Based on the foregoing formula, at December 31, 1997, the RBC ratios of
the Company's insurance subsidiaries were in excess of levels that would require
company or regulatory action.

      The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately
capitalized companies which operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it
is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank such
companies. At December 31, 1997, all of the Company's life and property-casualty
insurance companies had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring
regulatory action at any of the four levels.




   Federal Regulation

      Although the federal government does not directly regulate the business of
insurance, other than flood insurance, federal initiatives often have an impact
on the insurance industry and on insurance products, some of which are also
securities under the federal securities laws. Legislation has been introduced in
Congress during the past several sessions that, if enacted, would result in
substantially greater federal regulation of the insurance business. Current and
proposed federal measures that may affect the property and casualty industry may
include: possible changes to CERCLA and the tax laws governing property and
casualty insurance companies; proposals regarding natural disaster protection,
tort reform (including limits to product liability lawsuits) and the use of
credit history; and the enforcement of territorial underwriting in Personal
Lines. In addition, proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress from
time to time that would modify certain laws and regulations affecting the
financial services industry, including the provisions regarding affiliations
among insurance companies, investment banks and commercial banks.

      The Budget Proposal, as described in "Investment Services -- Regulation,"
may also adversely impact the Company's insurance businesses.

      It is not possible to predict whether any of the proposed legislation
discussed above will be enacted, what form such legislation might take when
enacted, or the potential effects of such legislation on the Company and its
competitors.

      Certain variable life insurance and individual and group variable
annuities, as well as modified guaranteed annuities, and their related separate
accounts are subject to regulation by the SEC.

Investments

      This section discusses the investment portfolios of the businesses
described in the Company's insurance services segments.

      Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and
regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments.
In general, these laws and regulations permit investments, within specified
limits and subject to certain qualifications, in federal, state and municipal
obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage
loans, real estate and certain other investments.

      At December 31, 1997, the investment holdings of the companies included in
the insurance services segments were composed primarily of fixed maturities. At
December 31, 1997, approximately 96% in total dollar amount of the fixed
maturities portfolios of such companies had investment grade ratings. The
remaining investments are principally mortgage loans and real estate, discussed
below, policy loans and other investments. For additional information regarding
these investment portfolios, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and the discussion




of Asset Quality in the Property & Casualty Insurance Services Segment
discussion in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

      Consistent with the nature of related contract obligations, the invested
assets attributable to group insurance and individual life, accident and health
and financial services are primarily long-term fixed income investments such as
corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and
mortgage loans. A small portion of the invested assets related to these
operations is in preferred and common stocks and real estate equity investments.
The property-casualty fixed maturities portfolios (principally bonds) are
shifted from time to time to respond to the changing economic outlook, insurance
underwriting results and the resultant changes in the federal income tax
position of the Company and its subsidiaries.

      Cash available for investment is principally derived from operating
activities and investment income. In addition, cash becomes available for
investment from prepayment, maturity and sale of investments. In recent years,
the underperforming mortgage loan and real estate portfolios have been
significantly reduced. See "-- Mortgage Loans and Real Estate Held for Sale."
Different investment policies have been developed for various lines of business
based on the product requirements, the type and term of the liabilities
associated with these products, regulatory requirements and tax treatment of the
businesses in which each company is engaged.

   Joint Venture

      In October 1997, TIC and Tishman Speyer Properties ("Tishman"), a
worldwide real estate owner, developer and manager, formed a joint real estate
venture with an initial equity commitment of $792 million. TIC and certain of
its affiliates committed $420 million in real estate equity and $100 million in
cash while Tishman committed $272 million in properties and cash. Both companies
are serving as asset managers for the venture and Tishman is primarily
responsible for the venture's real estate acquisition and development efforts.

   Mortgage Loans and Real Estate Held for Sale

      At December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the mortgage loan portfolio of the
businesses included in the Company's insurance services segments consisted of
approximately $3.6 billion, $3.8 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. At
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the real estate held for sale portfolio
consisted of approximately $237 million, $459 million and $321 million,
respectively. The Company has continued a program of disposing of its
underperforming real estate investments, expediting the payoff of certain
mortgage loans and reinvesting the proceeds to obtain current market yields. See
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" for additional information.

      The Company's accelerated liquidation strategy for underperforming real
estate and certain mortgage loans has mitigated the negative impact that these
underperforming portfolios have had on the Company's investment income. As a
result of this strategy and improved real estate markets, the




underperforming loans have declined to less than 1% of the portfolio. At
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, approximately $19 million, $91 million and
$252 million or 0.5%, 2% and 6%, respectively, of the combined mortgage loan
portfolio of the Company was classified as underperforming. Underperforming
mortgage loans include delinquent loans, loans in the process of foreclosure and
loans modified at interest rates below market.

      For information regarding the principal balance of mortgage loans at
December 31, 1997 by contractual maturity, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities
because borrowers may have the right to prepay loans with or without prepayment
premiums. Unscheduled payments and sales of mortgage loans were $770 million in
1997 and $1.0 billion in each of 1996 and 1995. The average remaining life of
these mortgages is six years.

      Real estate management evaluates the portfolio on an ongoing basis,
assessing the probabilities of loss with respect to a comprehensive series of
projections, including a host of variables relating to the borrower, the
property, the term of the loan, the tenant composition, rental rates, other
supply and demand factors, and overall economic conditions.

      The following table summarizes by property type the mortgage loan
portfolio and real estate held for sale included in the investment portfolios of
the Company as of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995. For information summarizing
the geographic distribution of the mortgage loan portfolio and real estate
assets, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Property Type:                     Mortgage Loans             Real Estate
- --------------                     --------------             -----------
                              1997     1996     1995     1997     1996     1995
                              ----     ----     ----     ----     ----     ----
                                                (In millions)
Commercial:
   Office                    $1,751   $1,698   $1,551   $   45   $  190   $  177
   Apartment                    317      467      654       24       68        8
   Hotel                        208      244      594       81       63       47
   Retail                       341      518      449       48       60       42
   Industrial                   114      158      181        1       31        9
   Other                         54       41       45       27       34       26
                             ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
Total commercial              2,785    3,126    3,474      226      446      309
Agricultural                    777      686      574       11       13       12
                             ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
   Total                     $3,562   $3,812   $4,048   $  237   $  459   $  321
                             ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======

   Derivatives

      See the section entitled "End User Activity" in Note 20 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the policies and
transactions related to the derivatives activity of the Company.




                         CORPORATE AND OTHER OPERATIONS

      In addition to its four business segments, the Company's Corporate and
Other segment consists of unallocated expenses and earnings primarily related to
interest, corporate administration, and certain corporate investments. In 1995
and through the date of sale in June 1996, this segment also includes the
Company's interest in RCM Capital Management, a California Limited Partnership.

      In May 1997, SSBH sold all of the outstanding stock of Basis Petroleum,
Inc. ("Basis") to Valero Energy Corporation. Basis owned and operated three oil
refineries in the U.S. Gulf Coast region. Basis is presented as a discontinued
operation in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. The loss on sale
was recorded in the fourth quarter of 1996. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

      In January 1995, the Company sold its group life and related businesses to
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("MetLife") for $350 million. In connection
with the sale, the Company agreed to cede to MetLife 100% of its risks in the
businesses sold on an indemnity reinsurance basis, effective January 1, 1995. In
January 1995, The MetraHealth Companies, Inc. was formed as a joint venture of
the group medical insurance businesses of the Company and MetLife and was
subsequently sold in October 1995. These operations have been accounted for as a
discontinued operation. In 1995 and 1996 the Company's discontinued operations
reflect the medical insurance business not yet transferred, the gains from the
sales of these businesses and, in 1995, its equity interest in the earnings of
MetraHealth. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                OTHER INFORMATION

General Business Factors

      In the judgment of the Company, no material part of the business of the
Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer or group of
customers, the loss of any one of which would have a materially adverse effect
on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts
for as much as 10% of the Company's consolidated revenues.

      At December 31, 1997, the Company had approximately 65,600 full-time and
3,300 part-time employees.

Source of Funds

      For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the
long-term debt of the Company's subsidiaries, see Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Liquidity and Capital Resources," and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.




Taxation

      For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations,
see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations," and Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Financial Information about Industry Segments

      For financial information regarding industry segments of the Company, see
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations," and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Executive Officers of the Company

      The current executive officers of the Company are indicated below. Periods
of offices held include offices with the Company's predecessor, CCC. Ages are
given as of March 4, 1998.

                                                                         Officer
Name                      Age   Positions                                Since*
- ----                      ---   ---------                                ------

Sanford I. Weill          64    Chairman of the Board and Chief             1986
                                 Executive Officer of the Company
James Dimon               41    President and Chief Operating Officer of    1986
                                 the Company; Co-Chairman and Co-Chief
                                 Executive Officer of Salomon Smith Barney
Michael A. Carpenter      50    Vice Chairman of the Company;               1995
                                 Chairman, President and Chief Executive
                                 Officer of TIC and TLAC
Thomas W. Jones           48    Vice Chairman of the Company;               1997
                                 Chief Executive Officer of the
                                 Company's Asset Management division
Jeffrey B. Lane           55    Vice Chairman of the Company                1992
Robert I. Lipp            59    Vice Chairman of the Company; Chairman      1986
                                 of the Board, President and Chief 
                                 Executive Officer of TAP
Jon C. Madonna            54    Vice Chairman of the Company;               1997
                                 Vice Chairman of TAP
Deryck C. Maughan         50    Vice Chairman of the Company;               1997
                                 Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive
                                 Officer of Salomon Smith Barney
Joseph J. Plumeri II      54    Vice Chairman of the Company; Chief         1993
                                 Executive Officer of PFS




                                                                         Officer
Name                      Age   Positions                                Since*
- ----                      ---   ---------                                ------

Robert B. Willumstad      52    Vice Chairman of the Company; Chairman      1993
                                 and Chief Executive Officer of CCC
Irwin Ettinger            59    Executive Vice President and Chief          1987
                                 Accounting Officer of the Company
Charles O. Prince, III    48    Executive Vice President, General Counsel   1986
                                 and Secretary of the Company
Steven D. Black           45    Vice Chairman of Salomon Smith Barney       1996
Charles J. Clarke         62    Vice Chairman of TAP; Chairman--            1995
                                 Commercial Lines of TAP
Donald R. Cooper          57    Chief Actuary of the Company                1995
Peter M. Dawkins          59    Chairman, President and Chief Executive     1992
                                 Officer of Travelers Group Diversified
                                 Distribution Services, Inc.
Jay S. Fishman            45    Senior Vice President of the Company;       1991
                                 Vice Chairman of TAP and President and
                                 Chief Executive Officer--Commercial Lines
                                 of TAP
Marjorie Magner           48    President and Chief Operating Officer       1996
                                 of CCC
Heidi G. Miller           44    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial   1992
                                 Officer of the Company
Marc P. Weill             41    Senior Vice President and Chief             1991
                                 Investment Officer of the Company

- ----------
* Indicates the earlier of the date that such officer became an officer of
  the Company or the Company's predecessor and the date that such officer
  became a member of the Company's Planning Group.

      Sanford I. Weill has been a director of the Company since 1986. He has
been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and its
predecessor, CCC, since 1986; he was also its President from 1986 until 1991. He
was President of American Express Company from 1983 to 1985; Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of American Express Insurance Services, Inc.
from 1984 to 1985; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, or a
principal executive officer, of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. from 1965 to 1984;
Chairman of the Board of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. from 1984 to
1985; and a founding partner of Shearson's predecessor partnership from 1960 to
1965. Mr. Weill has been a director of TAP since 1996. Mr. Weill's son, Marc P.
Weill, is a Senior Vice President and an executive officer of the Company. Mr.
Weill is a member of the Business Roundtable and the Business Council. Mr. Weill
is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Hall, and a director of the
Baltimore Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Weill is a member of the Board of Governors of
New York Hospital, Chairman of the Board of Overseers of Cornell University
Medical College and a member of the Joint Board of




New York Hospital - Cornell University Medical College. He is on the Board of
Overseers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and is a director of The New
York and Presbyterian Hospitals Care Network, Inc. He is a member of Cornell
University's Johnson Graduate School of Management Advisory Board and a Board of
Trustees Fellow Emeritus of Cornell University. Mr. Weill is Chairman of the
National Academy Foundation, whose member programs include the Academy of
Finance, the Academy of Travel and Tourism and the Academy of Public Service.
Mr. Weill is a member of the United States Treasury Department's Working Group
on Child Care.

      Mr. Dimon has been a director of the Company since September 1991. He is
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Since the Company's
acquisition of Salomon in November 1997, he has also served as Co-Chairman of
the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Salomon Smith Barney. From January
1996 until November 1997, Mr. Dimon was Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Smith Barney. Mr. Dimon has been a director of TAP since
1996. Mr. Dimon joined the Company in 1986 and since such time has served the
Company and certain of its subsidiaries in various positions of increasing
responsibility. From 1982 to 1985, Mr. Dimon was a Vice President of American
Express Company and Assistant to the President, Sanford I. Weill. Mr. Dimon is a
trustee of New York University Medical Center and a director of the Center on
Addiction and Substance Abuse, the National Association of Securities Dealers,
Inc. and Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc. and a member of the Nominating
Committee of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

      Mr. Carpenter serves as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of
TIC and TLAC and has been a Vice Chairman of the Company since February 1998.
From July 1995 until February 1998 he served as an Executive Vice President of
the Company. From January 1989 to June 1994, Mr. Carpenter was Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kidder, Peabody Group, Inc., an
investment banking and brokerage company that was a wholly owned subsidiary of
General Electric Company. Mr. Carpenter is a director of General Signal
Corporation, ProSource Inc. and the New York City Investment Fund.

      Mr. Jones has been a director of the Company since April 1997 and is a
Vice Chairman of the Company. He is also the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company's Asset Management division. He was, from January 1995 until August
1997, Vice Chairman and a director of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity
Association - College Retirement Equities Fund ("TIAA-CREF"). From January 1993
to August 1997, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of TIAA-CREF. From
1989 to 1993, Mr. Jones was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of TIAA-CREF. Mr. Jones is a director of Freddie Mac (Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corp.) and Thomas & Betts Corporation and a director and Deputy Chairman of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He is a trustee of Cornell University,
Brookings Institution and Educational Broadcasting Corporation (Thirteen/WNET).

      Mr. Lane has been a Vice Chairman of the Company since January 1996. He
has served as a director of Smith Barney from January 1991 through March 1996
and as a director of SB Holdings from November 1993. Mr. Lane served as Vice
Chairman of Smith Barney from January 1991 through January 1996 and as Vice
Chairman of SB Holdings from November 1993 through January




1996. He joined the Company in 1990. Prior to joining the Company in 1990, Mr.
Lane was President and Chief Operating Officer of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.

      Mr. Lipp has been a director of the Company since 1991 and is a Vice
Chairman of the Company. Mr. Lipp has been Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer and President of TAP since January 1996. Mr. Lipp has been
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of The Travelers Insurance
Group Inc. since December 1993. From 1991 to 1993, he was Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of CCC. From April 1986 through September 1991, he was an
Executive Vice President of the Company and its corporate predecessor. Prior to
joining the Company in 1986, he was a President and a director of Chemical New
York Corporation and Chemical Bank where he held senior executive positions for
more than five years prior thereto. Mr. Lipp is a director of The New York City
Ballet, Wadsworth Atheneum and the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art and
Chairman of Dance-On Inc., a private foundation.

      Mr. Madonna joined the Company in February 1997 as Vice Chairman, and also
serves as Vice Chairman of TAP. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Madonna was
Chairman of KPMG International since October 1995. From 1990 to 1996, he was
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

      Mr. Maughan has been a director and a Vice Chairman of the Company since
December 1997. He is also Co-Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive
Officer of Salomon Smith Barney. He was, until the consummation of the Merger in
November 1997, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SBI and an Executive Vice
President of Salomon. He had served in such capacities since 1992 and 1993,
respectively. Mr. Maughan is Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
He is a member of the Trilateral Commission, a trustee of Carnegie Hall, a
director of the New York City Investment Fund and a member of the Stanford
University Graduate School of Business Advisory Council.

      Mr. Plumeri has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PFS since
April 1996 and has been a Vice Chairman of the Company since July 1994. He
joined the Company in August 1993, serving as President of Smith Barney from
that time through July 1994. Mr. Plumeri had worked for Shearson Lehman Brothers
Inc. or its predecessors for over 25 years, in various positions of increasing
responsibility, until Smith Barney acquired certain businesses from Shearson
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("SLB"). At that time, Mr. Plumeri was a Managing
Partner of SLB, and from 1990 until September 1992 he served as President of
SLB's Private Client Group.

      Mr. Willumstad has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CCC since
June 1993 and has been with that company since 1987. In February 1998, he also
became a Vice Chairman of the Company. From 1989 until June 1993, he served as
President of the Consumer Finance Services unit of the Company. Mr. Willumstad
is a member of the U.S. Region Board of Directors of MasterCard International.




      Mr. Ettinger has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since
January 1996. Prior to joining CCC as Senior Vice President in October 1987, he
was Partner in charge of the Tax Department of Arthur Young and Company's New
York office.

      Mr. Prince has been General Counsel of the Company or its predecessor
since 1983, and served as a Senior Vice President from 1986 until January 1996,
when he became an Executive Vice President.

      Mr. Black has been Vice Chairman and a director of Salomon Smith Barney
since November 1997 and Vice Chairman of Smith Barney since July 1993. He was
Vice Chairman of SB Holdings from November 1993 until November 1997 and was
Chief Operating Officer of SB Holdings from January 1996 until November 1997.
Mr. Black has served as the head of Smith Barney's Capital Markets Division from
1991 to January 1996, and has served in several positions at Smith Barney since
1974.

      Mr. Clarke has been a Vice Chairman of TAP since January 1998. He has been
Chairman of Commercial Lines since 1990, and served as Chief Executive Officer
of TAP's Commercial Lines from January 1996 through January 1998. Prior thereto,
Mr. Clarke was Senior Vice President of the National Accounts and the
Reinsurance business units of Travelers P&C. Mr. Clarke has served in various
positions at Travelers P&C since 1958.

      Mr. Cooper has been Chief Actuary of the Company since March 1995 and has
been Vice Chairman of Travelers Insurance Holdings Inc. since October 1990. He
also serves as Chairman of the Board of both AHL and Resource Deployment, Inc.,
subsidiaries of the Company.

      Mr. Dawkins has been Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Travelers Group Diversified Distribution Services, Inc. since August 1996. In
addition, he has been a director of Travelers Group Exchange, Inc. since
September 1996 and became its Chief Executive Officer in January 1997. Mr.
Dawkins joined the Company in 1991 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Primerica Financial Services, Inc., and served in that capacity until August
1996.

      Mr. Fishman was named Chief Executive Officer of TAP's Commercial Lines in
January 1998, and has been President of TAP's Commercial Lines since October
1996. From October 1996 through January 1998, he also served as Chief Operating
Officer of TAP's Commercial Lines. Mr. Fishman has been a Vice Chairman of TAP
since January 1996, and from January 1996 through January 1998 he was TAP's
Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Fishman has also served as Vice Chairman of
The Travelers Insurance Group Inc. since September 1995, and has been Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of that company since
December 1993 and June 1996, respectively. Mr. Fishman has also served as Senior
Vice President of the Company since October 1991, and served as Treasurer of the
Company from 1991 to December 1993. From 1989 to 1991, he held various other
positions with the Company and its subsidiaries.




      Ms. Magner has been President of CCC since June 1993 and became its Chief
Operating Officer in December 1995. Ms. Magner joined CCC in May 1987, and
served as Chief Administrative Officer from 1993 to 1996. From 1991 to 1993, she
was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Operations of CCC.

      Ms. Miller has been Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of
the Company since June 1995. Ms. Miller joined the Company in February 1992 as a
Vice President. Prior thereto, she was a Managing Director in the Emerging
Markets Division of Chemical Bank, a position she held from 1987 to 1992.

      Marc P. Weill has been a Senior Vice President and Chief Investment
Officer of the Company since January 1992. He also serves as a director and
Chairman of the Board of Travelers Asset Management International Corporation, a
registered investment advisor. Mr. Weill has held various other positions with
the Company and its subsidiaries since January 1991. He is the son of Sanford I.
Weill.

Item 2. PROPERTIES.

      The Company's executive offices are located in New York City. Offices and
other properties used by the Company's subsidiaries are located throughout the
United States. Several subsidiaries have offices located in foreign countries.
Most office locations and other properties are leased on terms and for durations
which are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where such
offices and other properties are located.

      As of December 31, 1997, leasehold interests of the Company's
property-casualty insurance subsidiaries included a total of approximately
5,890,000 square feet of office space at about 248 locations throughout the
United States. In addition, TIC owns buildings containing approximately
1,500,000 square feet of office space located in Hartford, Connecticut and
vicinity, serving as the home office for TIC and TAP, and TAP leases
approximately 1,030,000 square feet of such office space under a ten-year lease
that expires on April 1, 2006. TAP also rents from Aetna approximately 373,000
square feet of office space at CityPlace, located in Hartford, Connecticut,
under an eight-year sublease that expires in 2004. The Company's life insurance
units also lease approximately 656,000 square feet of office space at about 16
locations throughout the United States, under various leases. TIC and/or TIGI
lease two other buildings in Hartford, Connecticut with an aggregate of
approximately 707,500 square feet, most of which is subleased to third parties.
TIC also owns a building in Norcross, Georgia that is occupied by its
information systems department.

      Salomon Smith Barney owns two office buildings in New York City, which
total approximately 627,000 square feet. Salomon Smith Barney also owns an
office building in Rutherford, New Jersey, totaling approximately 249,000 square
feet and an office building in Tampa, Florida, totaling approximately 135,000
square feet. In addition, Salomon Smith Barney owns an office building in
London, England, that contains approximately 212,760 net square feet. The
building is subject to a mortgage that becomes due in 2007, but which may be
prepaid without




premium at any time with notice. Most of Salomon Smith Barney's other offices
are located in leased premises, the leases for which expire at various times.

      Salomon Smith Barney leases two buildings located at 388 and 390 Greenwich
Street in New York City and totaling approximately 2,300,000 square feet,
through 1999. Salomon Smith Barney expects to extend the lease term to 2003.
Salomon Smith Barney has a purchase option with respect to these properties.
Salomon Smith Barney also leases approximately 1,018,000 square feet of office
space at Seven World Trade Center in New York City, through 2010.

      A few other offices and certain warehouse space are owned, none of which
is material to the Company's financial condition or operations. The Company owns
26 acres of land in North Castle, New York, on which it has constructed an
executive conference and planning center.

      The Company believes its properties are adequate and suitable for its
business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. For further
information concerning leases, see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

      This section describes the major pending legal proceedings, other than
ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or
its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of their property is subject.
Certain additional matters may be described in the periodic reports filed under
the Exchange Act by certain subsidiaries of the Company. As a result of the
Company's acquisition of Salomon in November 1997, certain matters previously
reported by Salomon are described herein and certain other pending matters
previously reported by the Company are no longer required to be disclosed
herein.

      Pursuant to Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act, certain matters described
under the caption "Legal Proceedings" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of SSBH
for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-4346) (the "SSBH Form 10-K")
and in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of TAP for the year ended December 31,
1997 (File No. 1-14328) (the "TAP Form 10-K") are incorporated by reference
herein. Specifically, the descriptions that appear in the fifth through sixth
and the eighth through sixteenth paragraphs under the caption "Legal
Proceedings" beginning on page 13 of the SSBH Form 10-K and the descriptions
that appear in the second through sixth paragraphs under the caption "Legal
Proceedings" beginning on page 53 of the TAP Form 10-K are incorporated by
reference herein. Copies of the foregoing descriptions are included as exhibits
to this Form 10-K.

      Subsidiaries of the Company have also been named as defendants in
various matters incident to and typical of the businesses in which they are
engaged. These include numerous civil actions, arbitration proceedings and other
matters in which the Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries have been named,
arising in the normal course of business out of activities as a broker and
dealer in securities, as an underwriter of securities, as an investment banker
or otherwise. These also include numerous matters in which the Company's
insurance subsidiaries are named, arising in the normal




course of their business. In the opinion of the Company's management, none of
these actions is expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries.

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

      Not applicable.

                                     PART II
                                     -------

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

      The Company's common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific Exchange
under the symbol "TRV." The high and low sale prices, as reported on the
consolidated transaction reporting system, for the common stock of the Company
for the periods indicated, and the dividends per share, are set forth below.

      In October 1997, the Company's Board of Directors declared a three-for-two
split in the Company's common stock, paid in the form of a 50% stock dividend in
November 1997. All amounts have been adjusted to give retroactive effect to the
stock split effected in 1997.



- ----------
* Through March 4, 1998.

      At March 4, 1998, the Company had approximately 55,600 common stockholders
of record. This figure does not represent the actual number of beneficial owners
of common stock because shares are frequently held in "street name" by
securities dealers and others for the benefit of individual owners who may vote
the shares.




      For information on dividend restrictions in certain long-term loan and
credit agreements of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as restrictions
on the ability of certain of the Company's subsidiaries to transfer funds to the
Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

      See "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page 32 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders (the "1997 Annual Report"),
included as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.

      See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" beginning on page 33 of the 1997 Annual Report, included
as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

      See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" beginning on page 33 of the 1997 Annual Report, included
as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

      See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1
hereof. There is also incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item
the material under the caption "Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)"
on page 91 of the 1997 Annual Report, which material is included as part of
Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, and the Independent Auditors' Report filed as
Exhibit 99.02 herewith.

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

      None.




                                    PART III
                                    --------

Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

      For information on the directors of the Company, see the material under
the caption "Election of Directors," in the definitive Proxy Statement for the
Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 22, 1998, filed
with the SEC (the "Proxy Statement"), incorporated herein by reference. For
information on executive officers, see Item 1, "Business -- Other Information --
Executive Officers of the Company" herein.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

      See the material under the caption "Executive Compensation" of the Proxy
Statement, incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

      See the material under the captions "Voting Rights," "Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" of the
Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

      See the material under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Executive
Compensation" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV
                                     -------

Item 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

            (a)   Documents filed as a part of the report:

                  (1)   Financial Statements. See Index to Consolidated
                        Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 hereof.

                  (2)   Financial Statement Schedules. See Index to Consolidated
                        Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 hereof.

                  (3)   Exhibits:

                        See Exhibit Index.




            (b)   Reports on Form 8-K:

                  On October 7, 1997, the Company filed a Current Report on Form
                  8-K, dated October 3, 1997, filing certain exhibits under Item
                  7 thereof relating to the offer and sale of the Company's
                  5.864% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, $1.00 par value
                  per share.

                  On October 20, 1997, the Company filed a Current Report on
                  Form 8-K, dated October 13, 1997, reporting under Item 5
                  thereof the results of its operations for the three and nine
                  months ended September 30, 1997, and certain other selected
                  financial data.

                  On October 28, 1997, the Company filed a Current Report on
                  Form 8-K/A (which amended the Form 8-K filed on September 25,
                  1997), filing under Item 7 thereof certain pro forma financial
                  information.

                  On November 28, 1997, the Company filed a Current Report on
                  Form 8-K, dated November 28, 1997, reporting under Item 2
                  thereof the consummation of the transaction with Salomon Inc,
                  reporting under Item 5 thereof certain material pending legal
                  proceedings and filing under Item 7 thereof certain financial
                  statements and exhibits.

                  No other reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth
                  quarter of 1997; however, on January 8, 1998, the Company
                  filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 6, 1998,
                  filing certain exhibits under Item 7 thereof relating to the
                  offer and sale of the Company's 6 5/8% Notes due January 15,
                  2028; on January 28, 1998, the Company filed a Current Report
                  on Form 8-K, dated January 26, 1998, reporting under Item 5
                  thereof the results of its operations for the quarter and year
                  ended December 31, 1997, and certain other selected financial
                  data; and on February 19, 1998, the Company filed a Current
                  Report on Form 8-K, dated February 17, 1998, filing certain
                  exhibits under Item 7 thereof relating to the offer and sale
                  of the Company's 6 7/8% Notes due February 15, 2098.




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

3.01              Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Travelers Group Inc.
                  (the "Company"), Certificate of Amendment to the Restated
                  Certificate of Incorporation, filed April 26, 1995,
                  Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
                  Incorporation, filed, April 24, 1996, Certificate of Amendment
                  to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed April 23,
                  1997, Certificate of Designation of 6.365% Cumulative
                  Preferred Stock, Series F, Certificate of Designation of
                  6.213% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, Certificate of
                  Designation of 6.231% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,
                  Certificate of Designation of Series I Cumulative Convertible
                  Preferred Stock, Certificate of Designation of 8.08%
                  Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, Certificate of
                  Designation of 8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,
                  Certificate of Designation of 9.50% Cumulative Preferred
                  Stock, Series L, Certificate of Designation of 5.864%
                  Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, and Certificate of
                  Designation of Cumulative Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
                  Series Y, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.01 to the
                  Form 8-A/A of Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc. and SI
                  Financing Trust I (File No. 1-04346).

3.02              By-Laws of the Company, as amended through April 23, 1997,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.02 to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                  March 31, 1997 (File No. 1-9924).

10.01*            Employment Protection Agreement, dated as of December 31,
                  1987, between the Company (as successor to Commercial Credit
                  Company ("CCC")) and Sanford I. Weill, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.03 to CCC's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-6594).

10.02.1*          Travelers Group Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated as
                  of April 24, 1996), incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10.02.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the
                  "Company's 1996 10-K").

10.02.2*          Amendment No. 14 to the Travelers Group Stock Option Plan,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                  September 30, 1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's September
                  30, 1996 10-Q").

10.02.3*          Amendment No. 15 to the Travelers Group Stock Option Plan
                  (effective July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.04 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997 (File No.
                  1-9924) (the "Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q").




Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

10.03*            Travelers Group 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended through
                  July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to
                  the Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q.

10.04*            Travelers Group Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan (as
                  amended and restated as of January 1, 1994), incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's 1996 10-K.

10.05*            Letter Agreement, dated December 14, 1988, between Joseph A.
                  Califano, Jr. and the Company, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.21.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988 (File No. 1-9924).

10.06*            Travelers Group Inc. Amended and Restated Compensation Plan
                  for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.02 to the Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.
                  
10.07.1*          Supplemental Retirement Plan of the Company, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990 (File
                  No. 1-9924).

10.07.2*          Amendment to the Company's Supplemental Retirement Plan,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.06.2 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                  31, 1993 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1993 10-K").

10.08*            The Travelers Inc. Executive Performance Compensation Plan
                  (effective April 27, 1994), incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.07 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-9924).

10.09*            Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan (as amended through
                  July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02 to
                  the Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q.

10.10*            Agreement, dated December 21, 1993, between the Company and
                  Edward H. Budd, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to
                  the Company's 1993 10-K.

10.11*            The Travelers Inc. Deferred Compensation and Partnership
                  Participation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31
                  to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A-1 for the fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-9924).




Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

10.12*            The Travelers Corporation 1984 Management Incentive Plan (as
                  amended effective January 1, 1991), incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of The
                  Travelers Corporation ("old Travelers") for the fiscal year
                  ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-5799).

10.13*            The Travelers Corporation Supplemental Benefit Plan (effective
                  December 20, 1992), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
                  to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old Travelers for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-5799).

10.14*+           The Travelers Insurance Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly
                  The Travelers Corporation TESIP Restoration and Non-Qualified
                  Savings Plan) (as amended and restated through January 1, 
                  1997).

10.15*            The Travelers Corporation Directors' Deferred Compensation
                  Plan (as amended November 7, 1986), incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old
                  Travelers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1986 (File
                  No. 1-5799).

10.16*            Travelers Property Casualty Corp. Capital Accumulation Plan
                  (as amended through July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10.01 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
                  Travelers Property Casualty Corp. for the fiscal quarter ended
                  September 30, 1997 (File No. 1-14328).

10.17*            Letter Agreement, dated as of August 14, 1997, between the
                  Company and Thomas W. Jones, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q.

10.18             Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 24, 1997,
                  among the Company, Diamonds Acquisition Corp. and Salomon Inc,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.01 to the Company's
                  Current Report on Form 8-K/A-1, dated September 24, 1997 (File
                  No. 1-9924).

10.19*+           Salomon Inc Equity Partnership Plan for Key Employees (as
                  amended through March 19, 1997).

12.01+            Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.01+            Pages 32 through 92 of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders
                  of the Company (pagination of exhibit does not correspond to
                  pagination in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders).

21.01+            Subsidiaries of the Company.

23.01+            Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Certified Public
                  Accountants.




Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

23.02+            Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP, Independent Certified Public
                  Accountants.

24.01+            Powers of Attorney.

27.01+            Financial Data Schedule.

27.02+            Restated Financial Data Schedule - 1996.

27.03+            Restated Financial Data Schedule - 1995.

99.01+            Glossary of Insurance Terms.

99.02+            Independent Auditors' Report.

99.03+            The fifth through sixth and the eighth through sixteenth 
                  paragraphs under the caption "Legal Proceedings" beginning on
                  page 13 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Salomon Smith
                  Barney Holdings Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                  1997 (File No. 1-4346).

99.04+            The second through sixth paragraphs under the caption "Legal
                  Proceedings" beginning on page 53 of the Annual Report on
                  From 10-K of Travelers Property Casualty Corp. for the fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-14328).

      The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any instrument
      defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company does not
      exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its consolidated
      subsidiaries. The Company will furnish copies of any such instrument to
      the SEC upon request.

      The financial statements required by Form 11-K for 1997 for the Company's
      employee savings plan will be filed as an exhibit by amendment to this
      Form 10-K pursuant to Rule 15d-21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
      as amended.

      Copies of any of the exhibits referred to above will be furnished at a
      cost of $.25 per page (although no charge will be made for the 1997 Annual
      Report on Form 10-K) to security holders who make written request therefor
      to Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Department, Travelers
      Group Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013.

- ----------
*   Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required 
    to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K. 
+   Filed herewith.




                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 24th day of
March, 1998.

                                      TRAVELERS GROUP INC.
                                      (Registrant)

                                      By: /s/ Sanford I. Weill
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of
                                          the Board and Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 24th day of March, 1998.

      Signature              Title
      ---------              -----


/s/ Sanford I. Weill
- ------------------------     Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
  Sanford I. Weill              (Principal Executive Officer) and Director


 /s/ Heidi G. Miller
- ------------------------     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
   Heidi G. Miller              Officer (Principal Financial Officer)


  /s/ Irwin Ettinger
- ------------------------     Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting 
   Irwin Ettinger               Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)


          *
- ------------------------
    Judith Arron             Director


- ------------------------
C. Michael Armstrong         Director




      Signature              Title
      ---------              -----


            *
- ------------------------
   Kenneth J. Bialkin        Director


            *
- ------------------------
     Edward H. Budd          Director


            *
- ------------------------
 Joseph A. Califano, Jr.     Director


            *
- ------------------------
   Douglas D. Danforth       Director


     /s/ James Dimon
- ------------------------
       James Dimon           Director


            *
- ------------------------
   Leslie B. Disharoon       Director


            *
- ------------------------
     Gerald R. Ford          Director


            *
- ------------------------
     Thomas W. Jones         Director


            *
- ------------------------
    Ann Dibble Jordan        Director




      Signature              Title
      ---------              -----


            *
- ------------------------
     Robert I. Lipp          Director


            *
- ------------------------
    Michael T. Masin         Director


            *
- ------------------------
    Deryck C. Maughan        Director


- ------------------------
     Dudley C. Mecum         Director


            *
- ------------------------
   Andrall E. Pearson        Director


            *
- ------------------------
     Frank J. Tasco          Director


            *
- ------------------------
    Linda J. Wachner         Director


            *
- ------------------------
  Joseph R. Wright, Jr.      Director




      Signature              Title
      ---------              -----


            *
- ------------------------
      Arthur Zankel          Director


     /s/ James Dimon
*By: 
     ------------------------
     James Dimon
     Attorney-in-fact




                              Travelers Group Inc.

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES*

                        ---------------------------------

                                                                Incorporated
                                                              By Reference from
                                                             the Company's 1997
                                                              Annual Report to
                                                   Page        Stockholders at
                                                  Herein       Page Indicated
                                                  ------       --------------

Independent Auditors' Report                       F-2                  92

      Consolidated Statement of Income
      for the year ended December 31,
      1997, 1996 and 1995                                               58

      Consolidated Statement of
      Financial Position at December 31,
      1997 and 1996                                                     59

      Consolidated Statement of Changes
      in Stockholders' Equity for the
      year ended December 31, 1997, 1996
      and 1995                                                          60

      Consolidated Statement of Cash
      Flows for the year ended December
      31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                           61

      Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements                                                      62-91

Schedules:

      Schedule I - Condensed Financial
      Information of Registrant (Parent
      Company only)                                                 F-3 - F-6

      Schedule III - Supplementary
      Insurance Information                                             F-7

      Schedule IV - Reinsurance                                         F-8

* Schedules not listed are omitted as not applicable or not 
  required by Regulation S-X.


                                      F-1


                     [Letterhead of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP]

                          Independent Auditors' Report
                          ----------------------------


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Travelers Group Inc.:

Under date of January 26, 1998, we reported on the consolidated statement of
financial position of Travelers Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1997, as contained in the 1997 annual report to
stockholders. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1997. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned
consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related financial
statement schedules as listed in the accompanying index. These financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statement schedules
based on our audits. We did not audit the separate consolidated statement of
financial condition of Salomon Inc and subsidiaries or the parent company only
condensed statement of financial condition of Salomon Inc as of December 31,
1996, or the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders'
equity and cash flows or the parent company only condensed statements of income
and cash flows for each of the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, which
parent company only condensed financial statements reflect total assets of
$19,964 million and total liabilities of $14,687 million as of December 31,
1996, and net income of $617 million and $457 million for the years ended
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Those consolidated financial
statements and parent company only condensed financial statements, which are
included in the restated and combined December 31, 1996 and 1995 consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules (parent company only) of
Travelers Group Inc. that resulted from the November 28, 1997 pooling of
interests transaction described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements, were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to
us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Salomon
Inc and subsidiaries and Salomon Inc (parent company only) for such periods, is
based solely on the report of such other auditors.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, such
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.


/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


New York, New York
January 26, 1998


                                       F-2


                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                              Travelers Group Inc.
                              (Parent Company Only)
                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                            (In millions of dollars)

                          Condensed Statement of Income

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                --------------------------------
                                                  1997        1996        1995
                                                -------     -------     -------

Revenues                                        $     1     $     1     $    (5)
                                                -------     -------     -------

Expenses:
  Interest                                          171         162         129
  Other                                             143         126         104
                                                -------     -------     -------
    Total                                           314         288         233
                                                -------     -------     -------

Pre-tax loss                                       (313)       (287)       (238)
Income tax benefit                                  112         103          85
                                                -------     -------     -------
Loss before equity in net income
  of subsidiaries                                  (201)       (184)       (153)
Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  from continuing operations                      3,305       3,466       2,294
Equity in net income of subsidiaries
  from discontinued operations                       --        (334)        150
                                                -------     -------     -------
Net income                                      $ 3,104     $ 2,948     $ 2,291
                                                =======     =======     =======

The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the accompanying notes
to the condensed financial information of Registrant.


                                      F-3


                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                              Travelers Group Inc.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                            (In millions of dollars)

                    Condensed Statement of Financial Position



The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the accompanying notes
to the condensed financial information of Registrant.


                                      F-4


                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                              Travelers Group Inc.
                              (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                            (In millions of dollars)

                        Condensed Statement of Cash Flows



The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the accompanying notes
to the condensed financial information of Registrant.


                                      F-5


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

              Notes to Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant

1.    Basis of Presentation

      The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Travelers
      Group Inc. (the Parent) and on an equity basis its subsidiaries and
      affiliates and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
      Financial Statements and notes thereto.

2.    Supplementary Disclosure of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities

      During 1994, the Parent issued $261 million of redeemable preferred stock
      to various subsidiaries in exchange for an equivalent value of Travelers
      Group Inc. common stock previously held by these subsidiaries. This
      activity was recorded as a non-cash capital contribution to subsidiaries
      by the Parent. During 1995, $35 million of this redeemable preferred stock
      was repurchased and retired.


                                      F-6


                                                                    SCHEDULE III

                      TRAVELERS GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Supplementary Insurance Information
                            (In millions of dollars)



* Includes credit life insurance operations.


                                      F-7


                                                                     SCHEDULE IV

                      Travelers Group Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                   Reinsurance
                            (In millions of dollars)




                                      F-8


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

3.01              Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Travelers Group Inc.
                  (the "Company"), Certificate of Amendment to the Restated
                  Certificate of Incorporation, filed April 26, 1995,
                  Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
                  Incorporation, filed, April 24, 1996, Certificate of Amendment
                  to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed April 23,
                  1997, Certificate of Designation of 6.365% Cumulative
                  Preferred Stock, Series F, Certificate of Designation of
                  6.213% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, Certificate of
                  Designation of 6.231% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,
                  Certificate of Designation of Series I Cumulative Convertible
                  Preferred Stock, Certificate of Designation of 8.08%
                  Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, Certificate of
                  Designation of 8.40% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,
                  Certificate of Designation of 9.50% Cumulative Preferred
                  Stock, Series L, Certificate of Designation of 5.864%
                  Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, and Certificate of
                  Designation of Cumulative Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock,
                  Series Y, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.01 to the
                  Form 8-A/A of Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc. and SI
                  Financing Trust I (File No. 1-04346).

3.02              By-Laws of the Company, as amended through April 23, 1997,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.02 to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                  March 31, 1997 (File No. 1-9924).

10.01*            Employment Protection Agreement, dated as of December 31,
                  1987, between the Company (as successor to Commercial Credit
                  Company ("CCC")) and Sanford I. Weill, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.03 to CCC's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-6594).

10.02.1*          Travelers Group Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated as
                  of April 24, 1996), incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10.02.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the
                  "Company's 1996 10-K").

10.02.2*          Amendment No. 14 to the Travelers Group Stock Option Plan,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                  September 30, 1996 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's September
                  30, 1996 10-Q").

10.02.3*          Amendment No. 15 to the Travelers Group Stock Option Plan
                  (effective July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.04 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997 (File No.
                  1-9924) (the "Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q").


Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

10.03*            Travelers Group 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended through
                  July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to
                  the Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q.

10.04*            Travelers Group Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan (as
                  amended and restated as of January 1, 1994), incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's 1996 10-K.

10.05*            Letter Agreement, dated December 14, 1988, between Joseph A.
                  Califano, Jr. and the Company, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.21.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988 (File No. 1-9924).

10.06*            Travelers Group Inc. Amended and Restated Compensation Plan
                  for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.02 to the Company's September 30, 1996 10-Q.
                  
10.07.1*          Supplemental Retirement Plan of the Company, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990 (File
                  No. 1-9924).

10.07.2*          Amendment to the Company's Supplemental Retirement Plan,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.06.2 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                  31, 1993 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1993 10-K").

10.08*            The Travelers Inc. Executive Performance Compensation Plan
                  (effective April 27, 1994), incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.07 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-9924).

10.09*            Travelers Group Capital Accumulation Plan (as amended through
                  July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02 to
                  the Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q.

10.10*            Agreement, dated December 21, 1993, between the Company and
                  Edward H. Budd, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to
                  the Company's 1993 10-K.

10.11*            The Travelers Inc. Deferred Compensation and Partnership
                  Participation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31
                  to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A-1 for the fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-9924).


Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

10.12*            The Travelers Corporation 1984 Management Incentive Plan (as
                  amended effective January 1, 1991), incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of The
                  Travelers Corporation ("old Travelers") for the fiscal year
                  ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-5799).

10.13*            The Travelers Corporation Supplemental Benefit Plan (effective
                  December 20, 1992), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
                  to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old Travelers for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-5799).

10.14*+           The Travelers Insurance Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly
                  The Travelers Corporation TESIP Restoration and Non-Qualified
                  Savings Plan) (as amended and restated through January 1, 
                  1997).

10.15*            The Travelers Corporation Directors' Deferred Compensation
                  Plan (as amended November 7, 1986), incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old
                  Travelers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1986 (File
                  No. 1-5799).

10.16*            Travelers Property Casualty Corp. Capital Accumulation Plan
                  (as amended through July 23, 1997), incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10.01 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
                  Travelers Property Casualty Corp. for the fiscal quarter ended
                  September 30, 1997 (File No. 1-14328).

10.17*            Letter Agreement, dated as of August 14, 1997, between the
                  Company and Thomas W. Jones, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's September 30, 1997 10-Q.

10.18             Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 24, 1997,
                  among the Company, Diamonds Acquisition Corp. and Salomon Inc,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.01 to the Company's
                  Current Report on Form 8-K/A-1, dated September 24, 1997 (File
                  No. 1-9924).

10.19*+           Salomon Inc Equity Partnership Plan for Key Employees (as
                  amended through March 19, 1997).

12.01+            Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.01+            Pages 32 through 92 of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders
                  of the Company (pagination of exhibit does not correspond to
                  pagination in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders).

21.01+            Subsidiaries of the Company.

23.01+            Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Certified Public
                  Accountants.


Exhibit
Number            Description of Exhibit
- ------            ----------------------

23.02+            Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP, Independent Certified Public
                  Accountants.

24.01+            Powers of Attorney.

27.01+            Financial Data Schedule.

27.02+            Restated Financial Data Schedule - 1996.

27.03+            Restated Financial Data Schedule - 1995.

99.01+            Glossary of Insurance Terms.

99.02+            Independent Auditors' Report.

99.03+            The fifth through sixth and the eighth through sixteenth 
                  paragraphs under the caption "Legal Proceedings" beginning on
                  page 13 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Salomon Smith
                  Barney Holdings Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                  1997 (File No. 1-4346).

99.04+            The second through sixth paragraphs under the caption "Legal
                  Proceedings" beginning on page 53 of the Annual Report on
                  From 10-K of Travelers Property Casualty Corp. for the fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-14328).

      The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any instrument
      defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company does not
      exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its consolidated
      subsidiaries. The Company will furnish copies of any such instrument to
      the SEC upon request.

      The financial statements required by Form 11-K for 1997 for the Company's
      employee savings plan will be filed as an exhibit by amendment to this
      Form 10-K pursuant to Rule 15d-21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
      as amended.

      Copies of any of the exhibits referred to above will be furnished at a
      cost of $.25 per page (although no charge will be made for the 1997 Annual
      Report on Form 10-K) to security holders who make written request therefor
      to Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Department, Travelers
      Group Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013.

- ----------
      * Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
        required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form
        10-K. 
      + Filed herewith.


