
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K (DATED DECEMBER 31, 2000)




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, DC  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                  OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 0-14948

                                 FISERV, INC.
                                 ------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


               WISCONSIN                                39-1506125
               ---------                                ----------
   (State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

255 FISERV DRIVE, BROOKFIELD, WISCONSIN               53045
- ---------------------------------------               -----
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (262) 879-5000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                     NONE
                                     ----
                               (Title of Class)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                         Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value
                         -----------------------------
                               (Title of Class)

                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                        -------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No ( )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held
by non-affiliates of the registrant as of January 31, 2001: $6,427,897,972

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of
common stock, as of January 31, 2001: 124,060,757

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
2000 Annual Report to Shareholders - Parts II, IV
Proxy Statement for March 29, 2001, Annual Meeting of Shareholders - Part III



                         FISERV, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                   FORM 10-K
                               December 31, 2000



================================================================================

                                    PART  I

================================================================================

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are "forward-
looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability
established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the
context of the statement will include words such as "believes," "anticipates" or
"expects," or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe
future plans, objectives or goals of Fiserv, Inc. ("Fiserv" or the "Company")
are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject
to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those currently anticipated. Factors that could affect results
include, among others, economic, competitive, governmental and technological
factors affecting the Company's operations, markets, services and related
products, prices and other factors discussed in the Company's prior filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Shareholders, potential investors and
other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the
forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such
forward-looking statements.

Item 1.  Business

     Fiserv is a leading technology resource for information management systems
used by the financial industry. The Company was formed on July 31, 1984, through
the combination of two major regional data processing firms located in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and Tampa, Florida. These firms--First Data Processing of
Milwaukee and Sunshine State Systems of Tampa--began their operations in 1964
and 1971, respectively, as the data processing operations of their parent
financial institutions. Historically, operations were expanded by developing a
range of services for these parent organizations as well as other financial
institutions. Since its organization in 1984, Fiserv has grown through the
continuing development of highly specialized services and product enhancements,
the addition of new clients and the acquisition of firms complementing the
Fiserv organization.

     Headquartered in Brookfield, Wisconsin, Fiserv provides information
management technology and related services to banks, broker-dealers, credit
unions, financial planners and investment advisers, insurance companies, leasing
companies, mortgage lenders and savings institutions. The Company operates
centers nationwide for full-service financial data processing, software system
development, item processing and check imaging, technology support and related
product businesses. In addition, the Company has business support centers in
Australia, Colombia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Poland, Singapore and the
United Kingdom.

Business Strategy
- -----------------

     The market for products and services offered by financial institutions
continues to undergo change. New alternative lending and investment products are
being introduced and implemented by the financial industry with great frequency;
the distinctions among financial services traditionally offered by banking and
thrift organizations as well as by securities and insurance firms continue to
narrow; and financial institutions diversify and consolidate on an ongoing basis
in response to market pressures, as well as under the auspices of regulatory
agencies.

     Although such market changes have led to consolidations that have reduced
the number of financial institutions in the United States, such consolidations
have not resulted in a material reduction of the number of customers or
financial accounts serviced by the financial industry as a whole. New
organizations entering the once limited financial services industry have opened
new markets for Fiserv services.



     To stay competitive in this changing marketplace, financial institutions
are finding they must aggressively meet the growing needs of their customers for
a broad variety of new products and services that are typically transaction-
oriented and fee-based. The growing volume and types of transactions and
accounts have increased the data processing requirements of these institutions.
As a consequence, Fiserv management believes that the financial services
industry is one of the largest users of data processing products and services.

     Moreover, Fiserv expects that the industry will continue to require
significant commitments of capital and human resources to the information
systems requirements, to require application of more specialized systems and to
require development, maintenance and enhancement of applications software.
Fiserv believes that economies of scale in data processing operations are
essential to justify the required level of expenditures and commitment of human
resources.

     In response to these market dynamics, the means by which financial
institutions obtain data processing services have changed. Many smaller, local
and regional third-party data processors are leaving the business or
consolidating with larger providers. A number of large financial institutions
previously providing third-party processing services for other institutions have
withdrawn from the business to concentrate on their primary, core businesses.
Similarly, an increasing number of financial institutions that previously
developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing
operations have outsourced their data processing requirements by licensing their
software from a third party or by contracting with third-party processors to
reduce costs and enhance their products and services. Outsourcing can involve
simply the licensing of software, thereby eliminating the costly technical
expertise within the financial institution, or the utilization of service
bureaus, facilities management or resource management capabilities. Fiserv
provides all of these options to the financial industry.

     To capitalize on these industry trends and to become the premier provider
of data processing products and related services, Fiserv has implemented a
strategy of continuing to develop new products, improving the cost effectiveness
of services provided to clients, aggressively soliciting new clients, and making
both opportunistic and strategic acquisitions.











Information Technology Services
- -------------------------------

      Fiserv is a technology company focused on helping financial services
providers meet the challenges and opportunities of today's dynamic financial
marketplace. The Company's core business is serving the needs of banking,
lending, insurance, financial planners and securities providers. With its wide
array of industry-specific products, Fiserv clients can satisfy their customers'
growing desire for anywhere, anytime financial services. The Company's
operations have been classified into three business segments: Financial
institution outsourcing, systems and services; Securities processing and trust
services; and All other and corporate. The Financial institution outsourcing,
systems and services



business segment provides account and transaction processing solutions and
services to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries. The
Securities processing and trust services business segment provides securities
processing solutions and retirement plan administration services to brokerage
firms, financial planners and financial institutions. The All other and
corporate business segment provides plastic card services and document
solutions, and includes general corporate expenses. The following discussion
covers the two major operating segments:

     Financial Institution Outsourcing, Systems and Services. Account processing
     --------------------------------------------------------
is a core requirement of every financial institution. It's also vital to the
operations of brokerage firms and insurance companies. No matter how the
industry may consolidate and evolve, Fiserv expects that there will always
remain the need for account processing. That's where Fiserv is positioned--as a
leader in financial information management.

     Fiserv provides comprehensive solutions designed to meet the information
processing requirements of financial institutions, including account and
transaction processing services, item processing, loan servicing and lending
systems. The Company offers its clients service bureau and in-house processing
systems, e-commerce solutions and complementary products. In essence, Fiserv
provides all the technology a bank, credit union, mortgage lender, savings or
financing institution needs to run its operations--from deposit accounts to
loans to general ledger to check processing.

     Fiserv products, services and software solutions are available through
multiple delivery channels to financial institutions in the United States, and
many of its systems have applications designed for the unique requirements of
financial institutions operating outside of North America. Fiserv international
teams develop, sell, install and support core banking and delivery channel
integration solutions for a wide range of international banks and financial
services companies located in over 60 countries.

     All Fiserv core systems can be complemented with a number of other products
that allow clients to create a total servicing solution, depending on their
requirements. These complementary products and back-office solutions include
treasury and investment management, decision support and performance measurement
solutions, electronic funds transfer services, imaging systems, human resource
information systems, call center systems, loan origination and tracking, auto
leasing software, data warehousing/data mining and credit services.

     The insurance industry, like banking, has requirements for basic
administration services and information processing systems. Fiserv brings
expertise in information management technology and related administration
processing services to the insurance and banking industries. The products and
solutions offered by the Company automate the full range of insurance services
and support the growing convergence between banking and insurance.

     Fiserv insurance solutions include administration services and software for
life, annuity, health insurance, property/casualty, flood and workers
compensation; award-winning claims workstation software; comprehensive financial
accounting systems; computer-based training for insurance and securities; and
electronic sales platforms that can be delivered over the Internet.

     Securities Processing and Trust Services. The securities business is about
     -----------------------------------------
transactions and volume; advanced technology that makes executing and clearing
trades faster, easier and more economical; and service excellence and customer
satisfaction. Fiserv has accumulated the technology resources and industry
knowledge required to meet the needs of brokerage firms and financial
institutions that are expanding into this business.

     The Company provides comprehensive clearing, execution and brokerage
services. With Fiserv, brokerage firms and financial institutions gain a
technology resource with the volumes, management expertise, products and service
necessary to help satisfy customer needs.

     The administration of self-directed retirement plans is also a highly
specialized business that benefits, as do all financial services applications,
from technology. Fiserv has built a trusted reputation in this field by applying
its expertise to technology for administration of business and self-directed
retirement plans and related services.

     As a leading provider of retirement plan administration and processing
services to financial planners, Fiserv provides a full range of services
including trustee services, proprietary software for registered investment
advisors, financial seminars and related marketing materials.



     Financial information concerning the Company's industry segments is
included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K as Exhibit 13 and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Servicing the Market
- --------------------

     The market for Fiserv account and transaction processing services and
products has specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by
clients on software flexibility, product quality, reliability of service,
comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, timely introduction of new
products and features, cost effectiveness and demand for service excellence.
Through its multiple product offerings, the Company successfully services these
market needs for clients ranging in size from start-ups to some of the largest
financial services providers worldwide.

     Fiserv believes that the position it holds as an independent, growth-
oriented company dedicated to its business is an advantage to its clients. The
Company differs from many of the account and transaction processing resources
currently available since it isn't a regional or local cooperatively owned
organization, nor a data processing subsidiary, an affiliate of a financial
institution or a hardware vendor. Due to the economies of scale gained through
its broad market presence, Fiserv offers clients a selection of information
management and data processing solutions designed to meet the specific needs of
the ever-changing financial industry.

     The Company believes this independence and primary focus on the financial
industry helps its business development and related client service and product
support teams remain responsive to the technology needs of its market, now and
for the future.

     "The Client Comes First" is one of the Company's founding principles. It is
a belief backed by a dedication to providing ongoing client service and
support--no matter the client size.

     The Company believes its commitment of substantial resources to training
and technical support helps retain Fiserv clients. Fiserv conducts the majority
of its new and ongoing client training in its technology centers, where the
Company maintains fully equipped demonstration and training facilities
containing equipment used in the delivery of Fiserv services. Fiserv also
provides local and on-site training services.

     Fiserv has been an international company since 1986, when its retail
banking products were first launched throughout Europe, Asia and Latin America.
Since then, the Company has grown an impressive infrastructure for supporting
clients in international markets. Fiserv currently maintains international
support staffs in Australia, Colombia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Poland,
Singapore and the United Kingdom.

Product Development
- -------------------

     In order to meet the changing technology needs of the clients served by
Fiserv, the Company continually develops, maintains and enhances its systems.
Resources applied to product development and maintenance are believed to be
approximately 8% to 10% of Company revenues, about half of which is dedicated to
software development.

     The Fiserv network of development and financial information technology
centers applies the shared expertise of multiple Fiserv teams to design, develop
and maintain specialized processing systems around the leading technology
platforms. The applications of its account processing systems meet the
preferences and diverse requirements of the various international, national,
regional or local market-specific financial service environments of the
Company's many clients.

     Though multiple Fiserv centers share the Company's variety of nationally
developed and supported software, each center has specialized capabilities that
enable it to offer system application features and functions unique to its
client base. Where the client's requirements warrant, Fiserv purchases software
programs from third parties that are interfaced with existing Fiserv systems. In
developing its products, Fiserv stresses interaction with and responsiveness to
the needs of its clients.



     Fiserv provides a dedicated solution designed, developed, maintained and
enhanced according to each client's goals for service quality, business
development, asset/liability mix, local market positioning and other user-
defined parameters.

     Fiserv regards its software as proprietary and utilizes a combination of
trade secrecy laws, internal security practices and employee non-disclosure
agreements for protection.  The Company believes that legal protection of its
software, while important, is less significant than the knowledge and experience
of the Company's management and personnel and their ability to develop, enhance
and market new products and services.  The Company believes that it holds all
proprietary rights necessary for the conduct of its business.

Competition
- -----------

     The market for information technology products and services within the
financial industry is highly competitive.  The Company's principal competitors
include internal data processing departments, data processing affiliates of
large companies or large computer hardware manufacturers, independent computer
service firms and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives.
Certain competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing
resources than the Company.  Competition for in-house data processing and
software departments is intensified by the efforts of computer hardware vendors
who encourage the growth of internal data centers.

     Competitive factors for processing services include product quality,
reliability of service, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines,
timely introduction of new products and features, and price.  The Company
believes that it competes favorably in each of these categories.  In addition,
the Company believes that its position as an independent vendor, rather than as
a cooperative, an affiliate of a larger corporation or a hardware vendor, is a
competitive advantage.

Government Regulation
- ---------------------

     The Company's data processing subsidiaries are not themselves directly
subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial
institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. As a provider of services
to these entities, however, the data processing operations are observed from
time to time by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit
Union Association, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and various state regulatory authorities. In
addition, several of the Company's operations are reviewed annually by
independent auditors to provide internal control evaluations for its clients'
auditors and regulators.

     As trust companies under Colorado law, First Trust, Lincoln Trust and
Resources Trust are subject to the regulations of the Colorado Division of
Banking.  First Trust, Lincoln Trust and Resources Trust historically have
complied with such regulations and although no assurance can be given, the
Company believes First Trust, Lincoln Trust and Resources Trust will continue to
be able to comply with such regulations.  Commencing in 1991, First Trust
received approval of its application for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
coverage of its customer deposits.

     The Company's securities businesses, Fiserv Securities, Inc. (formerly BHC
Financial, Inc.) and affiliates and Fiserv Correspondent Services, Inc.
(formerly Hanifen, Imhoff Clearing Corporation and JWGenesis Clearing
Corporation), are subject to the broker-dealer rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the National
Association of Securities Dealers and other stock exchanges of which they are
members.

Employees
- ---------

     Fiserv employs approximately 14,000 specialists worldwide in its
information management centers and related product and service companies. This
service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science
and the financial industry, often complemented by management



and other direct experience in banks, credit unions, mortgage firms, savings and
other financial services business environments.

  Fiserv employees provide expertise in sales and marketing; account management
and client services; computer operations, network control and technical support;
programming, software development, modification and maintenance; conversions and
client training; financial planning and related support services.

  In supporting international markets, Fiserv works closely with its clients to
help ensure their continued success.  Fiserv employees speak the same language
as their clients, they also understand the differences in the style of doing
business, as well as the financial products requirements and regulations unique
to each client and its specific market.

  Fiserv employees are not represented by a union, and there have been no work
stoppages, strikes or organizational attempts.  The service nature of the Fiserv
business makes its employees an important corporate asset, and while the market
for qualified personnel is competitive, the Company does not experience
significant difficulty with hiring or retaining its staff of top industry
professionals.  In assessing companies to acquire, the quality and stability of
the prospective company's staff are emphasized.

  Management attributes its ability to attract and keep quality employees to,
among other things, the Company's growth and dedication to state-of-the-art
software development tools and hardware technologies.

Item 2.  Properties

  Fiserv currently operates full-service data centers, software system
development centers and item processing and back-office support centers in 121
cities (113 in the United States):  Birmingham, Alabama; Little Rock, Arkansas;
Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Diamond Bar, Fresno, Lafayette, Moorpark,
Oakland, Ontario, Orange, Redwood City, Sacramento, San Diego, San Leandro, Van
Nuys and Walnut, California; Denver and Englewood, Colorado; Wallingford and
Windsor, Connecticut; Boca Raton, Heathrow, Jacksonville, Lake Mary, Lake Wales,
Maitland, Miami, Orlando, Plantation, Tampa and Titusville, Florida; Atlanta,
Duluth, Macon, Marietta and Norcross, Georgia; Honolulu, Hawaii; Cedar Rapids
and West Des Moines, Iowa; Arlington Heights, Chicago, Des Plaines, Marion and
Rock Island, Illinois; Indianapolis and South Bend, Indiana; Topeka, Kansas;
Bowling Green and Louisville, Kentucky; Baton Rouge and Kenner, Louisiana;
Gaithersburg, Maryland; Braintree, Mansfield and Somerville, Massachusetts;
Flint, Northville and Troy, Michigan; Eagan, Edina, Mendota Heights and
Shoreview, Minnesota; Kansas City, Missouri; Kalispell, Montana; Lincoln and
Omaha, Nebraska; Mahwah, New Providence and South Plainfield, New Jersey; Santa
Fe, New Mexico; Fayetteville, Melville, New Hartford and New York, New York;
Chapel Hill and Greensboro, North Carolina; Fargo, North Dakota; Cincinnati and
Cleveland, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Corvallis and Portland, Oregon; Bryn
Mawr, Erie, King of Prussia, Malvern, Norristown, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh,
Valley Forge and Williamsport, Pennsylvania; Newberry, South Carolina;
Nashville, Tennessee; Addison, Austin, Beaumont, Dallas, Denton, Houston, San
Antonio, Southlake and Stafford, Texas; Salt Lake City and Taylorsville, Utah;
Williamsburg, Virginia; Bellevue, Kent and Seattle, Washington; and Brookfield,
Milwaukee, New Berlin and Sheboygan, Wisconsin.  International business centers
are located in North Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; Bogota, Colombia;
London and Uxbridge, Middlesex, England; Jakarta, Indonesia; Manila,
Philippines; Warsaw, Poland; and Singapore, Singapore.

  The Company owns facilities in Brookfield, Corvallis, Greensboro, Kalispell,
Lincoln, Marion, Moorpark, South Bend and Valley Forge; all other buildings in
which centers are located are subject to leases expiring through 2002 and
beyond.  The Company owns or leases approximately 160 mainframe computers (Data
General, Hewlett Packard, IBM, NCR, Tandem and Unisys).  In addition, the
Company maintains its own national data communication network consisting of
communications processors and leased lines.



  Fiserv believes its facilities and equipment are generally well maintained and
are in good operating condition.  The Company believes that the computer
equipment it owns and its various facilities are adequate for its present and
foreseeable business.  Fiserv periodically upgrades its mainframe capability as
needed.  Fiserv contracts with multiple sites to provide processing backup in
the event of a disaster and maintains duplicate tapes of data collected and
software used in its business in locations away from the Company's facilities.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

  In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are named
as defendants in various lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the
Company.  In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may
ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the financial statements of the Company.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

  During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

  The executive officers and other officers of the Company as of February 27,
2001, together with their ages, positions and business experience are described
below:



  Mr. Muma has been a Director of the Company since it was established in 1984.
He has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from 1984
to 1999, when he was named President and Chief Executive Officer.

  Mr. Dillon was named Chairman of the Board of Directors in July 2000.  He
served as Vice Chairman from 1995 to 2000.  From 1976 to 1995, Mr. Dillon was
co-founder and President of Information Technology, Inc. (ITI), a software and
services organization that was acquired by the Company in 1995.  Mr. Dillon also
serves as Chairman of ITI.



  Mr. Jensen has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
Treasurer, Assistant Secretary and a Director of the Company since it was
established in 1984.  He was named Senior Executive Vice President in 1986.

  Mr. Arner has been Corporate Executive Vice President and President of the
Fiserv Insurance Solutions Group since 1998.  Mr. Arner was Chief Executive
Officer of Network Data Processing from 1994 to 1998, when it was acquired by
the Company.

  Mr. Balthasar was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv
Financial Institution Group in 2000.  He served as Corporate Executive Vice
President and President-Savings and Community Bank Group from 1996 to 1999, when
he was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv Financial
Institution Outsourcing Group.  Mr. Balthasar has been with Fiserv and its
predecessor company since 1974.

  Mr. Beriault was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv
Securities Group in 1999.  He served as Corporate Executive Vice President and
President-Securities Processing Group from 1998 to 1999.  Mr. Beriault was
President of Lincoln Trust Company from 1986 to 1995, when it was acquired by
the Company.

  Mr. Neill was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv Credit
Union and Industry Products Group in 2000.  Mr. Neill served as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Basis Information Technologies, Inc. prior to its
acquisition by Fiserv in 1993.

  Mr. Rockafellow was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv
Trust Services Group in 1999.  He has served as Corporate Executive Vice
President and President-Trust Group since 1996.  Mr. Rockafellow was the
President and CEO of First Trust Company from 1982 to 1985, when it was acquired
by the Company, and served in that capacity until 1999.

  Mr. Schmelzer was named Corporate Executive Vice President, Marketing & Sales
for the Company in 1992.  Prior to joining Fiserv, he was Director of Commercial
Analysis for IBM.

  Mr. Sprague has been Corporate Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary since 1994, and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company since
1999.  He has been involved with the Company's corporate and legal concerns
since it was formed in 1984.

================================================================================

                                    PART  II

================================================================================

  Pursuant to Instruction G(2) for Form 10-K, the information required in Items
5 through 8 are incorporated by reference from the Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders included in this Form 10-K Annual Report as Exhibit 13.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

  Not applicable.

================================================================================

                                   PART  III

================================================================================

  Pursuant to Instruction G(3) for Form 10-K, the information required in Items
10 through 13 is incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement, which is expected to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before
February 27, 2001.




================================================================================

                                    PART IV

================================================================================

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1)  Financial Statements:

         The consolidated financial statements of the Company as of December 31,
2000 and 1999 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2000, together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, dated January
26, 2001, appear on pages 23 through 44 of the Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders, Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K Annual Report, and are incorporated
herein by reference.

(a) (2)  Financial Statement Schedule:
         The following financial statement schedule of the Company and related
documents are included in this Report on Form 10-K:

                                                               Page
                                                               ----

         Independent Auditors' Report                           13
         Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts          13


         All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31,
     2000.

(c)  Exhibits:
         The exhibits listed in the accompanying exhibit index are filed as
     part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:    February 27, 2001
FISERV, INC.

By        /s/ Leslie M. Muma
          ----------------------------------------
          Leslie M. Muma
          President and Chief Executive Officer

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this Report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 27, 2001.

Signature                               Capacity

/s/ Leslie M. Muma
- ----------------------------------
Leslie M. Muma                          Director, President and Chief Executive
                                        Officer

/s/ Donald F. Dillon
- ----------------------------------
Donald F. Dillon                        Chairman of the Board,
                                        Chairman-Information Technology, Inc.
/s/ Kenneth R. Jensen
- ----------------------------------
Kenneth R. Jensen                       Director, Senior Executive Vice
                                        President, Chief Financial Officer,
                                        Treasurer


/s/ George D. Dalton
- -----------------------------------
George D. Dalton                        Director

/s/ Daniel P. Kearney
- -----------------------------------
Daniel P. Kearney                       Director

/s/ Gerald J. Levy
- -----------------------------------
Gerald J. Levy                          Director

/s/ L. William Seidman
- -----------------------------------
L. William Seidman                      Director

/s/ Thekla R. Shackelford
- -----------------------------------
Thekla R. Shackelford                   Director



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


Shareholders and Directors of Fiserv, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Fiserv, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2000, and have issued our report thereon dated
January 26, 2001; such consolidated financial statements and report are included
in your 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference.  Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement
schedule of Fiserv, Inc., listed in Item 14.  This consolidated financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion,
such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
- --------------------------------------------
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
January 26, 2001



                                  SCHEDULE II
                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


                        Allowance for Doubtful Accounts





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number                    Exhibit Description
- ------                    -------------------

3.1   Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated February 28, 2000 and
      incorporated herein by reference (File No. 0-14948)).

3.2   By-laws, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Current Report
      on Form 8-K dated March 25, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference
      (File No. 0-14948.))

4.1   Credit Agreements dated as of May 17, 1999, by and among Fiserv, Inc., the
      Lenders Party Hereto, and The Bank of New York, as Administrative Agent.
      (Not being filed herewith, but will be provided to the Commission upon its
      request, pursuant to Item 601(b) (4) (iii) (A) of Regulation S-K.)

4.2   Note Purchase Agreement dated as of March 15, 1991, as amended, among
      Fiserv, Inc., Aid Association for Lutherans, Northwestern National Life
      Insurance Company, Northern Life Insurance Company and The North Atlantic
      Life Insurance Company of America.  (Not being filed herewith, but will be
      provided to the Commission upon its request, pursuant to Item 601(b) (4)
      (iii) (A) of Regulation S-K.)

4.3   Note Purchase Agreement dated as of May 17, 1995, as amended, among
      Fiserv, Inc., Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America,
      Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, Aid Association for
      Lutherans, Northern Life Insurance Company and Northwestern National Life
      Insurance Company. (Not being filed herewith, but will be provided to the
      Commission upon its request, pursuant to Item 601(b) (4) (iii) (A) of
      Regulation S-K.)

4.4   Shareholder Rights Agreement (filed as Exhibit 4 to the Company's Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated February 24, 1998, and incorporated herein by
      reference (File No. 0-14948.))

4.5   First Amendment to the Shareholder Rights Agreement (filed as Exhibit 4.3
      to the Company's Form S-8 dated April 7, 2000, and incorporated herein by
      reference (File No. 333-34310.))

4.6   Second Amendment to the Shareholder Rights Agreement.

10.1  Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
      Company's Form S-8 Registration Statement dated April 7, 2000, and
      incorporated herein by reference (File No. 333-34310.))

10.2  Fiserv, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit A to
      the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders.)

13    2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (to the extent incorporated by
      reference herein).

21    List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23    Independent Auditors' Consent.


