
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                  of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                          Commission file no. 0-14948

                                 FISERV, INC.
                                 ------------
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                     WISCONSIN                     39-1506125
                     ---------                     ----------
            (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer
            incorporation or organization)      Identification No.)

       255 FISERV DRIVE, BROOKFIELD, WISCONSIN         53045
       ---------------------------------------         -----
       (Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (262) 879-5000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE
                                      ----
                                (Title of Class)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                          Common Stock, $.01 Par Value
                          ----------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                        -------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No ( )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

State the aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common equity held
by non-affiliates of the registrant as of January 31, 2000: $3,934,477,511

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of
common stock, as of January 31, 2000: 122,617,706

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: List the following documents if
incorporated by reference and the part of the Form 10-K into which the document
is incorporated: (1) Any annual report to security holders; (2) any proxy or
information statement; and (3) any prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) or
(c) under the Securities Act of 1933.
1999 Annual Report to Shareholders - Parts II, IV
Proxy Statement for March 30, 2000, Meeting - Part III


                         Fiserv, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                   Form 10-K
                               December 31, 1999




================================================================================

                                    PART  I

================================================================================

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are `forward-
looking statements' intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability
established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the
context of the statement will include words such as "believes," "anticipates" or
"expects," or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe
future plans, objectives or goals of Fiserv, Inc. ("Fiserv" or the "Company")
are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject
to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those currently anticipated. Factors that could affect results
include, among others, economic, competitive, governmental and technological
factors affecting the Company's operations, markets, services and related
products, prices and other factors discussed in the Company's prior filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Shareholders, potential investors and
other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the
forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such
forward-looking statements.

Item 1.   Business

       Fiserv is a leading technology resource for information management
systems used by the financial industry. The Company was formed on July 31, 1984,
through the combination of two major regional data processing firms located in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and Tampa, Florida. These firms--First Data Processing of
Milwaukee and Sunshine State Systems of Tampa--began their operations in 1964
and 1971, respectively, as the data processing operations of their parent
financial institutions. Historically, operations were expanded by developing a
range of services for these parent organizations as well as other financial
institutions. Since its organization in 1984, Fiserv has grown through the
continuing development of highly specialized services and product enhancements,
the addition of new clients and the acquisition of firms complementing the
Fiserv organization.

       Headquartered in Brookfield, Wisconsin, Fiserv provides information
management technology and related services to banks, broker-dealers, credit
unions, financial planners and investment advisers, insurance companies, leasing
companies, mortgage lenders and savings institutions. The Company operates
centers nationwide for full-service financial data processing, software system
development, item processing and check imaging, technology support and related
product businesses. In addition, the Company has business support centers in
Australia, Canada, Indonesia, Philippines, Poland, Singapore and the United
Kingdom.

Business Strategy
- -----------------

       The market for products and services offered by financial institutions
continues to undergo change. New alternative lending and investment products are
being introduced and implemented by the financial industry with great frequency;
the distinctions among financial services traditionally offered by banking and
thrift organizations as well as by securities and insurance firms continue to
narrow; and financial institutions diversify and consolidate on an ongoing basis
in response to



market pressures, as well as under the auspices of regulatory agencies.

       Although such market changes have led to consolidations that have reduced
the number of financial institutions in the United States, such consolidations
have not resulted in a material reduction of the number of customers or
financial accounts serviced by the financial industry as a whole. New
organizations entering the once limited financial services industry have opened
new markets for Fiserv services.

       To stay competitive in this changing marketplace, financial institutions
are finding they must aggressively meet the growing needs of their customers for
a broad variety of new products and services that are typically transaction-
oriented and fee-based. The growing volume and types of transactions and
accounts have increased the data processing requirements of these institutions.
As a consequence, Fiserv management believes that the financial services
industry is one of the largest users of data processing products and services.

       Moreover, Fiserv expects that the industry will continue to require
significant commitments of capital and human resources to the information
systems requirements, to require application of more specialized systems, and to
require development, maintenance and enhancement of applications software.
Fiserv believes that economies of scale in data processing operations are
essential to justify the required level of expenditures and commitment of human
resources.

       In response to these market dynamics, the means by which financial
institutions obtain data processing services have changed. Many smaller, local
and regional third-party data processors are leaving the business or
consolidating with larger providers. A number of large financial institutions
previously providing third-party processing services for other institutions have
withdrawn from the business to concentrate on their primary, core businesses.
Similarly, an increasing number of financial institutions that previously
developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing
operations have outsourced their data processing requirements by licensing their
software from a third party or by contracting with third-party processors to
reduce costs and enhance their products and services. Outsourcing can involve
simply the licensing of software, thereby eliminating the costly technical
expertise within the financial institution, or the utilization of service
bureaus, facilities management or resource management capabilities. Fiserv
provides all of these options to the financial industry.

       To capitalize on these industry trends and to become the premier provider
of data processing products and related services, Fiserv has implemented a
strategy of continuing to develop new products, improving the cost effectiveness
of services provided to clients, aggressively soliciting new clients and making
both opportunistic and strategic acquisitions.











Information Technology Services
- -------------------------------

       Fiserv is a technology company focused on helping financial services
providers meet the challenges and opportunities of today's dynamic financial
marketplace. The Company's core business is serving the needs of banking,
lending, insurance, financial planners and securities providers. With its wide
array of industry-specific products, Fiserv clients can satisfy their



customers' growing desire for anywhere, anytime financial services. The
Company's operations have been classified into three business segments:
Financial institution outsourcing, systems and services; Securities processing
and trust services; and "All other and corporate." The financial institution
outsourcing, systems and services segment provides account and transaction
processing solutions and services to financial institutions and other financial
intermediaries. The securities processing and trust services segment provides
securities processing solutions and retirement plan administration services to
brokerage firms, financial planners and financial institutions. The "All other
and corporate" segment provides plastic card services and document solutions,
and includes general corporate expenses. The following discussion covers the two
major operating segments.

       Financial Institution Outsourcing, Systems & Services. Account processing
is a core requirement of every financial institution. It's also vital to the
operations of brokerage firms and insurance companies. No matter how the
industry may consolidate and evolve, there will always remain the need for
account processing. That's where Fiserv is positioned--as a leader in financial
information management.

       Fiserv provides comprehensive solutions designed to meet the information
processing requirements of financial institutions, including account and
transaction processing services, item processing, loan servicing and lending
systems. The Company offers its clients service bureau and in-house processing
systems, e-commerce solutions and complementary products. In essence, Fiserv
provides all the technology a bank, credit union, mortgage lender, savings or
financing institution needs to run its operations--from deposit accounts to
loans to general ledger to check processing.

       Fiserv products, services and software solutions are available through
multiple delivery channels to financial institutions in the United States, and
many of its systems have applications designed for the unique requirements of
financial institutions operating outside of North America. Fiserv international
teams develop, sell, install and support core banking and delivery channel
integration solutions for a wide range of international banks and financial
services companies located in over 50 countries.

       All Fiserv core systems can be complemented with a number of other
products that allow clients to create a total servicing solution, depending on
their requirements. These complementary products and back-office solutions
include treasury and investment management, decision support and performance
measurement solutions, electronic funds transfer services, imaging systems,
human resource information systems, call center systems, loan origination and
tracking, auto leasing software, data warehousing/data mining and credit
services.

       The insurance industry, like banking, has requirements for basic
administration services and information processing systems. Fiserv brings
expertise in information management technology and related administration
processing services to the insurance and banking industries. The products and
solutions offered by the Company automate the full range of insurance services
and support the growing convergence between banking and insurance.

       Fiserv insurance solutions include administration services and software
for life, annuity, health insurance, property/casualty and workers compensation;
award-winning claims workstation software; comprehensive financial accounting
systems; computer-based training for insurance and securities; and electronic
sales platforms that can be delivered over the Internet.

       Securities Processing and Trust Services. The securities business is
about transactions and volume; advanced technology that makes executing and
clearing trades faster, easier and more economical; and service excellence and
customer satisfaction. Fiserv has accumulated the technology resources and
industry knowledge required to meet the needs of brokerage firms and financial
institutions that are expanding into this business.

       The Company provides comprehensive clearing, execution and brokerage
services.  With Fiserv, brokerage firms and financial institutions gain a
technology resource with the volumes, management expertise, products and service
necessary to help satisfy customer needs.



       The administration of self-directed retirement plans is also a highly
specialized business that benefits, as do all financial services applications,
from technology. Fiserv has built a trusted reputation in this field by applying
its expertise to technology for administration of business and self-directed
retirement plans and related services.

       As a leading provider of retirement plan administration and processing
services to financial planners, Fiserv provides a full range of services
including trustee services, proprietary software for registered investment
advisors, financial seminars and related marketing materials.

       Financial information concerning the Company's industry segments is
included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the
Company's annual report to shareholders included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K as Exhibit 13 and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Servicing the Market
- --------------------

       The market for Fiserv account and transaction processing services and
products has specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by
clients on software flexibility, product quality, reliability of service,
comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, timely introduction of new
products and features, cost effectiveness and demand for service excellence.
Through its multiple product offerings, the Company successfully services these
market needs for clients ranging in size from start-ups to some of the largest
financial services providers worldwide.

       Fiserv believes that the position it holds as an independent, growth-
oriented company dedicated to its business is an advantage to its clients.  The
Company differs from many of the account and transaction processing resources
currently available since it isn't a regional or local cooperatively owned
organization, nor a data processing subsidiary, an affiliate of a financial
institution or a hardware vendor.  Due to the economies of scale gained through
its broad market presence, Fiserv offers clients a selection of information
management and data processing solutions designed to meet the specific needs of
the ever-changing financial industry.

       The Company believes this independence and primary focus on the financial
industry helps its business development and related client service and product
support teams remain responsive to the technology needs of its market, now and
for the future.

       "The Client Comes First" is one of the Company's founding principles.
It's a belief backed by a dedication to providing ongoing client service and
support--no matter the client size.

       The Company's commitment of substantial resources to training and
technical support helps keep Fiserv clients first. Fiserv conducts the majority
of its new and ongoing client training in its technology centers, where the
Company maintains fully equipped demonstration and training facilities
containing equipment used in the delivery of Fiserv services. Fiserv also
provides local and on-site training services.

       Fiserv has been an international company since 1986, when its retail
banking products were first launched throughout Europe, Asia and Latin America.
Since then, the Company has grown an impressive infrastructure for supporting
clients in international markets.  Fiserv currently maintains international
support staffs in Australia; Canada; Orlando, Florida; Singapore; and the United
Kingdom.

Product Development
- -------------------

       In order to meet the changing technology needs of the clients served by
Fiserv, the Company continually develops, maintains and enhances its systems.
Resources applied to product development and maintenance are believed to be
approximately 8% to 10% of Company revenues, about half of which is dedicated to
software development.



       The unique Fiserv network of development and financial information
technology centers applies the shared expertise of multiple Fiserv teams to
design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems around the leading
technology platforms.  The applications of its account processing systems meet
the preferences and diverse requirements of the various international, national,
regional or local market-specific financial service environments of the
Company's many clients.

       Though multiple Fiserv centers share the Company's variety of nationally
developed and supported software, each center has specialized capabilities that
enable it to offer system application features and functions unique to its
client base.  Where the client's requirements warrant, Fiserv purchases software
programs from third parties that are interfaced with existing Fiserv systems.
In developing its products, Fiserv stresses interaction with and responsiveness
to the needs of its clients.

       Fiserv provides a dedicated solution designed, developed, maintained and
enhanced according to each client's goals for service quality, business
development, asset/liability mix, local-market positioning and other user-
defined parameters.

       Fiserv regards its software as proprietary and utilizes a combination of
trade secrecy law, internal security practices and employee non-disclosure
agreements for protection.  The Company believes that legal protection of its
software, while important, is less significant than the knowledge and experience
of the Company's management and personnel and their ability to develop, enhance
and market new products and services.  The Company believes that it holds all
proprietary rights necessary for the conduct of its business.

Competition
- -----------

       The market for information technology products and services within the
financial industry is highly competitive.  The Company's principal competitors
include internal data processing departments, data processing affiliates of
large companies or large computer hardware manufacturers, independent computer
service firms and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives.
Certain competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing
resources than the Company.  Competition for in-house data processing and
software departments is intensified by the efforts of computer hardware vendors
who encourage the growth of internal data centers.

       Competitive factors for processing services include product quality,
reliability of service, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines,
timely introduction of new products and features, and price. The Company
believes that it competes favorably in each of these categories. In addition,
the Company believes that its position as an independent vendor, rather than as
a cooperative, an affiliate of a larger corporation or a hardware vendor, is a
competitive advantage.

Government Regulation
- ---------------------

       The Company's data processing subsidiaries are not themselves directly
subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial
institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions.  As a provider of
services to these entities, however, the data processing operations are observed
from time to time by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National
Credit Union Association, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and various state regulatory authorities.  In
addition, several of the Company's operations are reviewed annually by
independent auditors to provide internal control evaluations for its clients'
auditors and regulators.

       As trust companies under Colorado law, First Trust and Lincoln Trust are
subject to the



regulations of the Colorado Division of Banking. First Trust and Lincoln Trust
historically have complied with such regulations and although no assurance can
be given, the Company believes First Trust and Lincoln Trust will continue to be
able to comply with such regulations. Commencing in 1991, First Trust received
approval of its application for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage
of its customer deposits.

       The Company's securities businesses, Fiserv Securities, Inc. (formerly
BHC Financial, Inc.) and affiliates and Fiserv Correspondent Services, Inc.
(formerly Hanifen, Imhoff Clearing Corporation and JWGenesis Clearing
Corporation), are subject to the broker-dealer rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the National
Association of Securities Dealers and other stock exchanges of which they are
members.

Employees
- ---------

       Fiserv employs approximately 13,500 specialists throughout the United
States and worldwide in its information management centers and related product
and service companies.  This service support network includes employees with
backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often complemented
by management and other direct experience in banks, credit unions, mortgage
firms, savings and other financial services business environments.

       Fiserv employees provide expertise in sales and marketing; account
management and client services; computer operations, network control and
technical support; programming, software development, modification and
maintenance; conversions and client training; financial planning and related
support services.

       In supporting international markets, Fiserv works closely with its
clients to help ensure their continued success. Fiserv employees speak the same
language as their clients, they also understand the differences in the style of
doing business, as well as the financial products requirements and regulations
unique to each client and its specific market.

       Fiserv employees are not represented by a union, and there have been no
work stoppages, strikes or organizational attempts.  The service nature of the
Fiserv business makes its employees an important corporate asset, and while the
market for qualified personnel is competitive, the Company does not experience
significant difficulty with hiring or retaining its staff of top industry
professionals.  In assessing companies to acquire, the quality and stability of
the prospective company's staff are emphasized.

       Management attributes its ability to attract and keep quality employees
to, among other things, the Company's growth and dedication to state-of-the-art
software development tools and hardware technologies.

Item 2.   Properties

       Fiserv currently operates full-service data centers, software system
development centers and item processing and back-office support centers in 137
cities (125 in the United States):  Birmingham, Alabama; Little Rock, Arkansas;
Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Atherton, Fresno, Glendale, Irvine, Lafayette,
Moorpark, Oakland, Ontario, Orange, Redwood City, Sacramento, San Diego, San
Leandro, Van Nuys and Walnut, California; Denver and Englewood, Colorado;
Wallingford, Connecticut; Boca Raton, Jacksonville, Lake Mary, Lake Wales,
Lakeland, Maitland, Miami, Orlando, Plantation, Tampa and Titusville, Florida;
Atlanta, Duluth, Macon, Marietta and Norcross, Georgia; Honolulu, Hawaii; Cedar
Rapids and West Des Moines, Iowa; Arlington Heights, Chicago, Des Plaines,
Marion and Rock Island, Illinois; Indianapolis and South Bend, Indiana; Topeka,
Kansas; Bowling Green and Louisville, Kentucky; Baton Rouge and Kenner,
Louisiana; Rockville, Maryland; Braintree, Mansfield, and Somerville,
Massachusetts; Flint, Northville and



Troy, Michigan; Mendota Heights and Shoreview, Minnesota; Kansas City and
Springfield, Missouri; Lincoln and Omaha, Nebraska; Mahwah, New Providence and
South Plainfield, New Jersey; Santa Fe, New Mexico; Fayetteville, Great Neck,
Melville, New York, Syracuse and Utica, New York; Chapel Hill, Greensboro and
Raleigh, North Carolina; Fargo, North Dakota; Cincinnati and Cleveland, Ohio;
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Corvallis and Portland, Oregon; Bensalem, Bryn Mawr,
Erie, King of Prussia, Malvern, Norristown, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Valley
Forge and Williamsport, Pennsylvania; Newberry, South Carolina; Memphis,
Tennessee; Addison, Austin, Beaumont, Dallas, Denton, Houston, San Antonio,
Southlake and Stafford, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; Williamsburg, Virginia;
Bellevue, Kent, Seattle and Yakima, Washington; and Brookfield, Milwaukee and
New Berlin, Wisconsin. International business centers are located in Adelaide,
South Australia, New South Wales and Sydney, Australia; Bogota, Colombia;
London, Uxbridge, and Middlesex, England; Jakarta, Indonesia; Manila,
Philippines; Warsaw, Poland; and Singapore.

       The Company owns facilities in Brookfield, Corvallis, Greensboro,
Lincoln, Marion, Moorpark, South Bend and Valley Forge; all other buildings in
which centers are located are subject to leases expiring through 2001 and
beyond. The Company owns or leases 149 mainframe computers (Data General,
Digital, Hewlett Packard, IBM, NCR, Tandem and Unisys). In addition, the Company
maintains its own national data communication network consisting of
communications processors and leased lines.

       Fiserv believes its facilities and equipment are generally well
maintained and are in good operating condition. The Company believes that the
computer equipment it owns and its various facilities are adequate for its
present and foreseeable business. Fiserv periodically upgrades its mainframe
capability as needed. Fiserv contracts with multiple sites to provide processing
backup in the event of a disaster and maintains duplicate tapes of data
collected and software used in its business in locations away from the Company's
facilities.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

       In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are
named as defendants in various lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the
Company. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may
ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the financial statements of the Company.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

       During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no
matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

       The executive officers and other officers of the Company as of February
14, 2000, together with their ages, positions and business experience are
described below:

       Name                      Age              Position
       Leslie M. Muma             55    Vice-Chairman of the Board,
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer
       Donald F. Dillon           59    Vice-Chairman of the Board and
                                        Chairman of Information Technology,
                                        Inc.



       Kenneth R. Jensen          56    Senior Executive Vice President,
                                        Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
       Howard F. Arner            59    President and Chief Operating Officer,
                                        Insurance Solutions Group
       Norman J. Balthasar        53    President and Chief Operating Officer,
                                        Financial Institution Outsourcing Group
       Robert H. Beriault         48    President and Chief Operating Officer,
                                        Securities Group
       Frank R. Martire           52    President and Chief Operating Officer,
                                        Financial Institution Systems and
                                        Services Group
       Gordon G. Rockafellow      63    President and Chief Operating Officer,
                                        Trust Services Group
       Dean C. Schmelzer          49    Executive Vice President - Marketing &
                                        Sales
       Charles W. Sprague         50    Executive Vice President, General
                                        Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer
                                        and Secretary

       Mr. Muma has been a Director of the Company since it was established in
1984; he was named Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in 1995 and Chief
Executive Officer in 1999. Mr. Muma served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company from 1984 to 1999.

       Mr. Dillon was named Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Company in 1995. From 1976 to 1995, Mr. Dillon was co-founder and President of
Information Technology, Inc. ("ITI"), a software and services company that was
acquired by the Company in 1995 and Mr. Dillon currently serves as Chairman of
ITI.

       Mr. Jensen has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
Treasurer, Assistant Secretary and a Director of the Company since it was
established in 1984. He was named Senior Executive Vice President in 1986.

       Mr. Arner was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv
Insurance Solutions Group in 1999. He served as Corporate Executive Vice
President and President-Insurance Solutions Group from 1998 to 1999. Mr. Arner
was Chief Executive Officer of Network Data Processing from 1994 to 1998, when
it was acquired by the Company.

       Mr. Balthasar was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Fiserv Financial Institution Outsourcing Group in 1999. He served as Corporate
Executive Vice President and President-Savings and Community Bank Group from
1996 to 1999. Mr. Balthasar has been with Fiserv and its predecessor company
since 1974.

       Mr. Beriault was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Fiserv Securities Group in 1999. He served as Corporate Executive Vice President
and President-Securities Processing Group from 1998 to 1999. Mr. Beriault was
President of Lincoln Trust Company from 1986 to 1995, when it was acquired by
the Company.

       Mr. Martire was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv
Financial Institution Systems and Services Group in 1999. He served as Corporate
Executive Vice President and President-Bank & Credit Union Group from 1996 to
1999. Mr. Martire was with Citicorp Information Resources from 1969 to 1991. He
was the President and CEO of Citicorp Information Resources in 1991, when it was
acquired by the Company.

       Mr. Rockafellow was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Fiserv Trust Services Group in 1999. He served as Corporate Executive Vice
President and President-Trust



Group from 1996 to 1999. Mr. Rockafellow was the President and CEO of First
Trust Company from 1982 to 1985, when it was acquired by the Company.

        Mr. Schmelzer was named Executive Vice President, Marketing & Sales for
the Company in 1992. Prior to joining Fiserv, he was Director of Commercial
Analysis for IBM.

        Mr. Sprague has been Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative
Officer of the Company since 1999. He served as Corporate Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999. He has been involved
with the Company's corporate and legal concerns since it was formed in 1984.

================================================================================

                                    PART II

================================================================================

        Pursuant to Instruction G(2) for Form 10-K, the information required in
Items 5 through 8 are incorporated by reference from the Company's annual report
to shareholders included in this Form 10-K Annual Report as Exhibit 13.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

        Not applicable.

================================================================================

                                   PART III

================================================================================

        Pursuant to Instruction G(3) for Form 10-K, the information required in
Items 10 through 13 is incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive
proxy statement which is expected to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or
before February 28, 2000.

================================================================================

                                    PART IV

================================================================================

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) Financial Statements:

        The consolidated financial statements of the Company as of December 31,
1999 and 1998 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1999, together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, dated January
28, 2000, appear on pages 23 through 44 of the Company's annual report to
shareholders, Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K Annual Report, and are incorporated
herein by reference.

(a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule:

        The following financial statement schedule of the Company and related
documents are included in this Report on Form 10-K:

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
        Independent Auditors' Report                                         14
        Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                       14



       All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:
       No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31,
       1999.

(c)  Exhibits:
       The exhibits listed in the accompanying exhibit index are filed as part
       of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  February 28, 2000
FISERV, INC.

By     /s/  Leslie M. Muma
       --------------------------------
       Leslie M. Muma
       (Chief Executive Officer)

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities indicated on February 28, 2000.


Signature                            Capacity

/s/ Leslie M. Muma
- ----------------------------------
Leslie M. Muma                       Vice Chairman of the Board, President,
                                     Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Donald F. Dillon
- ----------------------------------
Donald F. Dillon                     Vice Chairman of the Board,
                                     Chairman -Information Technology, Inc.

/s/ Kenneth R. Jensen
- ----------------------------------
Kenneth R. Jensen                    Director, Senior Executive Vice President,
                                     Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer

/s/ George D. Dalton
- ----------------------------------
George D. Dalton                     Chairman of the Board


/s/ Daniel P. Kearney
- ----------------------------------
Daniel P. Kearney                    Director


/s/ Gerald J. Levy
- ----------------------------------
Gerald J. Levy                       Director


/s/ L. William Seidman
- ----------------------------------
L. William Seidman                   Director


/s/ Thekla R. Shackelford
- ----------------------------------
Thekla R. Shackelford                Director



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



Shareholders and Directors of Fiserv, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Fiserv, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1999, and have issued our report thereon dated
January 28, 2000; such consolidated financial statements and report are included
in your 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement
schedule of Fiserv, Inc., listed in Item 14. This consolidated financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion,
such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
January 28, 2000



                                  SCHEDULE II
                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number                    Exhibit Description
- ------                    -------------------

2.1       Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 6, 1995, by and between
          Fiserv, Inc. and Information Technology, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to
          the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-58709,
          and incorporated herein by reference).

3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended.

3.2       By-laws, as amended.

4.1       Credit Agreements dated as of May 17, 1999, by and among Fiserv, Inc.,
          the Lenders Party Hereto, and The Bank of New York, as Administrative
          Agent. (Not being filed herewith, but will be provided to the
          Commission upon its request, pursuant to Item 601(b) (4) (iii) (A) of
          Regulation S-K.)

4.2       Note Purchase Agreement dated as of March 15, 1991, as amended, among
          Fiserv, Inc., Aid Association for Lutherans, Northwestern National
          Life Insurance Company, Northern Life Insurance Company and The North
          Atlantic Life Insurance Company of America. (Not being filed herewith,
          but will be provided to the Commission upon its request, pursuant to
          Item 601(b) (4) (iii) (A) of Regulation S-K.)

4.3       Note Purchase Agreement dated as of April 30, 1990, as amended, among
          Fiserv, Inc. and Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of
          America. (Not being filed herewith, but will be provided to the
          Commission upon its request, pursuant to Item 601(b) (4) (iii) (A) of
          Regulation S-K.)

4.4       Note Purchase Agreement dated as of May 17, 1995, as amended, among
          Fiserv, Inc., Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America,
          Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, Aid Association for
          Lutherans, Northern Life Insurance Company and Northwestern National
          Life Insurance Company. (Not being filed herewith, but will be
          provided to the Commission upon its request, pursuant to Item 601(b)
          (4) (iii) (A) of Regulation S-K.)

4.5       Shareholder Rights Plan (filed as Exhibit 4 to the Company's Current
          Report on Form 8-K dated February 24, 1998, and incorporated herein by
          reference (File No. 0-14948.))

13.       The 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (to the extent incorporated by
          reference herein).

21.       List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.       Independent Auditors' Consent.

27.       Financial Data Schedule (EDGAR version only).


