
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 12-31-94




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20459
                                   FORM 10-K
X   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                            OR
__  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from             to
                               -----------    -----------

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-2610

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

             UTAH                                         87-0227400
(State of other jurisdiction of               (Internal Revenue Service Employer
incorporation or organization)                      Identification Number)

         1380 Kennecott Building
          Salt Lake City, Utah                              84133
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (801) 524-4787

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the act:  None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the act:

                        Common Stock - without par value
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    X     No
                                         -------     ------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
           ----

Aggregate Market Value of Common Stock Held by Nonaffiliates at
February 27, 1995 ..................................................$446,847,000

Number of Common Shares Outstanding at February 27, 1995.......14,562,970 Shares

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Definitive Proxy Statement (See Part III, Item 10, Item 11, Item 12, and
Item 13).



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                      ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1994 ON FORM 10-K

                               




PART I

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation (the Parent) is a multibank holding company organized
under the laws of Utah in 1955, registered under the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956, as amended.  Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries (the Company),
is the second largest bank holding company headquartered in Utah and provides a
full range of banking and related services primarily in Utah, Nevada, and
Arizona.  Its principal subsidiaries are banking subsidiaries which include
Zions First National Bank, the second largest commercial banking organization
in the state of Utah, Nevada State Bank, the fifth largest commercial bank in
Nevada, and National Bank of Arizona the  fifth largest commercial bank in
Arizona.

The Company's business and the businesses of many of its larger borrowers are
primarily concentrated in the state of Utah.  Consequently, the Company's
results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon general trends
in the Utah economy and real estate markets.

The Company has focused in recent years on maintaining strong liquidity,
risk-based capital and cash flow positions and on developing strong internal
controls.  An increasing focus is currently being placed on strengthening the
Company's retail banking business, as well as its small- and medium-sized 
business lending, residential mortgage and investment activities, and 
increasing the proportion of fee income in its total revenue mix.  The 
Company's general operating objectives include enhancing the Company's market
position in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona through in-market acquisitions of smaller
depository institutions, and through the continued development of the Company's
present lines of business.

The Company is committed to improving the communities it serves now and in the
years to come.  Employees, as active concerned citizens, perform acts of service
and goodwill to heighten a standard of living and boost community pride and 
morale.  The Company engages in a variety of loan programs which benefit low to
moderate income individuals; ranging from housing and business loans to
automobile loans.

At December 31, 1994, the Company had assets of $4.9 billion, loans of $2.4
billion, deposits of $3.7 billion, and shareholders' equity of more than $.3
billion.  A more detailed discussion concerning the Company's financial
condition is contained in Part II of this report.

The Banking Subsidiaries

The banks provide a wide variety of commercial and retail banking and
mortgage-lending financial services.  Commercial loans, lease financing, cash
management, lockbox, customized draft processing, and other special financial
services are provided for business and other commercial banking customers.  A
wide range of personal banking services are provided to individuals, including
bankcard, student and other installment loans and home equity credit line
loans, checking accounts, savings accounts, time certificates of various types
and maturities, trust services and safe deposit facilities.  In addition,
direct deposit of payroll, social security and various other government checks
is offered.  Automated teller machines provide 24-hour access and availability
to customers' accounts and to many consumer banking services through statewide,
regional, and nationwide ATM networks.

Zions First National Bank in Utah has developed special packages of financial
services designed to meet the financial needs of particular market niches,
including the Premier Account for those 50 years and older and the Student
Account.  The Bank has also established a Private Banking group to service the
financial needs of wealthy individuals; an Executive Banking program to service
the needs of corporate executives of commercial clients, and an Affinity
program which offers discounted financial services to employees of commercial
accounts on a group basis.  Zions Bank has also developed a series of products
geared to the lower-income customer, including the Flex Loan (a low-income
personal loan), several low-income housing programs, and the Reddi-Savings
account-- a savings account with unlimited ATM access for those not qualifying
for or desiring a checking account.

Both Zions First National Bank and Nevada State Bank have established trust
divisions which offer clients a variety of fiduciary services ranging from the
administration of estates and trusts to the management of funds held under
pension and profit sharing plans.  They also offer custodian, portfolio, and
management services.  The Trust Division of Zions First National Bank also acts
as fiscal and payment agent, transfer agent, registrar, and trustee under
corporate and trust indentures for corporations, governmental bodies, and
public authorities.







Zions First National Bank is a registered dealer in, and underwriter of, general
obligations of state and municipal governments, and a primary dealer in
obligations of the United States government and several federal agencies.  
Zions First National Bank also provides correspondent banking services such as
cash letter processing, wire services, federal funds facilities, and loan 
participations.

Zions First National Bank's International Banking Department issues letters of
credit and handles foreign exchange transactions for customers, but it does not
take a trading position in foreign exchange.  Zions First National Bank's Grand
Cayman branch accepts Eurodollar deposits from qualified customers, and places
deposits with foreign banks and foreign branches of other U.S. banks.  Zions'
banking subsidiaries, however, do not engage in any foreign lending.

The Company's commercial banking operations generated net income of $65,661,000
in 1994, a .6% increase over the $65,263,000 earned in 1993.  Results for 1993
have been restated to reflect the pooling-of-interests accounting  treatment
afforded the acquisition of National Bancorp of Arizona during the first quarter
of 1994.  Income from commercial banking operations was negatively affected in
1994 by rising interest rates and narrowing margins, particularly in the
indirect installment contract business.  Rising interest rates adversely
affected the sale of fixed income securities, reducing revenues at the recently
acquired Discount Corporation of New York.  Rising rates were also manifest in
the cost of deposits, as competitors' balance sheets became more fully
loaned-up, creating pressure to generate greater deposit growth.  Competitive
conditions were also intense in the indirect automobile receivables business.
Although the volume of such receivables originated increased, margins were
greatly reduced from levels previously experienced.

During the year a major effort was initiated to reduce the cost structure in the
Company's banking operations.  A major focus of this initiative is to eliminate
redundant operations in the three subsidiary banks, and to centralize functions
which are transparent to customers while at the same time maintaining a great
deal of decision-making capability at the local management level.  At year-end
1994, staffing in the lead bank, excluding the mortgage operations, had been
reduced by 57 full-time equivalent employees, or 3.4% below staffing levels a
year earlier.  An early retirement program was  made available to certain
employees subsequent to year-end 1994, with approximately 40 employees
participating.  Further cost-reduction projects are underway in 1995.

Average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell
increased 31.4% or $208,136,000 in 1994, and average securities
held-to-maturity, available-for-sale and in trading accounts increased 27.9% or
$336,701,000.  Average interest-bearing deposits held at other banks and other
money market investments decreased $108,185,000 or 81.7% during the year. Total
average loans and lease receivables, net of unearned discount, increased 16.0%
or $354,310,000, despite the fact that the Company securitized receivables in
the gross amount of $703,013,000 during 1994.

Core deposits continued to experience strong growth, as the total volume of such
accounts rose $339,049,000 or 11.1%.  The components of this growth included an
increase of $111,723,000 or 15.3% in average demand deposits, an increase of
$92,161,000 or 14.2% in savings deposits, an increase of $167,103,000 or 14.9%
in average money market account balances, and a decrease of $31,938,000 in time
deposits under $100,000.  Total average deposits increased 12.5% or $398,935,000
to $3,595,409,000 in 1994.

Average federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to
repurchase increased 40.0% or $309,817,000 in 1994, while securities sold short
increased 165.6% or $114,963,000.  Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of
Seattle and other borrowings decreased 20.0% or $36,016,000.  Total
shareholders' equity allocated to commercial banking operations increased 18.5%
or $54,467,000 in 1994.

The ATM network was further expanded in 1994, with 40 additional machines being
deployed.  The total number of ATM's in service at year-end 1994 was 215, a 23%
increase over the prior year-end totals.  The ATM network includes installations
at branch offices, stores, shopping centers, resort areas, hotels, airports,
and university campuses.

Utah

Zions First National Bank, founded in 1873, has 86 offices located throughout
the state of Utah, plus one foreign office, for a total of 87 banking offices.
Zions First National Bank's net income was $48,203,000, a decline of 8.8% from
the $52,867,000 earned in 1993.  The decline was a result of a $321,000 decline
in net revenue, a $6,437,000 increase in noninterest expenses and a $1,435,000
reduction in benefit from 1993 accounting changes, offset by a $926,000 decline
in provision for loan losses and a $2,603,000 reduction in the income tax
provision.







Several initiatives were launched in 1994 to increase the convenience of banking
for consumers and businesses.  Zions First National Bank was the first Utah bank
to aggressively promote point-of-sale debit card services throughout Utah.  The
bank also expanded its telephone service center to provide access to a wide
variety of banking services via telephone.  The Company's Reddi-Response system
now handles approximately 10,000 phone calls per day.  Zions Bank also became
the first Utah-based institution to introduce Electronic Data Interchange, a
package of data transmission services for corporate customers which facilitates
the electronic processing of purchase orders, invoices, and payment information.

Zions First National Bank successfully completed the first phase of a pilot
program in conjunction with the National Association of Certified Development
Companies to underwrite SBA 504 loans through selected local CDC's throughout
the United States.  An initial $43.7 million pool of commercial first mortgage
loans originated under the program was securitized in 1994, and it is
anticipated that the program will be significantly expanded in 1995.

During 1994, Zions First National Bank organized a Small Business Investment
Corporation to provide early-stage capital, primarily for technology companies
located in the Intermountain West.  The fund, operating as Wasatch Venture Fund,
completed ten investments during its first year of operation.

In 1994, two new branches were opened in Layton and Eden, Utah, and during the
fourth quarter, the pending merger transaction of Zions Bancorporation and First
Western Bancorporation was announced.  The transaction is expected to be
consummated during the second quarter of 1995, and will mark the Company's
initial entry into the southeastern area of the state.  The acquisition will
provide $37 million in assets and the addition of three banking offices operated
by First Western Bancorporation's banking subsidiary, First Western National
Bank, in Moab, Monticello and Blanding, Utah.

Nevada

Nevada State Bank, a state-chartered Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
("FDIC")-insured institution, with its main office in downtown Las Vegas, opened
two new grocery store banking centers in Summerlin and Pahrump, Nevada, during
1994, expanding its banking offices to 21 in Nevada.  Net income at Nevada State
Bank, after the amortization of purchase premium, increased 30.9% to $6,140,000
in 1994 as compared to $4,691,000 in 1993.  Nevada State Bank's earnings
increase was attributable to a $3,890,000 increase in net revenue, offset by a
$646,000 increase in noninterest expenses, a $410,000 increase in the loan loss
provision, a $1,032,000 increase in income taxes and a $353,000 reduction in the
net benefit produced by accounting changes in 1993.

Arizona

During 1994, the Company substantially increased its presence in the Arizona
market.  The acquisition of National Bancorp of Arizona was completed during the
first quarter, and Rio Salado Bancorp was acquired during the second quarter.
The banking operations of these two companies were merged with Zions First
National Bank of Arizona, and the resulting bank, with 10 offices, is operating
under the National Bank of Arizona name.  At year-end, the bank had over $700
million in assets, and over $36 million in net revenue, making it the fifth
largest commercial bank in Arizona.  Despite the disruptions caused by the
merger of these three organizations, National Bank of Arizona achieved a 46.9%
increase in net income, with 1994 earnings of $11,318,000 as compared with 1993
net income of $7,705,000.  The increase resulted from a net revenue increase of
$11,163,000, a reduction in loan loss provision of $301,000, offset by increases
in noninterest expenses and taxes of $4,758,000 and $2,599,000, respectively,
and a reduction in income from 1993 accounting changes of $494,000.  The 1994
net income of National Bank of Arizona produced a strong return on average
shareholders' equity of 24.3%.  National Bank of Arizona's results have been
restated to reflect the pooling-of-interest acquisition of that operation in the
first quarter of 1994 and the results also reflect the acquisition of Rio Salado
Bancorp, using the purchase accounting method, during the second quarter of
1994.  The two acquisitions also provide a foundation for increased activity on
the part of Zions Bancorporation's nonbank subsidiaries in the Arizona market.







Other Subsidiaries

The Company conducts various other bank-related business activities through
subsidiaries owned by the Parent and wholly-owned subsidiaries of Zions First
National Bank.  Zions Credit Corporation engages in lease origination and
servicing operations in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona.  Zions Life Insurance Company
underwrites as reinsurer credit-related life and disability insurance. Zions
Insurance Agency, Inc., operates an insurance brokerage business which
administers various credit-related insurance programs in the Company's
subsidiaries and sells general lines of insurance.  The Company's insurance
subsidiaries offer customers a full range of insurance products through licensed
agents.  The products include credit life products, collateral protection
products, life policies, homeowners policies, property and casualty policies,
and commercial business owner type policies.  Zions Data Service Company
provides data processing services to all subsidiaries of the Company. Zions
Mortgage Company, a subsidiary of Zions First National Bank, conducts a mortgage
banking operation in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona.  Zions Investment Securities,
Inc., also a subsidiary of the Bank, provides discount investment brokerage
services on a nonadvisory basis to both commercial and consumer customers.
Personal investment officers employed by the discount brokerage subsidiary in
many larger offices provide customers with a wide range of investment products,
including municipal bonds, mutual funds and tax-deferred annuities.

Zions Credit Corporation generated $63,140,000 in new lease volume in 1994, a
17.1% increase over the 1993 volume.  An additional $15,722,000 in leases was
brokered to third parties.  Average gross lease receivable and conditional sales
contracts serviced by Zions Credit Corporation decreased 3.7% to $129,134,000 in
1994 from $134,029,000 in 1993.

Zions Insurance Agency, Inc. and Zions Life Insurance Company produced combined
net income of $1,070,000, a 92.4% increase over the $556,000 generated in 1993.
The increased income was largely attributable  to increased volume in personal
lines of insurance and improved performance in the sale of mortgage life and
other credit life products.

Zions Data Service Company engaged in a variety of significant projects in 1994.
Most notable was the installation of a new deposit and account analysis system
which will simplify the development of new products and provide greater
flexibility in meeting customer requirements.  A new trust system was also
installed, providing state-of-the-art operational capabilities.  A loan
management system was developed using relational database technology.  The new
system will provide managers with a much greater capability to view the full
range of a customer's account relationships and to easily develop customized
management reports.  Zions Data Service Company also began the installation of a
wide area network to support improved data and voice communications between the
Company's various branches and departments.  The new network will improve
response times and allow the Company to significantly leverage its substantial
investment in personal computer equipment and software.

Zions Mortgage Company experienced a sharp reduction in mortgage originations as
a result of an adverse interest rate environment in 1994.  Total retail mortgage
origination volume decreased 47.4% to $382,800,000 in 1994 from $727,500,000 in
1993.  In reaction to the decline in activity, staffing was reduced 27% between
March and December, 1994.  Higher interest rates resulted in a loss on loan
sales of $3,445,000, including a downward mark-to-market adjustment of
$1,700,000 in a portfolio of adjustable rate mortgages, as compared to a gain on
loan sales of $2,035,000 in 1993.  The loss on loan sales was partially offset
by a gain in the amount of $2,516,000 from the sale of mortgage servicing
rights.  Zions Mortgage Company experienced a net loss of $319,000 in 1994, as
compared to net income of $530,000 in 1993.  Inasmuch as Zions Mortgage Company
is a direct subsidiary of Zions First National Bank, its results of operations
are included in the banking operations results.

In a very difficult year for securities sales, Zions Investment Securities, Inc.
nevertheless contributed $730,000 in pretax income, rent income and revenue
sharing to the  Company's banking operations.  Net income, which is included in
the banking operations results, was $193,000, a 37.5% reduction from the
$309,000 earned in 1993.

1994 Economic Trends

The Intermountain region continued to exhibit a healthy economy during 1994,
though the pace of economic growth slowed somewhat in the Company's primary
market area of Utah.  Employment growth in Utah totaled 6.2% in 1994, down from
6.9% in 1993, while residential construction slowed 13% between the first and
fourth quarters of 1994.  Commercial construction remains strong, driven by low
vacancy rates.  Although it appears that Utah may lose approximately 2,000
defense jobs over the next few years as a result of downsizing at Defense Depot
Ogden and Dugway Proving Grounds, the future of the state's largest employer,
Hill Air Force Base, currently appears secure, inasmuch as the Department of
Defense has not recommended the facility's closure to the Base Closure and
Realignment Commission.







Nevada's employment growth slowed to 4.2% in 1994 from 7.2% in 1993 as a result
of the completion of several major hotel construction projects.  The state's
net gaming revenues - an indicator of tourist activity - rose 16% in the fourth
quarter of 1994 as compared to the year-earlier period.

Employment grew 4.9% in Arizona in 1994 compared to 4.1% in 1993.   There has
been a substantial reduction in office vacancy rates in Phoenix and Tucson in
recent months, with the result that suburban office vacancy rates are now well
below national averages.

The Federal Reserve System moved aggressively during 1994 to slow the rate of
growth in the nation's economy.  The result was a two- and-a-half percentage
point increase in the prime rate, and commensurate increases in intermediate and
long-term rates, producing the most difficult fixed-income market in several
decades.  The increase in rates significantly affected mortgage lending
activity, as retail mortgage originations declined.  The rise in interest rates
also slowed retail and institutional investment sales.

Supervision and Regulation

Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal
and state law.  The information contained in this section summarizes portions of
the applicable laws and regulations relating to the supervision and regulation
of Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries.  These summaries do not purport to
be complete, and they are qualified in their entirety by reference to the
particular statutes and regulations described.  Any change in applicable law or
regulation may have a material effect on the business and prospects of Zions
Bancorporation and its subsidiaries.

Bank Holding Company Regulation

Zions Bancorporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank
Holding Company Act and is registered as such with the Federal Reserve Board.
Under the current terms of that Act, activities of Zions Bancorporation, and
those of companies which it controls or in which it holds more than 5% of the
voting stock, are limited to banking or managing or controlling banks or
furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, or any other
activity which the Federal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to
banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.  In
making such determinations, the Federal Reserve Board is required to consider
whether the performance of such activities by a bank holding company or its
subsidiaries can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such
as greater convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency that
outweigh the possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources,
decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking
practices.

Bank holding companies, such as Zions Bancorporation, are required to file with
the Federal Reserve Board certain reports and information and are required to
obtain prior approval of the Board to engage in an new activity or to acquire
more than 5% of any class of voting stock of any company.  Generally, no
application to acquire shares of a bank located outside that state in which the
operations of the applicant's banking subsidiaries were principally conducted on
the date it became subject to the Act may be approved by the Federal Reserve
Board unless such acquisition is specifically authorized by the laws of the
state in which the bank whose shares are to be acquired is located.  In the
meantime, most state have specifically authorized the acquisition of banks
located in those states by out-out-state companies, in many cases subject to
various restrictions.

The Federal Reserve Board has authorized the acquisition and control by bank
holding companies of savings and loan associations and certain other savings
institutions without regard to geographic restrictions applicable to acquisition
of shares of a bank.

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Branching and Efficiency Act of 1994 ("Riegle-Neal
Act") permits, beginning one year after enactment and subject to approval by the
Federal Reserve Board, bank holding companies to acquire either control of, or
substantial assets of, a bank located outside the bank holding company's home
state.  These acquisitions are subject to limitations which are mentioned in the
discussion on "Interstate Banking".  The Riegle-Neal Act reaffirms the right of
states to segregate and tax separately incorporated subsidiaries of a bank or
bank holding company.  The Riegle-Neal Act also affects interstate branching and
merger.

The Federal Reserve Board is authorized to adopt regulations affecting various
aspects of bank holding companies.  Pursuant to the general supervisory
authority of the Bank Holding Company Act and directives set forth in the
International Lending Supervision Act of 1983, the Federal Reserve Board has
adopted capital adequacy guidelines prescribing both risk-based capital and
leverage ratios.







Regulatory Capital Requirements

Risk-Based Capital Guidelines

The Federal Reserve Board established risk-based capital guidelines for bank
holding companies effective March 15, 1989.  The guidelines define Tier I
Capital and Total Capital.  Tier I Capital consists of common and qualifying
preferred shareholders' equity and minority interests in equity accounts of
consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and 50% (and in some cases up to 100%)
of investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries.  Total Capital consists of Tier I
Capital plus qualifying mandatory convertible debt, perpetual debt, certain
hybrid capital instruments, certain preferred stock not qualifying as Tier I
Capital, subordinated and other qualifying term debt up to specified limits, and
a portion of the allowance for credit losses, less investments in unconsolidated
subsidiaries and in other designated subsidiaries or other associated companies
at the discretion of the Federal Reserve Board, certain intangible assets, a
portion of limited-life capital instruments approaching maturity and reciprocal
holdings of banking organizations' capital instruments. The Tier I component
must constitute at least 50% of qualifying Total Capital.

Risk-based capital ratios are calculated with reference to risk-weighted assets,
which include both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposures. The
risk-based capital framework contains four risk-weighted categories for bank
holding company assets -- 0%, 20%, 50%, and 100%.  Zero percent risk-weighted
assets include, inter alia, cash and balances due from Federal Reserve Banks,
and obligations unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government or its
agencies.  Twenty percent risk-weighted assets include, inter alia, claims on
U.S. Banks and obligations guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored agencies as
well as general obligations of states or other political subdivisions of the
United States.  Fifty percent risk-weighted assets include, inter alia, loans
fully secured by first liens on one to-four-family residential properties,
subject to certain conditions.  All assets not included in the foregoing
categories are assigned to the 100% risk-weighted category, including loans to
commercial and other borrowers.  As of year-end 1992, the minimum required ratio
for qualifying Total Capital became 8%, of which at least 4% must consist of
Tier I Capital.  At December 31, 1994, the Company's Tier I and Total Capital
ratios were 11.81% and 14.96%, respectively.

The current risk-based capital ratio analysis establishes minimum supervisory
guidelines and standards.  It does not evaluate all factors affecting an
organization's financial condition.  Factors which are not evaluated include (i)
overall interest rate exposure; (ii) liquidity, funding, and market risks; (iii)
quality and level of earnings; (iv) investment or loan portfolio concentrations;
(v) quality of loans and investments; (vi) the effectiveness of loan and
investment policies; (vii) certain risks arising from nontraditional activities;
and (viii) management's overall ability to monitor and control other financial
and operating risks, including the risks presented by concentrations of credit
and nontraditional activities.  The capital adequacy assessment of federal bank
regulators will, however, continue to include analyses of the foregoing
considerations and in particular, the level and severity of problem and
classified assets.

Minimum Leverage Ratio

On June 20, 1990, the Federal Reserve Board adopted new capital standards and
leverage capital guidelines that include a minimum leverage ratio of 3% Tier I
Capital to total assets (the "leverage ratio").  The leverage ratio is used in
tandem with the final risk-based ratio of 8% that took effect at the end of
1992.

The Federal Reserve Board has emphasized that the leverage ratio constitutes a
minimum requirement for well-run banking organizations having well-diversified
risk, including no undue interest rate exposure, excellent asset quality, high
liquidity, good earnings, and a composite rating of 1 under the Interagency Bank
Rating System.  Banking organizations experiencing or anticipating significant
growth, as well as those organizations which do not exhibit the characteristics
of a strong, well-run banking organization described above, will be required to
maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory
levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the
Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it will consider a "tangible Tier I
Capital Leverage Ratio" (deducting all intangibles) and other indices of capital
strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.  At December
31, 1994, the Company's Tier I leverage ratio was 6.24%.







The Federal Reserve Board has adopted amendments to its capital guidelines,
effective as of December 31, 1994, under which bank holding companies and state
member banks must deduct from Tier I Capital in calculating risk-based capital
and leverage ratios net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity
securities (i.e., those securities a bank does not have the positive interest
and ability to hold to maturity, but which it has no intent to trade as a part
of a trading account).  Implementation of this amendment to the Federal Reserve
Board's capital guidelines has not resulted in a material increase in the
capital requirement applicable to it.  The Federal Reserve Board has also
adopted a final rule amending its capital guidelines effective April 1, 1995,
limiting the amount of certain deferred tax assets that may be included by bank
holding companies and member banks in Tier I Capital for calculation of
risk-based capital and leverage ratios.  Zions Bancorporation does not
anticipate that implementation of this amendment to the Federal Reserve Board's
capital guidelines will result in a material increase in the capital
requirements applicable to it.  The Federal Reserve Board has also recently
published proposed amendments to its risk-based capital guidelines which, if
adopted in their current form, would generally increase the amount of capital
required to be carried against certain long-term derivative contracts; the
proposal also recognizes the effect of certain bilateral netting arrangements in
reducing potential future exposure under these contracts.  Until the proposed
amendments are adopted in final form by the Federal Reserve Board, Zions
Bancorporation cannot predict their effect upon the capital requirements
applicable to it.

Other Issues and Developments Relating to Regulatory Capital

Pursuant to such authority and directives set forth in the International Lending
Supervision Act of 1983, the Comptroller, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve
Board have issued regulations establishing the capital requirements for banks
under federal law.  The regulations, which apply to Zions Bancorporation's
banking subsidiaries, establish minimum risk-based and leverage ratios which are
substantially similar to those applicable to the Company.  As of December 31,
1994, the risk-based and leverage ratios of each of Zions Bancorporation's
banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum requirements.

On December 19, 1991, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991 ("FDICIA") was signed into law.  FDICIA subjects banks to significantly
increased regulation and supervision.  Among other things, FDICIA requires
federal bank regulatory authorities to revise, prior to June 19, 1993, their
risk-based capital guidelines to ensure that those standards take account of
interest rate risk, concentrations of credit, and the risk of nontraditional
activities, as well as reflect the actual performance and risk of multifamily
mortgages.

Pursuant to the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of
1994 (the "Riegle-Neal Act"), signed into law on September 23, 1994, such
revisions by the federal banking agencies to their risk-based capital guidelines
must also take account of the size and activities of insured institutions and
not cause undue reporting burdens to them.  The manner of implementation by the
FDIC of this requirement mandated by FDICIA, as modified by the Riegle Act, is
described below:

    (i)    In 1993 and 1994, the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and the
           FDIC adopted rules which assigned a 50% risk weight for loans that
           are fully secured by  multifamily residential property and do not
           exceed 80% of the property's value.  To be eligible for the 50% risk
           weight, the property's annual net operating income must be 120% of
           the amount to the annual debt service and the loan must be amortized
           within 30 years.  The principal and interest payments must be made on
           a timely basis for one year before the 50% risk weight may be applied
           and the loan must provide for principal repayment beginning within
           seven years of the date of the loan.  Implementation of these rules
           have not had a material adverse effect upon the capital requirements
           applicable to Zions Bancorporation or upon those applicable to its
           bank subsidiaries.

    (ii)   The federal banking agencies have adopted rules, effective January
           17, 1995, under which they will take account of risks from
           concentrations of credit (in specific countries, region, industries
           and loan types) and from nontraditional activities in their analyses
           of capital adequacy of state nonmember banks.  Pursuant to the rule,
           in such institutions are required to identify, monitor and control,
           significant exposures from concentrations of credit and from
           nontraditional activities, and hold additional capital above the
           regulatory minimums to reflect such risks.  The level of such risks,
           as well as an institution's ability to identify, monitor and control
           them, will be considered by the federal banking agencies in
           determining the capital adequacy of the institution.  Zions
           Bancorporation does not anticipate the implementation of this rule
           will result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to
           it or upon those applicable to its bank subsidiaries.







    (iii)  On September 14, 1993, the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and
           the FDIC published in the Federal Register a proposed measure of
           interest rate risk exposure which measures such exposure as the
           effect that a specified change in market interest rates would have on
           the net economic value of banks. Under this proposal, banks
           (excluding certain "low risk" institutions as defined therein) would
           calculate and report estimated changes in their net economic value
           resulting from the effect of specified changes in market interest
           rates on their assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions,
           utilizing either a supervisory model or approved internal models. The
           proposal sets forth two alternative methods for utilizing such
           results in assessing institutions' capital adequacy for interest rate
           risk exposure.  One method would require institutions to hold capital
           equal to the dollar decline in their net economic value exceeding a
           supervisory threshold of one percent of total assets; the other
           method provides for an agency assessment of institutions' capital
           needs for interest rate risk in light of both the level of measured
           interest rate risk exposure and qualitative factors. However, the
           proposal is still under consideration.  Because the final terms of
           the regulators' implementation of this requirement of FDICIA are not
           yet known, Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the effect the
           inclusion of interest rate risk factors in the risk-based capital
           rules of the federal banking agencies will have upon capital
           requirements applicable to it or its bank subsidiaries.

FDICIA amended Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require the
federal banking regulators to take "prompt corrective action" in respect of
banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements and imposes certain
restrictions upon banks which meet minimum capital requirements but are not
"well-capitalized" for purposes of FDICIA.  FDICIA establishes five capital
tiers:  "well- capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized,"
"significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized."

Implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies in September
1992 and effective on December 19, 1992 define the capital categories for banks
which will determine the necessity for prompt corrective actions by the federal
banking agencies.  A bank may be placed in a capitalization category that is
lower than is indicated by its capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory
examination rating with respect to certain matters.

Under the regulations, a "well-capitalized" institution has a minimum total
capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 10 percent, a minimum
Tier I capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6 percent, a
minimum leverage ratio of at least 5 percent, and is not subject to any written
order, agreement, or directive; an "adequately capitalized" institution has a
total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 8 percent, a Tier
I capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 4 percent, and a
leverage ratio of at least 4 percent (3 percent if given the highest regulatory
rating and not experiencing significant growth), but does not qualify as
"well-capitalized.  An "undercapitalized" institution fails to meet any one of
the three minimum capital requirements.  A "significantly undercapitalized"
institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than
6 percent, a Tier I capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than 3
percent or a Tier I leverage ratio of less than 3 percent.  A "critically
undercapitalized" institution has a Tier I leverage ratio of 2 percent or less.
Under certain circumstances, a "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," or
"undercapitalized" institution may be required to comply with supervisory
actions as if the institution was in the next lowest capital category.

Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of
restrictions and enforcement remedies.  Under FDICIA, all insured banks are
generally prohibited from making any capital distributions and from paying
management fees to persons having control of the bank where such payments would
cause the bank to be undercapitalized.  Holding companies of significantly
undercapitalized, critically undercapitalized and certain undercapitalized banks
may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before
paying capital distributions to their shareholders.   Moreover, a bank that is
not well-capitalized is generally subject to various restrictions on "pass
through" insurance coverage for certain of its accounts and is generally
prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on any
deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area
or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited).  Such banks and
their holding companies are also required to obtain regulatory approval prior to
their retention of senior executive officers.  Banks which are classified
undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized
are required to submit capital restoration plans satisfactory to their federal
banking regulator and guaranteed within stated limits by companies having
control of such banks (i.e., to the extent of the lesser of five percent of the
institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount
necessary to bring the institution into compliance with all applicable capital
standards as of the time the institution fails to comply with its capital
restoration plan, until the institution is adequately capitalized on average
during each of four consecutive calendar quarters), and are subject to
regulatory monitoring and various restrictions on their operations and
activities, including those upon asset growth, acquisitions, branching and entry
into new lines of business and may be required to divest themselves of or
liquidate subsidiaries under certain circumstances.  Holding companies of such
institutions may be required to divest themselves of such institutions or divest
themselves of or liquidate nondepository affiliates under certain circumstances.
Critically undercapitalized institutions are also prohibited from making
payments of principal and interest on debt subordinated to the claims of general
creditors and are generally subject to the mandatory appointment of a
conservator or receiver.







Other Regulations

FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to adopt regulations prescribing
standards for safety and soundness of insured banks and their holding companies,
including standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal
audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure,
asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality, earnings and stock
valuation, as well as other operational and managerial standards deemed
appropriate by the agencies.  Upon a determination by a federal banking agency
that an insured bank has failed to satisfy any such standard, the bank will be
required to file an acceptable plan to correct the deficiency.  If the bank
fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, the federal banking agency may,
and in some instances must, issue an order requiring the institution to correct
the deficiency, restrict its asset growth, increase its ratio of tangible equity
to assets, or impose other operating restrictions.  The Riegle Act modified this
provision of FDICIA to authorize the federal banking agencies to prescribe
safety and soundness standards by regulation or by guidelines for all insured
depository institutions, afford the federal banking agencies flexibility to
establish asset quality, earnings and stock valuation standards that they
determine to be appropriate and eliminate the requirement that such standards
apply to depository institution holding companies.  On February 2, 1995, the
Federal Reserve Board agreed to seek (and Zions Bancorporation believes the
other federal banking agencies will soon seek) public comment on proposed
guidelines applicable to state member banks setting forth asset quality,
earnings and stock valuation standards, final guidelines with respect to all
other standards required under FDICIA and a final rule establishing deadlines
and procedures for submission and review of safety and soundness compliance
plans and issuance of compliance orders.  In the view of the Federal Reserve
Board, the proposed and final standards, respectively, do not represent a change
in existing policies but, instead, formalize fundamental standards already
applied by the agencies.  In general, the standards establish objectives of
proper operations and management while leaving the specific methods for
achieving those objectives to each institution.  The final rule implements the
requirements of FDICIA regarding the submission and review of safety and
soundness plans by institutions failing to meet the prescribed standards and the
issuance of orders where institutions have failed to submit acceptable
compliance plans or implement and accepted plan in any material respect.  Zions
Bancorporation does not believe that implementation of the final guidelines and
rule will have a material adverse effect upon the operations or earnings of its
bank subsidiaries.  Until final guidelines prescribing asset quality, earnings
and stock valuation standards are adopted by the federal banking agencies, Zions
Bancorporation cannot predict the effect of their application to its operations
or earnings or the operations or earnings of its subsidiaries.

FDICIA also contains provisions which, among other things, restrict investments
and activities as principal by state nonmember banks to those eligible for
national banks, impose limitations on deposit account balance determinations for
the purpose of the calculation of interest, and require the federal banking
regulators to prescribe, implement, or modify standards, respectively, for
extensions of credit secured by liens on interests in real estate or made for
the purpose of financing construction of a building or other improvements to
real estate, loans to bank insiders, regulatory accounting and reports, internal
control reports, independent audits, exposure on interbank liabilities,
contractual arrangements under which institutions receive goods, products or
services, deposit account-related disclosures and advertising, as well as to
impose restrictions on Federal Reserve discount window advances for certain
institutions and to require that insured depository institutions generally be
examined on-site by federal or state personnel at least every 12 months.

In connection with an institutional failure or FDIC rescue of a financial
institution, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of
1989 ("FIRREA") grants to the FDIC the right, in many situations, to charge its
actual or anticipated losses against commonly controlled depository institution
affiliates of the failed or rescued institution (although not against a bank
holding company itself).  FIRREA also explicitly allows bank holding companies
to acquire healthy as well as troubled savings associations (including savings
and loan associations and federal savings banks) under Section 4 of the Bank
Holding Company Act.  In connection with this authorization, the Federal Reserve
Board has been instructed not to impose so-called "tandem operating
restrictions" which might otherwise limit the joint marketing or joint
operations of affiliated banks and thrifts beyond those restrictions otherwise
embodied in law.  FIRREA also relieves bank holding companies that own savings
associations of certain duplicative or intrusive savings and loan holding
company regulations and, in some instances, allows savings associations that
have been acquired by bank holding companies to merge into affiliated banks or
become banks.

On October 28, 1992, the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 was
enacted which, inter alia, modified prior law regarding the establishment of
compensation standards by the federal banking agencies, deposit account
disclosures, loans to bank insiders and real estate appraisal requirements; made
certain technical corrections to FDICIA; imposed new sanctions upon banks
convicted of money laundering or cash transaction reporting offenses; and
restricted the methods banks may employ to calculate and refund prepaid interest
on mortgage refinancing and consumer loans.  In addition, on October 23, 1992,
the Depository Institutions Disaster Relief Act of 1992 was enacted, affording
the federal banking agencies limited discretion to provide relief from certain
regulatory requirements to depository institutions doing business or seeking to
do business in an emergency or major disaster area.  Zions Bancorporation does
not currently expect that the implication of these laws will have a material
adverse effect upon its operations and business or upon the operations and
business of its subsidiaries.







On August 10, 1993, the President signed into law the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993 which contains provisions that, inter alia, affect
the amortization of intangible assets by banks, require securities dealers
(including banks) to adopt mark-to-market accounting to calculate income taxes,
transfer surplus funds from the Federal Reserve System to the Department of the
Treasury, authorize the United States government to originate student loans and
establish a preference for depositors in liquidations of FDIC-insured banks.
Zions Bancorporation does not currently expect that the implementation of these
laws will have a material adverse effect upon its earnings or capital position
or the earnings or capital position of its subsidiaries.

The Riegle Act, in addition to enacting measures intended to increase credit
available to businesses in distressed communities (by providing incentives to
lenders to provide credit in those communities), remove impediments to the
securitization of small business loans, improve the National Flood Insurance
Program and strengthen enforcement against money laundering, mandates
modifications to federal laws and regulations affecting banks and bank holding
companies in an attempt to reduce regulatory and administrative burdens on these
entities (including the modifications to requirements mandated by FDICIA noted
previously).  These changes include, inter alia, requirements that federal
banking agencies consider the burden and benefits which may affect insured
depository institutions and their customers when establishing the effective
dates of certain new regulations or imposing certain new administrative
compliance requirements, that certain new federal regulations affecting
depository institutions and amendments to existing regulations take effect on
the first day of a calendar quarter and that federal banking agencies streamline
regulatory requirements and eliminate duplicative filings and coordinate
examinations of financial institutions.  The Riegle Act also provides for
simplified bank holding company formation and bank and bank holding company
merger application procedures, modified insider lending rules and capital rules
applicable to assets transferred with recourse.  Because all provisions of the
Riegle Act have not been implemented, Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the
effect of these changes upon its operations or upon those of its subsidiaries.

The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requires banks to help serve the credit
needs in their communities, including credit to low and moderate income
individuals and geographies.  Should the Company or its subsidiaries fail to
adequately serve the community, there are penalties which might be given.
Corporate applications to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and
affiliates, and merge with or purchase other financial institutions could be
denied.  Community groups are encouraged through the regulation to protest
applications for any bank subject to this regulation if they feel that the bank
is not serving the credit needs of the community in which it serves.  The
Company and its subsidiaries have been deemed by regulators in the past to be
adequately serving its communities.  A proposed revision to CRA is now being
considered by the regulators.  Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the effect
that proposed changes, if adopted, would have on its operations and upon those
of its subsidiaries.

The nature of the banking and financial services industry, as well as banking
regulation, may be further affected by various legislative and regulatory
measures currently under consideration.  Such measures include, inter alia,
legislation designed to permit increased affiliations between commercial and
financial firms (including securities firms) and federally-insured banks, reduce
regulatory burdens on financial institutions, impose a moratorium on the
application of federal regulations and establish standards for federal
supervision of derivative activities of insured institutions.  It is impossible
to predict whether or in what form these proposals may be adopted in the future
and, if adopted, what the effect of their adoption will be on Zions
Bancorporation or its subsidiaries.

There are many other regulations requiring detailed compliance procedures which
increase costs and require additional time commitments of employees. Regulators
and the Congress continue to put in place rules and laws to protect consumers,
which have a cumulative additional impact on the cost of doing business.  At
this point, management cannot completely assess how much earnings might be
reduced from these consumer laws.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

The insured bank subsidiaries of Zions Bancorporation are required to pay
semi-annual deposit insurance assessments to the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF").
FDICIA requires the FDIC to establish a schedule to increase the reserve ratio
of the BIF to 1.25% of insured deposits (or such higher ratio as the FDIC
determines to be justified for any year by circumstances raising a significant
risk of substantial future losses) over a 15-year period, and to increase the
assessment rate on banks, if necessary, to achieve that ratio.  FDICIA also
requires the FDIC to establish  a risk-based assessment system for deposit
insurance which will take into account the probability that the deposit
insurance fund will incur a loss with respect to an institution, the likely
amount of such loss and the revenue needs of the deposit insurance fund.







The FDIC revised, effective October 1, 1993, its deposit insurance regulation to
establish a permanent risk-based assessment system.  Each insured bank's
insurance assessment rate is determined by the risk assessment classification
into which it has been placed by the FDIC.  The FDIC places each insured bank in
one of nine risk assessment classifications based upon its level of capital and
supervisory evaluations by its regulators: "well-capitalized" banks, "adequately
capitalized" banks or "less-than-adequately capitalized" banks, with each
category of banks divided into subcategories of banks which are either
"healthy," of "supervisory concern" or of "substantial supervisory concern."  An
eight-basis point spread exists between the assessment rate established for the
highest and lowest risk classification, so that banks classified as strongest by
the FDIC are subject to a rate of .23% (the same rate as under the previous
flat-rate assessment system) while those classified as weakest by the FDIC are
subject to a rate of .31% (with intermediate rates of .26,%, .29%, and .30%).
The FDIC is authorized to increase assessment rates beyond those currently in
effect if, in the judgment of its Board of Directors, the condition of the BIF
so requires.  The FDIC also possesses authority to impose special assessments
from time to time.  Implementation of the permanent risk-based deposit insurance
assessment system has not had a material adverse impact on the financial
condition or results of operations of Zions Bancorporation or upon those of its
bank subsidiaries.

Premiums paid to the FDIC have been an increasing burden on bank earnings.  In
recognition of this trend, the FDIC may, when the BIF reaches a target ratio of
1.25% of insured deposits, reduce insurance premiums.  The Board of Directors of
the FDIC is currently considering a  proposal under which the assessment rate
payable by the healthiest banks would be reduced from .23% to .04% as such time
as the target ratio is achieved; other assessment rates, depending on an
institution's supervisory risk group, would be .07%, .14%, .21%, .28% and .31%.
The proposal would also establish a procedure for adjusting assessment rates
semiannually within a range of up to five basis points without seeking public
comment.  The FDIC is also considering whether the deposit assessment base,
against which the applicable assessment rate is multiplied in determining the
deposit insurance assessment to be paid by each insured institution, should be
redefined in light of the adoption of the risk-based assessment system and
certain statutory and other developments effecting  insured depository
institutions.  Currently, the assessment base is defined to include the total
domestic deposits of each insured institution as adjusted for certain elements.
Depending upon the nature of the changes, if any, made by the FDIC to the
definition of the assessment base, the aggregate liabilities of each insured
institution subject to assessment could increase or could be reduced, or an
assessment base consisting of other than bank liabilities could be adopted,
thereby potentially affecting the earning of each institution.  Until the nature
of the changes to be adopted by the FDIC to the assessment base definition are
known, Zions Bancorporation cannot predict their effect upon its overall
financial condition or results of operations or upon those of its bank
subsidiaries.

Interstate Banking

Existing laws and various regulatory developments have allowed financial
institutions to conduct significant activities on an interstate basis for a
number of years.  During recent years, a number of financial institutions have
expanded their out-of-state activities and various states have enacted
legislation intended to allow certain interstate banking combinations which
otherwise would be prohibited by federal law.

Under the laws of Utah, Nevada, an Arizona, respectively, any out-of-state bank
or bank holding company may acquire a Utah, Nevada, or Arizona bank or bank
holding company upon the approval of the bank supervisor of the state.  There is
no requirement that the laws of the state in which the out-of-state bank or bank
holding company's operations are principally conducted afford reciprocal
privileges to Utah-, Nevada - or Arizona-based acquirers.

The Riegle-Neal Act dramatically affects interstate banking activities.  As
discussed previously, the Riegle-Neal Act allows the Federal Reserve Board to
approve the acquisition by a bank holding company of control or substantial
assets of a bank located outside the bank holding company's home state as of
September 29, 1995.  Beginning on June 1, 1997, and earlier if permitted by
applicable state law, an insured bank may apply to the appropriate federal
agency for permission to merge with an out-of-state bank and convert its offices
into branches of the resulting bank.  States retain the option to prohibit
out-of-state mergers if they enact a statute specifically barring such mergers
before June 1, 1997 and such law applies equally to all out-of-state banks.

Interstate mergers authorized by the Riegle-Neal Act are subject to conditions
and requirements, including, inter alia, adequate capitalization and management
of the acquiring bank or bank holding company, existence of the acquired bank
for up to five years before purchase where required under state law, and
limitations on control by the acquiring bank holding company of not more than
10% of the total amount of deposits in insured depository institutions in the
United States or not more than 30% of the deposits in insured depository
institutions within that state.  States may impose lower deposit concentration
limits, so long as those limits apply to all bank holding companies equally.
Additional requirements placed on mergers include conformity with state law
branching requirements and compliance with "host state" merger filing
requirements to the extent that those requirements do not discriminate against
out-of-state banks or out-of-state bank holding companies.







The Riegle-Neal Act also permits banks to establish and operate a "de novo
branch" in any state that expressly permits all out-of-state banks to establish
de novo branches in such state, if the law applies equally to all banks.  (A "de
novo branch" is a branch office of a national bank or state bank that is
originally established as a branch and does not become a branch as a result of
an acquisition, conversion, merger, or consolidation.)  Utilization of this
authority is conditioned upon satisfaction of most of the conditions applicable
to interstate mergers under the Riegle-Neal Act, including, inter alia, adequate
capitalization and management of the branching institution, satisfaction with
certain filing and notice requirements imposed under state law and receipt of
federal regulatory approvals.

Because important components of the Riegle-Neal Act have not yet become
effective, Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the effects of the Act's
implementation upon its operations or earnings or upon those of its
subsidiaries.

The commercial banking subsidiaries are supervised and regularly examined by
various federal and state regulatory agencies.  Deposits, reserves, investments,
loans, consumer law compliance, issuance of securities, payment of dividends,
mergers and consolidations, electronic funds transfers, management practices,
and other aspects of operations are subject to regulation.  In addition,
numerous federal, state, and local regulations set forth specific restrictions
and procedural requirements with respect to the extension of credit, credit
practices, the disclosure of credit terms, and discrimination in credit
transactions.  The various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their
examination process, periodically review the banking subsidiaries' allowances
for loan losses.  Such agencies may require the banking subsidiaries to
recognize additions to such allowances based on their judgments using
information available to them at the time of their examinations.

As a consequence of the extensive regulation of the commercial banking business,
the Company cannot yet assess the impact of these legislative and regulatory
mandates on the commercial banking industry which may increase the cost of doing
business that are not required of the industry's nonbank competitors.

Federal and state legislation affecting the banking industry have played, and
will continue to play, a significant role in shaping the nature of the financial
service industry.  Various legislation, including proposals to overhaul the
banking regulatory system and to limit the investments that a depository
institution may make with insured funds, is from time to time introduced.  The
Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that FDICIA and the implementing
regulations to be adopted thereunder, or any other potential legislation, if
enacted, would have upon its financial condition or operations.

In addition, there are cases pending before federal and state courts that seek
to expand or restrict interpretations of existing laws and their accompanying
regulations affecting bank holding companies and their subsidiaries.  It is not
possible to predict the extent to which Zions Bancorporation and its
subsidiaries may be affected by any of these initiatives.

Government Monetary Policies and Economic Controls

The earnings and business of the Company are affected by general economic
conditions.  In addition, fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various
regulatory authorities of the United States and by agencies can have important
consequences on the financial performance of the Company.  The Company is
particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board which
regulate the national supply of bank credit.  The instruments of monetary policy
available to the Federal Reserve Board include open-market operations in United
States government securities; changing the discount rates of member bank
borrowings; imposing or changing reserve requirements against member bank
deposits; and imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain
borrowings by banks and their affiliates.  These methods are used in varying
combinations to influence the overall growth of bank loans, investments and
deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits.

However, in view of changing conditions in the economy and the effect of the 
credit policies of monetary authorities, it is difficult to predict future 
changes in loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on 
the business and earnings of Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries.  
Federal Reserve Board monetary policies have had a significant effect on the 
operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue
to do so in the future.







Competition

Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly competitive
environment.  The banking subsidiaries compete with other banks, thrift
institutions, credit unions and money market, and other mutual funds for
deposits and other sources of funds.  In addition, Zions Bancorporation and its
bank and nonbank subsidiaries face increased competition with respect to the
diverse financial services and products they offer.  Competitors include not
only other banks, thrift institutions, and mutual funds, but also leasing
companies, finance companies, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, and
a variety of other financial services and advisory companies.  Many of these
competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as are bank
holding companies and banks such as Zions Bancorporation and its banking
subsidiaries.

The Company expects that competitive conditions will continue to intensify as a
result of technological advances.  Technological advances have, for example,
made it possible for nondepository institutions to offer customers automatic
transfer systems and other automated-payment systems services that have been
traditional banking products.

Employees

The Company employs approximately 2,754 full- and part-time people with
approximately 2,573 being employed by the banking subsidiaries.  The Company had
2,695 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 1994, compared to 2,761 at
December 31, 1993.  Banking subsidiaries had 2,506 full-time equivalent
employees at the end of 1994, compared to 2,573 a year earlier.  The Company
believes that it enjoys good employee relations.  In addition to competitive
salaries and wages, Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries contribute to
group medical plans, group insurance plans, pension, stock ownership and profit
sharing plans.

Supplementary Information

The following supplementary information, which is required under Guide 3
(Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies), is found in this report on
the pages indicated below, and should be read in conjunction with the related
financial statements and notes thereto.



ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES

In Utah, fifty (50) of Zions First National Bank's eighty-six (86) offices are
located in buildings owned by the Company and the other thirty-six (36) are on
leased premises.  In Nevada, four (4) of Nevada State Bank's twenty-one (21)
offices are located in buildings owned and the other seventeen (17) are on
leased premises, and in Arizona, National Bank of Arizona owns three (3) offices
and leases seven (7) offices.  The annual rentals under long-term leases for
such banking premises are determined under various formulas and include as
various factors, operating costs, maintenance and taxes.







Zions Bancorporation is lessee under a 25-year lease, of  which 23 years have
expired, of a 14-story building in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah.  The Company's
subsidiaries have  leased the ground floor and two other floors.  The J.C.
Penney Company, Inc., has subleased nine floors for offices.  The remaining two
floors are sublet to various tenants.

The Company's subsidiaries conducting lease financing, insurance, mortgage
servicing, and discount brokerage activities operate from leased premises.

For information regarding rental payments, see note 9 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, which appears in Part II, Item 8, on page 57 of this
report.

ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

During 1988, a lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court, Utah
District, against Zions First National Bank in connection with its performance
of duties as an indenture trustee for certain investors in real estate and other
syndication projects.  In September 1992, a motion was granted allowing an
amended complaint containing allegations that plaintiffs intend to proceed as a
class action to recover approximately $23 million, prejudgment interest,
attorneys' fees, and additional amounts under certain statutory provisions and
common law.  No motion to certify the classes has been filed, and the Bank
intends to vigorously oppose such motion and to defend the entire action.
Although no assurances can be given as to the outcome, the Company continues to
believe that it has meritorious defenses to such lawsuit, and that there is
insurance coverage for a substantial portion of the amount claimed.

The Company is also the defendant in various other legal proceedings arising in
the normal course of business.  The Company does not believe that the outcome of
any of such proceedings, including the lawsuit discussed in the preceding
paragraph, will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
position.

ITEM 4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1994.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages, positions, and backgrounds of the Company's executive officers
as of February 27, 1995, are set forth as follows:











PART II

ITEM 5.      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

Principal market where common stock is traded:

Nasdaq         National Market          Symbol "ZION"

High and low bid quotations on quarterly basis for past three years:





Number of common shareholders of record as of latest practicable date:

3,926 common shareholders as of February 27, 1995

Frequency and amount of dividends paid during three years:



Description of any restrictions on the issuer's present or future ability to
pay dividends:

Funds for the payment of dividends by Zions Bancorporation have been obtained
primarily from dividends paid by the commercial banking and other subsidiaries.
In addition to certain statutory limitations on the payment of dividends,
approval of federal and/or state banking regulators may be required in some
instances for any dividend to Zions Bancorporation by its banking subsidiaries.
The payment of future dividends therefore is dependent upon earnings and the
financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries as well as other
factors.







ITEM 6.      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data is derived from the audited
consolidated financial statements of the Company.  It should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and the related
notes and with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations and other detailed information included elsewhere herein.

(Dollars in thousands, except per share and ratio data)





ITEM 7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of
operations as of and for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the
Company and detailed information presented elsewhere herein.

OPERATING RESULTS

Zions Bancorporation's consolidated net income rose to $63.8 million in 1994 as
compared to net income of $58.2 million in 1993 and $47.2 million in 1992. Net
income per common share in 1994 was $4.37 as compared to $4.08 in 1993 and $3.42
in 1992. Financial results have been restated for prior periods to reflect the
pooling-of-interests acquisition of National Bancorp of Arizona during the first
quarter of 1994. Earnings results for 1993 were positively affected in the net
amount of $1,659,000 or $.12 per share due to the cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles implemented during the first quarter of the year. The
Company's earnings for the year ended December 31, 1993 were also negatively
affected by a one-time expense of $6,022,000 included in noninterest expenses
related to early extinguishment of certain long-term debt.

The earnings results for 1994 represent a historic high for income before income
taxes and net income. Some of the factors affecting the increase in earnings
(excluding the aforementioned net benefit resulting from the cumulative effect
of changes in accounting principles and the expense relating to the early
extinguishment of debt) were a $23.9 million (13.7%) increase in net interest
income, a $.8 million (27.1%) decrease in the provision for loan losses, a $1.2
million (5.2%) increase in service charges on deposit accounts and a $.6 million
(2.9%) increase in service charges, commissions and fees. These increased
contributions to income were partially offset by a $1.5 million (63.4%) decrease
in trading account income, a $6.9 million (32.0%) decrease in loan sales and
servicing income, a $7.8 million (9.1%) increase in salaries and benefits, a
$3.2 million (34.8%) increase in furniture and equipment expense, a $2.2 million
(3.2%) increase in all remaining noninterest expenses, and a $1.3 million (4.6%)
increase in income taxes.

EARNINGS PERFORMANCE

Net Interest Income, Margin, and Interest Rate Spreads

Net interest income is the difference between the total interest income
generated by earning assets and the total interest cost of the funds used to
finance assets. Net interest income is the largest component of the Company's
revenue. The Company's taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by 13.8%
to $203.3 million in 1994 as compared to $178.6 million in 1993. The increased
level of taxable-equivalent net interest income was influenced primarily by the
increase in average earning assets. The Company attempts to minimize interest
rate movement sensitivity through the management of interest rate maturities,
and to a lesser extent, the use of off-balance sheet arrangements such as
interest rate caps, floors, and interest rate exchange contract agreements.
During 1994, the Company had income, net of expense, of $967,000 from the use of
such off-balance sheet arrangements compared to $291,000 in 1993 and $9,000 in
1992. The Company intends to continue to use such off-balance sheet arrangements
to the extent necessary to minimize its exposure to changes in prevailing
interest rates.

Net interest margin is a measure of the Company's ability to generate net
interest income and is computed by expressing net interest income (stated on a
fully taxable-equivalent basis) as a percentage of earning assets. The Company's
net interest margin was 4.07% for 1994 as compared to 4.23% in 1993. The
decrease in the margin was due primarily to securitized sales of loans and the
expansion of investments in security resell agreements. Securitized sales of
loans convert net interest income from loans to noninterest income. The security
resell agreements are primarily in U.S. government and U.S. government agency
securities which offer low yields but represent low risk to the Company and
requires lower consolidated "risk-based" capital. The Company decreased its
activity in security resell arrangements during the fourth quarter of 1994.

The spread on average interest-bearing funds is the difference between the yield
on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing funds. The Company's spread
on average interest-bearing funds was 3.49% for 1994 as compared to 3.71% in
1993. The spread on average interest-bearing funds has also been reduced by
securitized sales of loans and investment in security resell arrangements.

Consolidated average balances, the amount of interest earned or paid, the
applicable interest rate for the various categories of earning assets and
interest-bearing funds which represent the components of net interest income for
the year 1994 and the previous four years; and interest differentials on a
taxable-equivalent basis and the effect on net interest income of changes due to
volume and rates for the years 1994 and 1993, are shown in tables on pages which
follow. Income computed on a taxable-equivalent basis is income adjusted to make
income and earning yields on assets exempt from income taxes comparable to other
taxable income. The incremental tax rate used for calculating the
taxable-equivalent adjustment was 30% in 1994 and 32% in 1993 and each of the
years prior.





Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Shareholders' Equity,
Average Balance Sheets, Yields and Rates


(1)    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.
(2)    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs.  Loans include
       nonaccrual and restructured loans.





Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Shareholders' Equity,
Average Balance Sheets, Yields And Rates



(1)    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.
(2)    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs.  Loans include
       nonaccrual and restructured loans.




Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Shareholders' Equity,
Average Balance Sheets, Yields And Rates



(1)    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.
(2)    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs.  Loans include
       nonaccrual and restructured loans.




Analysis of Interest Changes Due to Volume and Rates



(1)    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.
(2)    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs.  Loans include
       nonaccrual and restructured loans.

In the tables on the preceeding pages, the principal amounts of nonaccrual and
renegotiated loans have been included in the average loan balances used to
determine the rate earned on loans. Interest income on nonaccrual loans is
included in income only to the extent that cash payments have been received and
not applied to principal and is accrued on restructured loans at the reduced
rates. Certain restructured loan agreements call for additional interest to be
paid on a deferred or contingent basis. Such interest is taken into income only
as collected.

In the analysis of interest changes due to volume and rates, the changes due to
the volume/rate variance have been allocated to volume. When volume and rate
have both increased, the variance has been allocated proportionately to both
volume and rate, and when the rate has increased and volume has decreased, the
variance has been allocated to rate.





Provision For Loan Losses

The provision for loan losses in 1994 decreased by 27.1% to $2,181,000 in 1994
as compared to $2,993,000 in 1993, and $10,929,000 in 1992. The decrease in loan
loss provisions resulted from improved credit risk management and an improved
economy which have produced decreases in nonperforming assets.

Noninterest Income

The Company's noninterest income decreased by 8.4% to $73.2 million in 1994 as
compared to $79.9 million in 1993 and $62.8 million in 1992. Service charges on
deposits increased by 5.2% in 1994 to $24.1 million, primarily as a result of
price increases and higher volumes in 1994. Other service charges, commissions,
and fees increased by 2.9% in 1994 to $22.0 million primarily as a result of
increased fees relating to commercial loan originations. Such increased fees
were partially offset by a decline in fees generated through sales of investment
products through the Company's discount brokerage operations and personal
investment officers, as well as fees from mortgage loan originations during
1994. Trading account income decreased by 63.4% to $.9 million in 1994 as
compared to $2.4 million in 1993. Loan sales and servicing income decreased
32.0% to $14.6 million in 1994 primarily as a result of decreased income on real
estate loans sold in 1994 and lower excess servicing fees during 1994 on
securitized loans sold resulting from competitive pressures, particularly in the
indirect consumer loan market. The Company does not recognize an initial gain on
the sale of loans but recognizes the income over the servicing life of the sale.
Other income increased by 6.4% in 1994 to $7.6 million primarily as a result of
gains on the sale of mortgage-servicing rights.

The following table presents the components of noninterest income for the years
indicated and a year-to-year comparison expressed in terms of percent changes.

                                                         Noninterest Income



Noninterest Expenses

Noninterest expenses increased by 4.3% in 1994 to $174.9 million as compared to
$167.8 million in 1993, and $139.1 million in 1992. Salaries and employee
benefits increased by 9.1% in 1994 to $93.3 million, primarily as a result of
additional salaries and benefits from an acquisition accounted for as a
purchase; increased staffing in investment activities; general salary increases;
and bonuses, commissions, and profit sharing costs related to increased
profitability. Furniture and equipment expenses increased 34.8% in 1994 to $12.5
million, primarily as a result of the expansion of the ATM network and the
installation of personal computers and local area networks.

The Company benefited by a decrease of 119.6% in other real estate expense to
$(.1) million in 1994 as holding costs declined through the continued sales of
other real estate owned properties during 1994. Also, values received in the
sales of other real estate owned continued to improve in 1994. F.D.I.C. premiums
increased by 4.0% in 1994 to $7.5 million as compared to $7.3 million in 1993
due to higher deposit levels. Telecommunication costs increased 25.4% to $3.8
million as a result of acquisitions and the expansion of ATM and other networks.
All other expenses increased 5.9% to $27.6 million in 1994 as compared to $26.1
million in 1993 primarily due to increased ATM network service costs,
amortization of investments in community development companies and investment
activity expenses. The Company recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt
in the amount of $6.0 million during 1993. This expense consisted of marking to
market an interest rate exchange agreement entered into several years ago in
conjunction with the issuance of long term floating rate notes, and writing off
deferred costs associated with the notes and industrial revenue bonds redeemed.




The following table presents the components of noninterest expenses for the
years indicated and a year-to-year comparison expressed in terms of percent
changes.

                                                        Noninterest Expenses


The following table presents full-time equivalent employees and banking offices
at December 31, for the years indicated:

                         Full-Time Equivalent Employees



Income Taxes

The Company's income taxes increased 13.4% to $30.9 million in 1994 compared to
$27.2 million in 1993 and $22.9 million in 1992 primarily due to the increase in
income before income taxes. The Company's effective tax rate was 32.6% during
1994 as compared to 32.5% in 1993.





Quarterly Summary

The following table presents a summary of earnings and end-of-period balances by
quarter for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992:

             Summary of Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)









ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

Liquidity

Liquidity represents the Company's ability to provide adequate funds to meet its
financial obligations, including withdrawals by depositors, debt service
requirements and operating needs. Liquidity is primarily provided by the
regularly scheduled maturities of the Company's investment and loan portfolios.
In addition, the Company's liquidity is enhanced by the fact that cash, money
market securities, and liquid investments, net of short-term or "purchased"
liabilities and wholesale deposits, totaled $1,423.6 million or 41.3% of core
deposits at December 31, 1994.

The Company's core deposits, consisting of demand, savings, and money market
deposits, and small certificates of deposit, constituted 93.0% of total deposits
at December 31, 1994, as compared to 95.6% at December 31, 1993.

Maturing balances in loan portfolios provide flexibility in managing cash flows.
Maturity management of those funds is an important source of medium- to
long-term liquidity. The Company's ability to raise funds in the capital markets
through the "securitization" process and by debt issuances allows the Company to
take advantage of market opportunities to meet funding needs at reasonable cost.

The Company manages its liquidity position in order to assure its ability to
meet maturing obligations. Through an ongoing review of the Company's levels of
interest-sensitive assets and liabilities, efforts are made to structure
portfolios in such a way as to minimize the effects of fluctuating interest rate
levels on net interest income.

The parent company's cash requirements consist primarily of principal and
interest payments on its borrowings, dividend payments to shareholders, and cash
operating expenses. The parent company's cash needs are routinely satisfied
through payments by subsidiaries of dividends, proportionate shares of current
income taxes, management and other fees, and principal and interest payments on
subsidiary borrowings from the parent company.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

Interest rate sensitivity measures the Company's financial exposure to changes
in interest rates. Interest rate sensitivity is, like liquidity, affected by
maturities of assets and liabilities. Interest rate sensitivity is measured in
terms of "gaps," defined as the difference between volumes of assets and
liabilities whose interest rates are subject to reset within specified periods
of time, and "duration," a measure of the weighted average expected lives of the
cash flows from assets and liabilities.

The Company, through the management of interest rate "maturities" and the use of
off-balance sheet arrangements such as interest rate caps, floors, futures,
options, and interest rate exchange agreements, attempts to be reasonably close
to neutral. The Company's management exercises its best judgment in making
assumptions with respect to prepayments, early withdrawals and other
noncontrollable events in managing the Company's exposure to changes in interest
rates.

Information as to the Company's sensitivity is presented in a table that
follows. The interest rate gaps reported in the table arise when assets are
funded with liabilities having different repricing intervals, after considering
the effect of off-balance sheet hedging financial instruments. Since these gaps
are actively managed and change daily as the interest rate environment changes,
positions at the end of any period may not be reflective of the Company's
interest rate position in subsequent periods.




The following table presents information as to the Company's interest rate
sensitivity at December 31, 1994:

                    Maturities and Interest Rate Sensitivity
                              at December 31, 1994






Earning Assets

Average earning assets increased 18.3% to $4,990.4 million in 1994 as compared
to the 1993 level of $4,220.1 million and the 1992 level of $3,501.7 million.
Earning assets comprised 91.5% of total average assets in 1994 compared with
90.9% in 1993, with average loans representing 51.6% of earning assets in 1994
compared to 52.7% in 1993.

The volume of liquid money market investments increased 10.3% to $869.7 million
in 1994 from $788.7 million in 1993. Average securities increased 27.8% to
$1,545.7 million in 1994 from $1,209.2 million in 1993. Average loan volume
increased 15.9% to $2,575.0 million in 1994 as compared to $2,222.2 million in
1993.

The following table sets forth the composition of average earning assets for the
years indicated:

                             Average Earning Assets






Investment Securities Portfolio

Investment securities prior to December 31, 1993 were held to maturity and
carried at amortized cost. At December 31, 1993 the Company adopted SFAS No.
115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and
segregated the portfolio for securities held to maturity carried at amortized
cost, and securities available for sale carried at market. The following table
presents the Company's year-end investment securities portfolio.

                         Investment Securities Portfolio





Maturities and Average Yields of Investment Securities

The following table presents by maturity range and type of security, the average
yield of the investment portfolio at December 31, 1994. The average yield is
based on effective rates on amortized cost at the end of the year.

             Maturities and Average Yields of Investment Securities
                              at December 31, 1994



*  An effective tax rate of 30% was used to adjust tax-exempt securities yields
   to rates comparable to those on fully taxable securities.

At December 31, 1994, the value of the Accessor Funds Inc. and the Federal Home
Loan Bank of Seattle stock each exceeded ten percent of shareholders' equity.



Loan Portfolio

During 1994, the Company consummated securitized loan sales of SBA loans, home
equity loans, credit card receivables and automobile loans totaling
approximately $703.0 million leading to a $322.4 million net increase in
securitized receivables outstanding, excluding long-term residential mortgages.
After these sales, loans and leases at December 31, 1994 totaled $2,416.1
million, a slight decrease of 3.7% compared to $2,508.2 million at December 31,
1993. Loans held for sale, commercial, financial and agriculture loans, and
lease financing declined 54.4%, 3.2%, and .7%, respectively, while real estate
and consumer loans increased 3.6% and 3.3%, respectively.

The table below sets forth the amount of loans outstanding by type at December
31 for the years indicated:

                                 Loan Portfolio



The Company has no foreign loans in its loan portfolio.

Loans Serviced

In recent years, many banks and other financial institutions have had an
increasing tendency to "securitize" loans by pooling and selling them to
investors, with the servicing responsibilities and residual income in excess of
financing costs, servicing expenses, and loan losses accruing to the originating
institution. The securitization of receivables can assist an institution in
effectively utilizing its capital and enhancing its liquidity while at the same
time limiting its exposure to loss. The Company's participation in the
securitization process, as well as its participation in originating and selling
mortgage loans and student loans, has increased in recent years. During 1994,
the Company securitized and sold SBA 504 first mortgage loans totaling $43.7
million, home equity credit line receivables totaling $192.4 million, credit
card receivables totaling $163.1 million, and automobile loans totaling $303.8
million. At December 31, 1994, real estate loans serviced for others amounted to
$1,760.1 million compared to $1,650.4 million at December 31, 1993, and $1,252.8
million at December 31, 1992. Securitized loans serviced for investors at
December 31, 1994 totaled $786.6 million compared to $464.2 million at December
31, 1993 and $267.9 million at December 31, 1992.





Loan Maturities and Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates

The following table shows maturity distribution and sensitivity to changes in
interest rates of the loan portfolio at December 31, 1994:

          Loan Maturities and Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates



Credit Risk Management

Management of credit risk is a primary objective in maintaining a safe and sound
institution. To accomplish this task, the Company has written and placed in
effect loan policies to govern each of its loan portfolios. Loan policies assist
the Company in providing a framework for consistency in the acceptance of credit
and a basis for sound credit decisions. Generally, the Company makes its credit
decisions based upon debtor cash flow and available collateral. The Company has
structured its organization to separate the lending function from the credit
administration function to strengthen the control and independent evaluation of
credit activities. In addition, the Company has well-defined standards for
grading its loan portfolio, and maintains an internal Credit Examination
Department which periodically conducts examinations of the quality,
documentation, and administration of the Company's lending departments, and
submits reports thereon to a committee of the Board of Directors. Emphasis is
placed on early detection of potential problem credits so that action plans can
be developed on a timely basis to mitigate losses.




Loan Risk Elements

The following table shows the principal amounts of nonaccrual, past due 90 days
or more, restructured loans, and potential problem loans at December 31 for each
year indicated:



Includes loans held for sale.

Impact of Nonperforming Loans on Interest Income

The following table presents the gross interest income on nonaccrual and
restructured loans that would have been recorded if these loans had been current
in accordance with their original terms (interest at original rates), and the
amount of interest income on these loans that was included in income for each
year indicated:



Potential problem loans consist primarily of commercial loans and commercial
real estate loans of $1 million. Management reviews loans graded "special
mention" and monitors the status of such loans for becoming potential problem
loans and their likelihood of becoming nonperforming loans. At December 31,
1994, management considered no loans as potential problem loans compared to two
loans totaling $1,114,000, at December 31, 1993 and three loans totaling
$6,263,000 at December 31, 1992. Management believes that for the near future,
potential problem loans should remain at a relatively low level.

Another aspect of the Company's credit risk management strategy is the
diversification of the loan portfolio. At year-end, the Company had 4% of its
portfolio in loans held for sale, 21% in commercial loans, 53% in real estate
loans, 16% in consumer loans, and 6% in lease financing and other. The Company's
real estate portfolio is also diversified. Of the total portfolio, 9% is in real
estate construction loans, 2% is in home equity credit lines, 19% is in 1-4
family residential loans and 23% is in commercial loans secured by real estate.
In addition, the Company attempts to avoid the risk of an undue concentration of
credits in a particular industry or trade group, as indicated by the commercial
loan and lease portfolio being allocated over more than 17 major industry
classifications. At year-end, the largest concentration in the commercial loan
and leasing portfolios was in the manufacturing group which comprised
approximately 17% of the portfolio. The manufacturing group was also well
diversified over several subcategories. Agricultural and mining loans comprise
less than 7% of total commercial loans. The Company has no significant exposure
to highly leveraged transactions and has no foreign credits in its loan
portfolio.




Nonperforming Assets

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured loans, and other
real estate owned. Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when the loan
is 90 days or more past due as to principal or interest, unless the loan is in
the process of collection and well-secured. Consumer loans are not placed on a
nonaccrual status inasmuch as they are generally charged off when they become
120 days past due. Loans are restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of
interest or principal payments when the financial condition of the borrower
deteriorates and requires that the borrower be given temporary or permanent
relief from the contractual terms of the credit. Other real estate owned is
acquired through or in lieu of foreclosure on credits that are secured by real
estate.

Nonperforming assets totaled $18.9 million as of December 31, 1994, a decrease
of 38.2% from $30.6 million as of December 31, 1993. Nonperforming assets
totaled $31.5 million at December 31, 1992. Nonperforming assets represented
 .79% of net loans and leases, other real estate owned and other nonperforming
assets at December 31, 1994, as compared to 1.23% and 1.49% at December 31, 1993
and 1992, respectively. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of net loans and
leases, other real estate owned, and other nonperforming assets at December 31,
1994 are at their lowest levels since at least 1985, the period during which
records have been maintained using the present definitions.

Accruing loans past due 90 days or more totaled $3.0 million as of December 31,
1994, as compared to $10.8 million at December 31, 1993. These loans equal .13%
of net loans and leases at December 31, 1994, as compared to .44% at December
31, 1993.

Continuous efforts have been made to reduce nonperforming loans and to liquidate
real estate owned properties in such a manner as to recover the greatest value
possible. Significant steps have been taken during the last few years to
strengthen the Company's credit culture by implementing a number of initiatives
designed to increase internal controls and improve early detection and
resolution of problem loans.

The following table sets forth the composition of nonperforming assets at
December 31 for the years indicated:

                              Nonperforming Assets







                        Nonperforming Assets (continued)



*Includes loans held for sale.

Allowance For Loan Losses

The Company's allowance for loan losses was 2.80% of net loans and leases at
December 31, 1994, as compared to 2.75% as of December 31, 1993 and 2.84% as of
December 31, 1992. Loan charge-offs increased 32.5% and recoveries decreased
51.7% in 1994 as compared to 1993, which resulted in a ratio of net charge-offs
to average loans and leases of .19% in 1994, compared to (.23)% in 1993, and
 .44% in 1992. The allowance for loan and lease losses relative to problem loans
continued to strengthen in 1994. The allowance, as a percentage of noncurrent
loans, was 401.9% in 1994 as compared to 200.3% in 1993, and 213.9% in 1992.
Noncurrent loans are defined as loans on which interest is not accrued, plus
loans ninety days or more past due on which interest continues to accrue.

In analyzing the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses, management
utilizes a comprehensive loan grading system to determine risk potential in the
portfolio, and considers the results of independent internal and external credit
reviews, historical charge-off experience, and changes in the composition and
volume of the portfolio. Other factors, such as general economic conditions and
collateral values, are also considered. Larger problem credits are individually
evaluated to determine appropriate reserve allocations. Additions to the
allowance are based upon the resulting risk profile of the portfolio developed
through the evaluation of the above factors.




Summary Of Loan Loss Experience

The following table shows the changes in the allowance for losses for each year
indicated.




*Includes loans held for sale.



Review of nonperforming loans and evaluation of the quality of the loan
portfolio, as previously mentioned, results in the identification of certain
loans with risk characteristics which warrant specific reserve allocations in
the determination of the amount of the allowance for loan losses. The allowance
is not allocated among all loan categories, and amounts allocated to specific
categories are not necessarily indicative of future charge-offs. An amount in
the allowance not specifically allocated by loan category is necessary in view
of the fact that, while no loans were made with the expectation of loss, some
loan losses inevitably occur. The following is a categorization of the allowance
for loan losses for each year indicated:









Deposits

Total average deposits increased 12.7% to $3,583.1 million in 1994 from $3,178.9
million in 1993. Total deposits increased 8.0% to $3,706.0 million at December
31, 1994 compared to $3,432.3 million at December 31, 1993. The Company's demand
deposits increased .7% and savings and money market accounts, increased 9.7%
comparing December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1993, while certificates of deposit
under $100,000 decreased 4.0%. Domestic deposits over $100,000 increased 52.6%
to $123.5 million and foreign deposits increased 95.6% to $134.1 million at
December 31, 1994.

The following table presents the average amount and the average rate paid on
each of the following categories for each year indicated:

                    Average Deposit Amounts and Average Rates



Most foreign deposits are in denominations of $100,000 or more.



Short-term Borrowings

The following table sets forth data pertaining to the Company's short-term
borrowings for each year indicated:

(In thousands, except rates)

At December 31,



(a)   Federal funds purchased and security repurchase agreements are primarily
      on an overnight or demand basis. Rates on overnight funds reflect current
      market rates. Rates on fixed-maturity borrowings are set at the time of
      the borrowings.

(b)   Federal Home Loan Bank advances less than one year are overnight and
      reflect current market rates or reprice monthly based on a one-month LIBOR
      as set by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. Other borrowings are
      primarily variable rate and reprice based on changes in the prime rate
      which reflect current market.

Return on Equity and Assets







Capital Resources

IAt year end, there were two measures of capital adequacy in use for commercial
banks and bank holding companies, as follows:

1.    Risk-based Capital

Risk-based capital guidelines require varying amounts of capital to be
maintained against different categories of assets, depending on the general
level of risk inherent in the assets. A capital allocation is also required for
off-balance sheet exposures such as letters of credit, loan commitment, and
interest rate contracts. The Company's total risk-based capital ratio was 14.96%
at December 31, 1994 and 14.12% at December 31, 1993. The minimum regulatory
requirement is an 8% total risk-based capital ratio of which 4% must be
comprised of core capital. The minimum risk-based capital ratio for a bank to be
considered "well-capitalized" under the regulatory definitions is 10%.

2.    Tier I Leverage

Under the risk-based capital guidelines, a bank holding company could, in
theory, significantly leverage its capital by investing in assets with little or
no credit risk. The guidelines place a limit on such leverage through the
establishment of a minimum level of tangible equity as a percentage of average
total assets. The Company's Tier I leverage ratio was 6.24% at December 31, 1994
and 5.44% at December 31, 1993, compared to the minimum regulatory requirement
of 3%.

The following table presents the regulatory risk-based capital at December 31
for the years indicated:

                  Regulatory Risk-Based Capital at December 31



*    Limited to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.
**   Limited to 50% of core capital and reduced by 20% per year during an
     instrument's last five years before maturity.




Dividends

The Company's quarterly dividend rate was $.30 per share for the third and
fourth quarters of 1994, $.28 per share for the first and second quarters of
1994 and the third and fourth quarters of 1993, $.21 for the first and second
quarters of 1993 and the fourth quarter of 1992, and $.18 per share for all
other quarterly periods during 1992. The annual dividend rate was $1.16 for
1994, $.98 for 1993, and $.75 for 1992. During the years 1990 through 1994 there
was no preferred stock outstanding.

The following table sets forth dividends paid by the Company of each year
indicated:

                                 Dividends Paid



Foreign Operations

Zions First National Bank opened a foreign office located in Grand Cayman, Grand
Cayman Islands, B.W.I. in 1980. This office has no foreign loans outstanding.
The office accepts Eurodollar deposits from qualified customers of the Bank and
places deposits with foreign banks and foreign branches of other U.S. banks.
Foreign deposits at December 31 totaled $134,132,000 in 1994, $68,563,000 in
1993, and $52,777,000 in 1992; and averaged $108,383,000 for 1994, $55,823,000
for 1993, and $86,479,000 for 1992.



                                                                       

 ITEM 8  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          Independent Auditors' Report

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Zions Bancorporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zions
Bancorporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1994. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Zions Bancorporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in notes 1 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for postretirement benefits other than
pensions in 1993 to adopt the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 106,
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions. As
discussed in notes 1 and 6, the Company also changed its method of accounting
for income taxes in 1993 to adopt the provisions of Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes. As discussed in notes 1 and 3, the Company also
changed its method of accounting for investments to adopt the provisions of
Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities on December 31, 1993.

                                                  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Salt Lake City, Utah
January 24, 1995


                                                                          

                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1994 and 1993

                      (In thousands, except share amounts)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Statements of Income

                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

                                 (In thousands)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings

                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

                                 (In thousands)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Business - Zions Bancorporation (the Parent) is a multibank holding company
organized under the laws of Utah in 1955, which provides a full range of banking
and related services through its subsidiaries located primarily in Utah, Nevada,
and Arizona.

Basis of Financial Statement Presentation - The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries
(the Company). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. Certain amounts in prior years' consolidated
financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 1994 presentation.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
balance sheet and revenues and expenses for the period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

Investment Securities - The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities on December 31, 1993. Under Statement
No. 115, the Company classifies its investment securities in one of three
categories: trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. Trading securities
are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near
term. Held-to-maturity securities are those securities which the Company has the
ability and intent to hold until maturity. All other securities not included in
trading or held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale.

Trading securities (including futures and options used to hedge trading
positions against interest rate risk) and available-for-sale securities are
recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized
cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion of premiums or discounts.
Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in
earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of related tax effect, on
available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a
separate component of shareholders' equity until realized. Transfers of
securities between categories are recorded at fair value at the date of
transfer. Unrealized holding gains and losses are recognized in earnings for
transfers into trading securities. Unrealized holding gains or losses associated
with transfers of securities from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale are
recorded as a separate component of shareholders' equity. The unrealized holding
gains or losses included in the separate component of equity for securities
transferred from available-for-sale to held-for-maturity are maintained and
amortized into earnings over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment
to yield in a manner consistent with the amortization or accretion of premium or
discount on the associated security.

A decline in the market value of any available-for-sale or held-to-maturity
security below cost that is deemed other than temporary is charged to earnings
resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the security.

Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related
held-to-maturity security as an adjustment to yield using the effective-interest
method. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. Realized gains
and losses for securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity
are included in earnings and are derived using the specific-identification
method of determining the cost of securities sold.

Loan Fees - Nonrefundable fees and related direct costs associated with the
origination of loans are deferred. The net deferred fees and costs are
recognized in interest income over the loan term using methods that generally
produce a level yield on the unpaid loan balance. Other nonrefundable fees
related to lending activities other than direct loan origination are recognized
as other operating income over the period the related service is provided.
Bankcard discounts and fees charged to merchants for processing transactions
through the Company are shown net of interchange discounts and fees expense, and
are included in other service charges, commissions, and fees.

Mortgage Loan Servicing - Mortgage loan servicing fees are based on a stipulated
percentage of the outstanding loan principal balances being serviced and are
included in income as related loan payments from mortgagors are collected. Costs
associated with the acquisition of loan servicing rights through the purchase of
servicing contracts or bulk loan purchases are deferred and amortized over the
lives of loans being serviced in proportion to the estimated net loan servicing
income.


                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Allowance for Loan Losses - The allowance for loan losses is based on
management's periodic evaluation of the loan portfolio and reflects an amount
that, in management's opinion, is adequate to absorb losses in the existing
portfolio. In evaluating the portfolio, management takes into consideration
numerous factors, including current economic conditions, prior loan loss
experience, the composition of the loan portfolio, and management's estimate of
anticipated credit losses. Management believes that the allowance for loan
losses is adequate. While management uses available information to recognize
losses on loans, future additions to the allowance may be necessary based on
changes in economic conditions. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an
integral part of their examination process, periodically review the Company's
allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Company to recognize
additions to the allowance based on their judgments using information available
to them at the time of their examination.

Premises and Equipment - Premises and equipment are stated at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation, computed on the
straight-line method, is charged to operations over the estimated useful lives
of the properties. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the terms of
respective leases or the estimated useful lives of the improvements, whichever
is shorter. As of December 31, 1994 and 1993, accumulated depreciation and
amortization totaled $70,520,000 and $61,932,000, respectively.

Nonperforming Assets - Nonperforming assets are comprised of loans for which the
accrual of interest has been discontinued, loans for which the terms have been
renegotiated to less than market rates due to a weakening of the borrower's
financial condition (restructured loans), and other real estate acquired
primarily through foreclosure that is awaiting disposition.

Loans are generally placed on a nonaccrual status when principal or interest is
past due 90 days or more unless the loan is both well secured and in the process
of collection, or when in the opinion of management, full collection of
principal or interest is unlikely. Generally, consumer loans are not placed on a
nonaccrual status inasmuch as they are generally charged off when they become
120 days past due.

Other real estate owned is carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Real estate may be considered to be in substance foreclosed and included herein
when specific criteria are met. When property is acquired through foreclosure,
or substantially foreclosed, any excess of the related loan balance over net
realizable value is charged to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent write
downs or losses upon sale, if any, are charged to other real estate expense.

Amounts Paid in Excess of Net Assets of Acquired Businesses (Goodwill) - The
Company assesses the recoverability of this intangible asset by determining
whether the amortization of the goodwill balance over its remaining life can be
recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows of the acquired
operation. The amount of goodwill impairment, if any, is measured based on
projected discounted future operating cash flows using a discount rate
reflecting the Company's average cost of funds.

Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments - In the ordinary course of business,
the Company has entered into off-balance sheet financial instruments consisting
of commitments to extend credit, commercial letters of credit, and standby
letters of credit. Such financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated
financial statements when they become payable.

The credit risk associated with these commitments is considered in management's
determination of the allowance for loan losses.

Interest Rate Exchange Contracts and Cap and Floor Agreements - The Company
enters into interest rate exchange contracts (swaps) and cap and floor
agreements in the management of interest rate risk. The objective of these
financial instruments is to match estimated repricing periods of
interest-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to reduce interest rate
exposure. These instruments are used only to hedge asset and liability
portfolios and are not used for speculative purposes. Therefore, these
instruments are not marked to market. Fees associated with these financial
instruments are accreted into interest income or amortized to interest expense
on a straight-line basis over the lives of the contracts and agreements. Gains
or losses on early termination of a swap are amortized on the remaining term of
the contract when the underlying assets or liabilities still exist. Otherwise,
such gains or losses are fully expensed or recorded as income at the termination
of the contract. The net interest received or paid on these contracts is
reflected on a current basis in the interest expense or income related to the
hedged obligation or asset.

Statements of Cash Flows - For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the
Company considers due from banks to be cash equivalents.



                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The Company paid interest of $156.1 million, $120.8 million, and $125.5 million,
respectively, and income taxes of $27.9 million, $26.3 million, and $16.9
million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992.
Loans transferred to other real estate owned totaled $3.3 million, $1.2 million,
and $4.9 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and
1992.

Income Taxes - Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted the provisions of
Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and has reported the cumulative
effect of that change in the method of accounting for income taxes in the 1993
consolidated statement of income. Under the asset and liability method of
Statement No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. Under Statement No. 109, the effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period that includes the enactment date.

Pension and Other Postretirement Plans - The Company has a defined benefit
pension plan covering substantially all of its employees. The benefits are based
on years of service and employees' compensation levels. The cost of this program
is being funded currently. The Company has other trustee retirement plans
covering all qualified employees who have at least one year of service (see note
12).

The Company sponsors a defined benefit health care plan for substantially all
retirees and employees. Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement
No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions,
which establishes a new accounting principle for the cost of retiree health care
and other postretirement benefits (see note 12). Prior to 1993, the Company
recognized these benefits on the pay-as-you-go method (i.e., cash basis). The
cumulative effect of the change in method of accounting for postretirement
benefits other than pensions is reported in the 1993 consolidated statement of
income.

Trust Assets - Assets held by the Company in a fiduciary or agency capacity for
customers are not included in the consolidated financial statements as such
items are not assets of the Company.

Stock Options - Proceeds from the sale of stock issued under options are
credited to common stock. The Company makes no charges against earnings with
respect to stock options issued under its qualified stock option plan. The
Company charges income for the difference between the option price and market
value on the date of grant with respect to stock options issued under its
nonqualified stock option plan.

Net Income Per Common Share - Net income per common share is based on the
weighted average outstanding common shares during each year, including common
stock equivalents, if applicable.

Stock Split - On December 18, 1992, the Company's Board of Directors approved a
two-for-one split of the common stock. This action was effective on January 26,
1993 for shareholders of record as of January 5, 1993. A total of 6,139,227
shares of common stock were issued and recorded in the form of a stock dividend.
All references to the number of common shares and per common share amounts have
been restated to reflect the split.

Accounting Standard Not Adopted - In May 1993, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan.  Statement No. 114 requires that impaired loans be
measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at
the loan's effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, at the loan's
observable market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is
collateral dependent.  Statement No. 114 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1994. Management does not expect Statement No. 114
to have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of
operations.



                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

On January 14, 1994, the Company and National Bancorp of Arizona Inc. (NBA)
consummated their agreement and plan of reorganization whereby the Company
issued 1,456,408 shares of its common stock for 100 percent of the outstanding
common stock of NBA. The consolidated financial statements of the Company give
effect to the merger, which has been accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Accordingly, the accounts of NBA have been combined with those of the Company
for all periods presented. Separate results of operations of the combining
entities for 1993 and 1992 are as follows (in thousands):



Also during 1994, the Company acquired Rio Salado Bancorp (Rio) for 328,000
shares of common stock. This acquisition was not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position and was accounted for as a purchase. The
difference between the purchase price and the net book value of Rio of $7.6
million is included in goodwill.

On August 11, 1993, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of Discount
Corporation of New York (Discount) for approximately $65.7 million in cash. The
acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase. The difference between the
purchase price and the net book value of Discount of $9.4 million ($8 million as
of December 31, 1994) is included in deferred tax assets (grouped with other
assets) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

On October 29, 1993, Wasatch Bancorp (Wasatch) was merged into the Company. The
Company issued 373,335 shares of its common stock for 100 percent of the
outstanding common stock of Wasatch. The acquisition has been accounted for as a
pooling of interests. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for
1993 and 1992 have not been restated inasmuch as the historical operations of
Wasatch are not significant to the Company. Also, during 1993, the Company
acquired a 25 percent interest in Bennington Capital Management, Inc., a
Seattle-based investment advisor which manages the AccessorTM family of mutual
funds. This acquisition is accounted for on the equity method.

3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES

Investment securities as of December 31, 1994, are summarized as follows (in
thousands):




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements






The Company adopted Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities on December 31, 1993. The Company recognized a net
unrealized holding loss on securities available-for-sale of $5,866,000, after
related tax effect, at December 31, 1994 and an unrealized holding gain on
securities available-for-sale of $415,000, after related tax effect, at December
31, 1993.

Investment securities as of December 31, 1993, are summarized as follows (in
thousands):









                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The amortized cost and estimated market value of investment securities as of
December 31, 1994, by contractual maturity, excluding mortgage-backed and equity
securities, are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or repay obligations
with or without call or prepayment penalties (in thousands):



Gross gains of $367,000, $104,000, and $468,000 and gross losses of $666,000,
$121,000, and $141,000 were realized on sales of investment securities for the
years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively. Such amounts
include gains of $102,000, $10,000, and $105,000, and losses of $66,000,
$32,000, and $17,000, respectively, for sales of mortgage-backed securities.

As of December 31, 1994 and 1993, securities with an amortized cost of
$210,149,000 and $110,262,000, respectively, were pledged to secure public and
trust deposits, advances, and for other purposes as required by law. In
addition, the Federal Home Loan Bank stock is pledged as security on the related
advances (note 7).

4. LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

Loans are summarized as follows (in thousands):



As of December 31, 1994 and 1993, loans with a carrying value of $121,886,000
and $302,530,000, respectively, were pledged as security for Federal Home Loan
Bank advances (note 7).

During 1994, 1993, and 1992, the Company purchased mortgage servicing rights
totaling $590 thousand, $1.7 million, and $1.4 million, respectively.
Amortization of purchased mortgage servicing rights totaled $1.7 million, $2.6
million, and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.



                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

During 1994, 1993, and 1992, consumer and other loan securitizations totaled
$703 million, $609 million, and $159 million, respectively. Loan sales income
related thereto is recognized on the basis of cash flows received from the
securitized assets. Loan sales income, excluding servicing, amounted to $11.7
million in 1994, $14.7 million in 1993, and $1.7 million in 1992.

The allowance for loan losses is summarized as follows (in thousands):



Included in the allowance for loan losses is an allocation for unused
commitments and letters of credit (note 9) that as of December 31, 1994 and
1993, amounted to $3,674,000 and $1,972,000, respectively.

Nonperforming loans, leases, and related interest foregone are summarized as
follows (in thousands):




5. DEPOSITS

Deposits are summarized as follows (in thousands):


Interest expense on deposits is summarized as follows (in thousands):






                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

6. INCOME TAXES

The Company adopted Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, as of
January 1, 1993.  The cumulative effect of this adoption was an increase in net
income of $7,419,000, as reported in 1993.

Income taxes are summarized as follows (in thousands):



A reconciliation between income tax expense computed using the statutory federal
income tax rate (35 percent in 1994 and 1993, and 34 percent in 1992), and
actual income tax expense is as follows (in thousands):



The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, are presented below (in thousands):





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some
portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. As of January 1, 1993,
the Company established a valuation allowance for the net capital loss
carryforwards as a result of some uncertainty of realizing offsetting capital
gains. Subsequently, the Company realized capital gains sufficient to reduce the
valuation allowance by $972,000 in 1994 and $1,137,000 in 1993.

The Company has net operating loss carryforwards totaling $27,535,000 that
expire in the years 2006 and 2007.

7. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES AND OTHER BORROWINGS

Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings as of December 31, 1994 and
1993, include $101,571,000 and $252,109,000, respectively, borrowed by Zions
First National Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary, (the Bank) under its line of
credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. The line of credit provides
for borrowing of amounts up to ten percent of total assets. The line of credit
is secured under a blanket pledge whereby the Bank maintains unencumbered
security with par value, which has been adjusted using a pledge requirement
percentage based upon the types of securities pledged, equal to at least 100
percent of outstanding advances, and, Federal Home Loan Bank stock. There are no
withdrawal and usage restrictions or compensating balance requirements.

Substantially all Federal Home Loan Bank advances reprice with changes in market
interest rates or have short terms to maturity. The carrying value of such
indebtedness is deemed to approximate market value (note 15).

Maturities of outstanding advances in excess of one year are as follows (in
thousands):



8. LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt is summarized as follows (in thousands):



Subordinated notes includes $50,000,000 of 8-5/8 percent notes that mature in
2002. These notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In addition, the Company
has $4,000,000 of 9 percent subordinated notes that mature in full on November
1, 1998 and may be called, at the option of the Company, on or after November 1,
1996 at par. The subordinated notes are unsecured and require semiannual
interest payments.

The industrial revenue bonds require mandatory sinking fund redemption in
various principal amounts through 1995. The bonds bear interest at a rate of
7.50 percent. The bonds are secured by an assignment of a lease on a banking
facility.




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Maturities and sinking fund requirements on long-term debt for each of the
succeeding five years are as follows (in thousands):



9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

The Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in
the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers and
to reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. These financial
instruments include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit,
interest rate caps and floors, interest rate exchange contracts, and commitments
to purchase and sell securities. Those instruments involve, to varying degrees,
elements of credit, market, and interest rate risk in excess of the amount
recognized in the balance sheets. The Company's exposure to credit loss in the
event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument for
commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit is represented by the
contractual notional amount of those instruments. The Company uses the same
credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for
on-balance sheet instruments. For interest rate caps, floors, and exchange
contract transactions, the contract or notional amounts do not represent
exposure to credit loss. The Company controls the credit risk of these
transactions through credit approvals, limits, and monitoring procedures.

Unless noted otherwise, the Company does not require collateral or other
security to support financial instruments with credit risk.

Notional values of financial instruments are summarized as follows:




Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as
there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments
generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may
require payment of a fee.

Commitments totaling $936,671,000 expire in 1995. Since many of the commitments
are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do
not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The Company evaluates each
customer's credit worthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral
obtained, if deemed necessary by the Company upon extension of credit, is based
on management's credit evaluation of the counter party. Collateral held varies
but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment,
and income-producing commercial properties.



                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Standby letters of credit written are conditional commitments issued by the
Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Those
guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing
arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar
transactions. Standby letters of credit include commitments in the amount of
$73,980,000 expiring in 1995 and $1,592,000 expiring thereafter through 2005.
The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as
that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. The Company generally
holds marketable securities and cash equivalents as collateral supporting those
commitments for which collateral is deemed necessary.

The Company enters into interest rate contracts, including interest rate caps,
floors, futures, options, and interest rate exchange contract agreements in
managing its interest rate exposure. Interest rate caps and floors obligate one
of the parties to the contract to make payments to the other if an interest rate
index exceeds a specified upper "capped" level or if the index falls below a
specified "floor" level. A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a
quantity of a financial instrument or commodity at a predetermined future date
and rate or price. An option contract is an agreement that conveys to the
purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a quantity of a
financial instrument or commodity at a predetermined rate or price at a time in
the future. Interest rate exchange contract agreements involve the exchange of
fixed and variable rate interest payments based upon a notional amount and
maturity. Interest rate caps and exchange contracts to which the Company is a
party at December 31, 1994, have remaining terms of 5 to 20 years and 2 to 68
months, respectively. The fair value of interest rate contracts are obtained
from deal quotes, or discounted cash flow analyses. The values represent the
estimated amount the Company would receive or pay for comparable contracts,
taking into account current interest rates. Notional values of interest rate
contracts are summarized as follows (in thousands):



The contract or notional amount of financial instruments indicates a level of
activity associated with a particular class of financial instrument and is not a
reflection of the actual level of risk. As of December 31, 1994 and 1993, the
regulatory risk-weighted values assigned to all off-balance sheet financial
instruments described herein totaled $177,347,000 and $134,315,000,
respectively. See note 4 for consideration of financial instruments in
management's determination of the allowance for loan losses.

During 1988, a lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court, Utah
District, against the Bank in connection with its performance of duties as an
indenture trustee for certain investors in real estate and other syndication
projects. In September 1992, a motion was granted allowing an amended complaint
containing allegations that plaintiffs intend to proceed as a class action to
recover approximately $23 million, prejudgment interest, attorneys' fees, and
additional amounts under certain statutory provisions and common law. No motion
to certify the classes has been filed, and the Bank intends to vigorously oppose
such motion and to defend the entire action. Although no assurances can be given
as to the outcome, the Company continues to believe that it has meritorious
defenses to such lawsuit, and that there is insurance coverage for a substantial
portion of the amount claimed.

The Company is also the defendant in various other legal proceedings arising in
the normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the outcome of
any of such proceedings, including the lawsuit discussed in the preceding
paragraph, will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
position.

In connection with loans sold to (or serviced for) others, the Company is
subject to recourse obligations on approximately $22.5 million as of December
31, 1994.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The Company has commitments for leasing premises and equipment under the terms
of noncancelable leases expiring from 1994 to 2005. Future aggregate minimum
rental payments under existing noncancelable leases at December 31, 1994 are as
follows (in thousands):



Future aggregate minimum rental payments have been reduced by noncancelable
subleases as follows: 1995, $689,000; 1996, $485,000; and 1997, $4,000.
Aggregate rental expense on operating leases amounted to $4,841,000, $3,946,000,
and $3,335,000 for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

10. STOCK OPTIONS

The Company has a qualified stock option plan adopted in 1981, under which stock
options are granted to key employees; and a nonqualified plan under which
options are granted to certain key employees. Under the nonqualified plan,
options expire five to ten years from the date of grant. Under the qualified
plan, 506,000 shares of common stock were reserved. Qualified options are
granted at a price not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the
stock at the date of grant. Options granted are generally exercisable in
increments from one to six years after the date of grant and expire six years
after the date of grant.

Transactions and other information relating to stock options are summarized as
follows:


                                       


                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


As of December 31, 1994, there are 176,000 options exercisable at prices from
$9.47 to $47.25 per share. For the year ended December 31, 1994, shares obtained
through exercise of options had a cumulative average market value of $1,739,000
at the date of exercise.

11. COMMON STOCK

Changes in common stock are summarized as follows (amount in thousands):



12. RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for eligible
employees. Plan benefits are based on years of service and employees'
compensation levels. Benefits vest under the plan upon completion of five years
of service. Plan assets consist principally of corporate equity and debt
securities, government fixed income securities, and cash investments.

The components of the net pension cost for the years ended December 31, 1994 and
1993, are as follows (in thousands):





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Primary actuarial assumptions used in determining the net pension cost are as
follows:




In addition to the Company's defined benefit pension plan, the Company sponsors
a defined benefit health care plan that provides postretirement medical benefits
to full-time employees hired before January 1, 1993, who meet minimum age and
service requirements. The plan is contributory, with retiree contributions
adjusted annually, and contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles
and coinsurance. Plan coverage is provided by self-funding or health maintenance
organizations (HMOs) options. The accounting for the plan anticipates future
cost-sharing changes to the written plan, including the Company's expressed
intent to increase the retiree contribution rate annually from 30 percent and 40
percent in 1993 for normal and early retirees, respectively, to 50 percent for
both in 1996. The Company's retiree premium contribution rate is frozen at 50
percent of 1996 dollar amounts. The Company's policy is to fund the cost of
medical benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management.

The Company adopted Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions, as of January 1, 1993.  The cumulative effect of
this adoption was an after-tax decrease in net income of $5,760,000, as reported
in 1993.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The following table presents the plan's funded status reconciled with amounts
recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 1994 and
1993, as follows (in thousands):



For measurement purposes, an annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) of 11.55 percent and 9
percent were assumed for the self-funded and HMOs options, respectively, for
1994. The HMOs rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5 percent by the year
2000 and remain at that level thereafter. The self-funded rate was assumed to
decrease gradually to 5.8 percent by the year 2001, and decline to 5.01 percent
over the remaining life expectancy of the participants. The health care cost
trend rate assumption does not have a significant effect on amounts reported
because the Company has capped its retiree premium contribution rates.

The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 8.75 and 7.50 percent, respectively, at
December 31, 1994 and 1993.

The Company has an Employee Stock Savings Plan and an Employee Investment
Savings Plan (formerly known as the Salary Reduction Arrangement Plan)
(PAYSHELTER). Under PAYSHELTER, employees select from a nontax-deferred or
tax-deferred plan and four investment alternatives. Employees can contribute
from 1 to 15 percent of compensation, which is matched 50 percent by the Company
for contributions up to 5 percent and 25 percent for contributions greater than
5 percent up to 10 percent. Contributions to the plans amounted to $1,319,000,
$1,176,000, and $793,000 for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

During 1992, the Company formed an employee profit sharing plan. Contributions
to the plan are determined per a formula based on the Company's annual return on
equity (required minimum return of 14 percent). Contributions to the plan
amounted to $1,096,000, $948,000, and $914,000 for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


13. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  (UNAUDITED)

Financial information by quarter for the three years ended December 31, 1994 is
as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):



14. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Credit risk represents the accounting loss that would be recognized at the
reporting date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted.
Concentration of credit risk (whether on or off balance sheet) that arise from
financial instruments exists for groups of customers or counterparties when they
have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet
contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other
conditions. The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual
customer or counterparty.

Most of the Company's business activity is with customers located within the
states of Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. The commercial loan portfolio is well
diversified, consisting of more than 17 industry classifications groupings. As
of December 31, 1994, the largest concentration of risk in the commercial loan
and leasing portfolio is represented by the manufacturing industry grouping,
which comprises approximately 17 percent of the portfolio. The manufacturing
industry grouping is also well diversified over several subcategories. The
Company has minimal credit exposure from lending transactions with highly
leveraged entities and has no foreign loans.






                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


15.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Carrying value and estimated fair value of principal financial instruments as of
December 31, 1994 are summarized as follows (in thousands):



Financial assets and financial liabilities other than investment securities of
the Company are not traded in active markets. The above estimates of fair value
require subjective judgments, and are approximate. Changes in the following
methodologies and assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.

Financial Assets - The estimated fair value approximates the carrying value of
cash and due from banks and money market investments. For securities, the fair
value is based on quoted market prices where available. If quoted market prices
are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable
instruments or using a discounted cash flow model based on established market
rates. The fair value of fixed rate loans is estimated by discounting future
cash flows using the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) yield curve adjusted
by a factor which reflects the credit and interest rate risk inherent in the
loan. Variable rate loans reprice with changes in market rates. As such their
carrying amounts are deemed to approximate fair value. The fair value of the
allowance for loan losses of $67,018,000 is the present value of estimated net
charge-offs.

Financial Liabilities - The estimated fair value of demand and savings deposits,
and federal funds purchased and security repurchase agreements approximates the
carrying value. The fair value of time and foreign deposits is estimated by
discounting future cash flows using the LIBOR yield curve. Substantially all
FHLB advances reprice with changes in market interest rates or have short terms
to maturity. The carrying value of such indebtedness is deemed to approximate
market value. Other borrowings are not significant. The estimated fair value of
the subordinated notes is based on a quoted market price. The remaining
long-term debt is not significant.

Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments - The carrying and fair values of
off-balance sheet financial instruments represented by interest rate exchange
contracts (swaps) and caps as of December 31, 1994 is as follows (in thousands):



The fair value of the swaps and caps reflects the estimated amounts that the
Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date
based upon pricing or valuation models applied to current market information,
thereby taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses of open
contracts.




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The fair value of commitments to extend credit and letters of credit, based on
fees currently charged for similar commitments, is not significant. See note 9
to the consolidated financial statements.

16. DIVIDEND RESTRICTION AND CONDENSED PARENT-ONLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Dividends declared by the Company's banking subsidiaries in any calendar year
may not, without the approval of the appropriate federal regulator, exceed their
net earnings for that year combined with their retained net earnings for the
preceding two years. At December 31, 1994, the Company's subsidiaries had
approximately $112,994,000 available for the payment of dividends under the
foregoing restrictions. In addition, the banking subsidiaries must meet various
requirements and restrictions under the laws of the United States and state
laws, including requirements to maintain cash reserves against deposits and
limitations on loans and investments with affiliated companies. During 1994,
cash reserve balances held with the Federal Reserve banks averaged approximately
$78.3 million.







                    Condensed financial information of Zions
                     Bancorporation (parent only) follows:

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                            Condensed Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1994 and 1993

                                 (In thousands)






                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                         Condensed Statements of Income

                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

                                 (In thousands)






                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows

                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

                                 (In thousands)



The parent company paid interest of $7,245,000, $8,577,000, and $7,940,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.





                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                    Condensed Statements of Retained Earnings

                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992

                                 (In thousands)






                                                               

The selected quarterly financial data information required by this item appears
on pages 24 and 61 under the caption "QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(UNAUDITED)."

ITEM 9.       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item, to the extent not included under the
caption "Executive officers of the registrant" in Part I of this report, will
appear on pages 1 through 6 of the definitive Proxy Statement. Information
relating to the directors and executive officers on pages 1 through 6, and
information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K as set forth beginning in the
last paragraph on page 7 of the definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1995
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 28, 1995, is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item appearing on pages 8 through 21 of the
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held April 28, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item appearing on pages 6 and 7 of the
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held April 28, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item appearing on page 21 of the definitive
Proxy Statement relating to the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 28, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    The following documents are part of this report and appear on the pages 
       indicated:



      (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

           Schedules are omitted because the information is either not required,
           not applicable, or is included in Part II, Items 6-8 of this report.




      (3)  Exhibits:

           The  exhibits  listed  on the  Exhibit  Index on page 71 of this  
           report  are  filed or are  incorporated  herein  by reference.

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended
December 31, 1994.

For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form
S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1993, the undersigned
Registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be incorporated
by reference into Registrant's Registration Statements on Form S-8 Nos. 33-52878
(filed on October 2, 1992) and 33-52796 (filed on October 2, 1992).

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of
1933 may be permitted to directors, officers, and controlling persons of the
Registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the Registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
Registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer, or controlling
person of the Registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit, or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer, or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the Registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
be governed by the final adjudication of such issue.




SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

March 21, 1995                                       ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                                               By     /s/ Harris H. Simmons
                                                 -------------------------------
                                               HARRIS H. SIMMONS, President and 
                                                     Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.







                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                    FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                    (Pursuant to Item 601 of Regulations S-K)






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
              FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT ON FORM 10-K (continued)

                    (Pursuant to Item 601 of Regulations S-K)



*  incorporated by reference.

