
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 12/31/1999



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20459

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ___________ TO ___________

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-2610

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)



REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:  (801) 524-4787

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:  NONE

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                        COMMON STOCK - WITHOUT PAR VALUE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ________

Aggregate Market Value of Common Stock Held by Nonaffiliates at
  February 11, 2000 ..............................................$4,167,689,000

Number of Common Shares Outstanding at
  February 11, 2000............................................85,619,013 Shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS (SEE PART III, ITEMS 10,
11, 12 AND 13).

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                       ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1999 ON FORM 10-K

                                






PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

MERGER WITH FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION

On June 6, 1999 the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of
Merger (the "Agreement") with First Security Corporation (FSCO). Under the terms
of the Agreement, subject to approval by the shareholders of both companies and
certain other conditions, the Company and FSCO will combine, with the combined
company retaining the FSCO name. If the merger occurs, the combined company will
be the second largest bank holding company headquartered in the western United
States, with assets of approximately $40 billion. Under the terms of the
Agreement, each outstanding share of the Company's common stock will be
converted into one share of common stock of the combined company, and each share
of FSCO common stock will be reclassified and converted into 0.442 of a share of
common stock of the combined company.

The shareholder meetings to vote on the merger originally scheduled for December
28, 1999, but delayed in order for the Company to restate certain aspects of its
historical financial statements as described under "Restatements", were
rescheduled for March 22, 2000 for FSCO shareholders and March 31, 2000 for the
Company. The Company rescheduled its meeting from March 22, 2000 to March 31,
2000 to allow for the dissemination of certain pertinent information to its
shareholders. This information included notification that the Company's
independent financial advisor in the transaction, Goldman, Sachs & Co., had
reevaluated its fairness opinion on the merger. As a result of its review of
changes in relevant information it had evaluated in forming its earlier opinion,
Goldman, Sachs issued an updated letter to the Company's board of directors
advising them that Goldman, Sachs could no longer conclude that, from a
financial point of view, the exchange ratio is fair to Zions shareholders.

If the merger is not consummated, the Company will incur material expenses
related to disengagement of the merger and related systems integration work
completed in contemplation of the combination. The Company also owns 9,457,605
shares of First Security common stock which are classified by the Company as
available for sale. Due to recent declines in trading values of FSCO common
stock, the Company would expect to record material unrealized losses on the FSCO
common stock as of March 31, 2000. At March 27, 2000 the unrealized pre-tax loss
on FSCO common stock owned by the Company was approximately $119 million.

RESTATEMENTS

As a result of an interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff
regarding the treatment of share repurchases under Staff Accounting Bulletin 96,
the Company restated the presentation of 8 of 13 business combinations,
consummated during 1998 and 1997, as purchases rather than as poolings of
interests.

As a result of the foregoing, the Company's 1996, 1997, and 1998 consolidated
financial statements were restated from amounts previously reported and a Form
10-K/A for 1998 was filed in February 2000 reflecting the restated amounts.
Financial data has also been restated as a result of the Company's acquisition
of Pioneer Bancorporation in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of
interests and considered significant.






DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation is a multibank holding company organized under the laws of
Utah in 1955, and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended. Zions Bancorporation and Subsidiaries (the Company) owns and operates
six commercial banks with a total of 362 offices. The Company provides a full
range of banking and related services through its banking and other
subsidiaries, primarily in Utah, Idaho, California, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada
and Washington. On December 31, 1999 the Company had total assets of
approximately $20.3 billion, loans of $12.8 billion, deposits of $14.1 billion
and shareholders' equity of $1.7 billion. Active full-time equivalent employees
totaled 6,833 at year-end 1999. For further information about the Company's
industry segments see Business Segment Results and Note 20 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statement.

GROWTH

During October 1999, the Company acquired Pioneer Bancorporation headquartered
in Reno, Nevada, and its wholly-owned subsidiary Pioneer Citizens Bank of
Nevada, in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. Pioneer
Citizens Bank of Nevada, with total assets of approximately $1.1 billion on
September 30, 1999, was merged into Nevada State Bank. Also in October 1999, the
Company completed the acquisition of Regency Bancorp headquartered in Fresno,
California and its banking subsidiary Regency Bank, in a purchase transaction.
On September 30, 1999 Regency Bank had total assets of approximately $230
million. Regency Bank was merged with the Company's California banking
subsidiary, California Bank & Trust.

In 1998, the Company experienced unprecedented merger activity with the
completion of 12 bank acquisitions in 3 states. The most significant acquisition
during the year was the purchase of The Sumitomo Bank of California with total
assets of approximately $4.5 billion. The Sumitomo Bank of California and First
Pacific National Bank, also acquired during 1998, were merged with the Company's
Grossmont Bank subsidiary which was renamed California Bank & Trust. California
Bank & Trust is the sixth largest commercial banking organization in California
with approximately $6 billion in total assets and 74 offices throughout the
state.

The Company also significantly expanded its operations in Colorado during 1998
building on the acquisition of Aspen Bancshares in 1997. Acquisitions in
Colorado during 1998 included Vectra Banking Corporation located in Denver and
eight small banks which expanded the Company's operations into the Colorado
Springs area, Steamboat Springs and the San Luis Valley in Southern Colorado.

Another acquisition completed during 1998 was The Commerce Bank of Washington
with total assets of approximately $300 million. The Commerce Bank of Washington
is based in Seattle and focuses on serving the needs of small and medium-sized
businesses in the Puget Sound area.

In January 2000 the Company signed an agreement to purchase County Bank
headquartered in Prescott, Arizona. County Bank has approximately $242 million
in assets and approximately 150 employees in seven offices. The transaction is
expected to be accounted for as a pooling of interests and is anticipated to
close during the second quarter of 2000.

For further information about merger activities see Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.






PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Company focuses on maintaining community-minded banking by strengthening its
core business lines of retail banking, small and medium-sized business lending,
residential mortgage and investment activities. The banks provide a wide variety
of commercial and retail banking and mortgage-lending financial services.
Commercial loans, lease financing, cash management, lockbox, customized draft
processing, and other special financial services are provided for business and
other commercial banking customers. A wide range of personal banking services
are provided to individuals, including bankcard, student and other installment
loans and home equity lines of credit, checking accounts, savings accounts, time
certificates of various types and maturities, trust services, safe deposit
facilities, direct deposit and 24 hour ATM access. Zions First National Bank
also provides services to key segments through its Women's Financial, Private
Banking and Executive Banking Groups.

In addition to these core businesses, the Company has built specialized lines of
business in capital markets and public finance. The Company is the only primary
dealer in U.S. Treasury securities headquartered west of the Mississippi River.
It has pioneered the online trading of government securities through its
websites, which display live, executable quotes to financial institutions and
money managers nationwide. During the fourth quarter of 1999, Zions announced
its acquisition of approximately 5% of the common stock of Garban-Intercapital
plc. Garban is one of the world's largest interdealer brokers. Zions believes
that this relationship with Garban will enhance its product offerings and
electronic trading capabilities. The Company's combined public finance
operations constitute one of the largest municipal finance advisory firms in the
country and ranked ninth in the Securities Data Corporation's listing of the
nation's top 100 municipal advisors.

The Company is also a leader in U.S. Small Business Administration ("SBA")
lending. Through Zions Small Business Finance division, the Company provides SBA
7(a) loans to small businesses throughout the United States. The Company's SBA
504 group works with Certified Development Companies and correspondent banks to
provide the nation's largest source of secondary market financing for this loan
program. The Company also owns nearly a 20 percent equity interest in the
Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ("Farmer Mac") and originates and
sells qualified loans to Farmer Mac.

The Company is developing a reputation as one of the industry's real innovators
in providing customer solutions in the new world of electronic commerce. 1999
was a pivotal year for Zions' electronic commerce subsidiary, Digital Signature
Trust Co. (DST). DST completed critical infrastructure development to meet the
needs of commercial enterprise and government clients that trust their
e-business security initiatives to DST. Among its accomplishments, the U.S.
General Services Administration awarded DST the first contract to issue digital
certificates to the American public on behalf of federal agencies under the
Access Certificates for Electronic Services (ACES) program; the Department of
Defense selected DST to provide certificates for its vendor e-commerce program;
and, the state of California approved DST to provide digital certificate
services to state and local government in California. The Company has also
developed an Internet presence for conducting retail banking business, including
a Web-based bill payment system.






OTHER NONBANKING SUBSIDIARIES

The Company conducts various other bank-related business activities through
subsidiaries of Zions First National Bank and the Parent. Zions Credit
Corporation, a subsidiary of Zions First National Bank, engages in lease
origination and servicing operations primarily in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona.
Zions Investment Securities, Inc., also a subsidiary of the Bank, provides
discount investment brokerage services on a nonadvisory basis to both commercial
and consumer customers. Personal investment officers employed by this discount
brokerage subsidiary provide customers with a wide range of investment products,
including municipal bond, mutual funds and tax-deferred annuities. Wasatch
Venture Corporation and Wasatch Venture Fund II, LLC provide early-stage
capital, primarily for technology companies located in the West. Zions Life
Insurance Company underwrites, as reinsurer, credit-related life and disability
insurance. Zions Insurance Agency, Inc. operates an insurance brokerage
business, which administers various credit-related insurance programs in the
Company's subsidiaries and sells general lines of insurance. Zions Management
Services Company provides administrative, data processing, and other services to
other subsidiaries of the Company.

COMPETITION

Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly competitive
environment due to the diverse financial services and products they offer.
Competitors include not only other banks, thrift institutions, credit unions,
and mutual funds, but also, insurance companies, finance companies, brokerage
firms, investment banking companies, and a variety of other financial services
and advisory companies. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same
regulatory restrictions as the Company. Most of these unregulated competitors
compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access to
meaningful alternatives to banking services in many significant products. These
competitive trends are likely to continue.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Zion Bancorporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank
Holding Company Act (the "Act") and is registered as such with the Federal
Reserve Board. The Company is required to file reports of its operations with
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to
examination by it. Under the Act, the Company is restricted as to the activities
in which it may engage and the nature of any company which it controls or holds
more than 5% of the voting stock. Generally, allowable activities are those
which are determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to
banking and a proper incident thereto. Additionally under the Act, prior
approval by the Board of Governors is required for a bank holding company to
acquire substantially all the assets of any domestic bank or savings association
or the ownership or control of more than 5% of its voting shares.

Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Branching and Efficiency Act of 1994, bank
holding companies which are adequately capitalized and managed are permitted to
acquire control of a bank located outside the bank holding company's home state
subject to certain limitations. The merger of commonly owned banks in different
states is also permitted except in states that have passed legislation to
prohibit such mergers. The statute also permits banks to establish branches
outside their home state in states that pass legislation to permit branch
banking.






The Federal Reserve Board has established risk-based capital guidelines for bank
holding companies. The Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve Board have also issued
regulations establishing capital requirements for banks under federal law.
Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Company and its
subsidiary banks to a variety of restrictions and enforcement remedies. See Note
17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding
risk-based capital requirements.

The Company's banking subsidiaries are also subject to various requirements and
restrictions in the laws of the U.S. and the states in which the banks operate.
These include restrictions on the amount of loans to a borrower and its
affiliates, the nature and amount of their investments, their ability to act as
an underwriter of securities, the opening of branches and the acquisition of
other banks or savings associations. The subsidiary banks are under the
supervision of, and are subject to periodic examination by, the OCC or the
respective state banking departments, and are subject to the rules and
regulations of the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and
the FDIC. They are also subject to certain laws of each state in which such
banks are located.

Dividends payable by the subsidiary banks to Zions Bancorporation are subject to
various legal and regulatory restrictions. These restrictions and the amount
available for the payment of dividends at year-end are summarized in Note 17 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989
("FIRREA") provides that a holding company's controlled insured depository
institutions are liable for any loss incurred by the FDIC in connection with the
default of any FDIC-assisted transaction involving an affiliated insured bank or
savings association.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA")
prescribes standards for safety and soundness of insured banks. These standards
relate to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan
documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth,
compensation, as well as other operational and management standards deemed
appropriate by the agencies.

The Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") requires banks to help serve the credit
needs in their communities, including credit to low and moderate income
individuals and geographies. Should the Company or its subsidiaries fail to
adequately serve the community, there are penalties which might be imposed
including denials of applications to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries
and affiliates and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.

Regulators and Congress continue to enact rules, laws, and policies to regulate
the industry and protect consumers. The nature of these regulations and the
effect of such policies on future business and earnings of the Company cannot be
predicted.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES

The earnings and business of the Company are affected not only by general
economic conditions, but also by fiscal and other policies adopted by various
governmental authorities. The Company is particularly affected by the policies
of the Federal Reserve Board which affects the national supply of bank credit.
The instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve





Board include open-market operations in United States government securities;
manipulation of the discount rates of member bank borrowings; imposing or
changing reserve requirements against member bank deposits; and imposing or
changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their
affiliates. These methods are used in varying combinations to influence the
overall growth of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the interest rates
charged on loans or paid for deposits.

In view of the changing conditions in the economy and the effect of the credit
policies of monetary authorities, it is difficult to predict future changes in
loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on the business
and earnings of the Company. Federal Reserve monetary policies have had a
significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and
are expected to continue to do so in the future.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 6,833 full- and
part-time people with approximately 5,850 being employed by the banking
subsidiaries. The Company had 7,099 full-time equivalent employees at December
31, 1998, compared to 4,652 at December 31, 1997. The Company believes that it
enjoys good employee relations. In addition to competitive salaries and wages,
Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries contribute to group medical plans,
group insurance plans, pension, and stock ownership plans.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Zions First National Bank operates 137 branches, of which 66 are owned by the
Company and 71 are on leased premises. For Vectra Bank Colorado, 32 of 55
branches are owned and the remaining 23 branches are on leased premises.
California Bank & Trust owns 17 of their 74 branches and leases the remaining 57
branch premises. Nevada State Bank operates 58 branches, of which 12 are owned
and 46 are on leased premises. In Arizona, 17 of 37 branches are owned and the
remaining 20 branches are on leased premises. In Washington, The Commerce Bank
of Washington operates 1 branch on leased premises. The annual rentals under
long-term leases for such banking premises are determined under various formulas
and include as various factors, operating costs, maintenance and taxes. The
Company's subsidiaries conducting lease financing, insurance, and discount
brokerage activities operate from leased premises.

For information regarding rental payments, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is the defendant in various legal proceedings arising in the normal
course of business. The Company does not believe the outcome of any such
proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
position, operations, or liquidity.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1999.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages, positions, and backgrounds of the Company's executive officers
as of February 11, 2000 are set forth as follows:











(1)  Officer of Zions First National Bank since 1990.
(2)  Officer of Zions First National Bank since 1977.
(3)  Member of the Board of Directors since 1994.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Principal market where the Company's common stock is traded:

Nasdaq:  ZION

High and low quarterly stock prices:



As of February 11, 2000, there were 6,480 common shareholders of the Company's
stock.

Frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last three years:








ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data is derived from the audited
consolidated financial statements of the Company. It should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and the related
notes and with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations and other detailed information included elsewhere herein.



(1)     Before amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangible assets and
        merger expense.

(2)     At year end

(3)     Amount represents the outstanding balance of loans and receivables sold
        and being serviced by the Company, excluding long- term first mortgage
        residential real estate loans.






ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

The following analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of
operations as of and for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the
Company and detailed information presented elsewhere herein.

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

Zions Bancorporation reported record earnings of $194.1 million or $2.26 per
share in 1999. Net income increased 35.4% over the $143.4 million earned in 1998
which was up 9.1% over the $131.4 million earned in 1997. On a diluted net
income per share basis, per share earned increased 29.1% to $2.26 in 1999
compared to $1.75 in 1998. Per share earnings decreased from $1.92 to $1.75, an
8.9% decrease, from 1997 to 1998. Dividends per share were $.72 per share in
1999, an increase of 33.3% over $.54 in 1998, which were up 14.9% from $.47 in
1997. Financial results have been restated for prior periods to reflect the
acquisition of Pioneer Bancorporation during 1999, which was accounted for as a
pooling of interests and considered significant. During 1999 the Company also
acquired Regency Bancorp in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. Results
of operations for Regency are included from October 1, 1999. The acquisitions of
Vectra Banking Corporation, FP Bancorp, Inc., and The Sumitomo Bank of
California during 1998 were accounted for as purchases. The results of
operations for Vectra Banking Corporation and FP Bancorp, Inc., were for
accounting convenience, included from effective dates of acquisition, January 1,
1998 and April 1, 1998, respectively, resulting in immaterial differences to
results of operations. Results of operations for Sumitomo Bank of California are
included from October 1, 1998, actual date of acquisition. Therefore, results of
operations can not be compared directly between periods.

Included in reported net income were after-tax merger expenses of $18.5 million
or $.22 per share in 1999 and $24.1 million or $.29 per share in 1998. Excluding
merger expenses, earnings for 1999 would have been $212.6 million or $2.48 per
share, an increase of 26.9% and 21.6%, respectively, over $167.5 or $2.04 for
1998. Merger expenses relate to the company's acquisitions as described in Note
2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The return on average shareholders' equity was 12.42% and the return on average
assets was 0.97% for 1999, compared with 10.98% and 1.00%, respectively, in
1998, and 19.40% and 1.35%, respectively, in 1997.

The Company is also providing its earnings performance on an operating cash
basis since it believes that its cash operating performance is a better
reflection of its financial position and shareholder value creation as well as
its ability to support growth and return capital to shareholders than reported
net income. Operating cash earnings are earnings before the amortization of
goodwill and core deposit intangible assets and merger expense.

Operating cash earnings were $243.8 million or $2.84 per share for 1999, an
increase of 25.4% and 19.8%, respectively, over the $194.4 or $2.37 per share
for 1998, which was up 40.5% and 16.7% over the $138.3 million or $2.03 per
share in 1997. The return on average shareholders' equity and the return on
average assets on an operating cash basis were 26.87% and 1.27%, respectively,
for 1999 compared to 26.56% and 1.41% for 1998 and 25.40% and 1.45% for 1997.







The strong performance of the Company was driven by a 54.9% growth in average
loans and leases and a 37.1% growth in average total earning assets that led to
a 29.8% increase in taxable-equivalent net interest income to $757.7 million in
1999. Noninterest income increased 26.8% to $266.5 million in 1998, with strong
growth in service charges, trust income, underwriting and trading income.
Noninterest expense, including merger expenses increased 22.4% to $681.6 million
in 1999. Excluding merger expenses, noninterest expense increased 26.1% over
1998. The increase in revenue and noninterest expense is mainly attributable to
the record growth of the Company during 1999 and 1998 through acquisitions and
expansion. The Company's efficiency ratio, or noninterest expenses as a
percentage of total taxable-equivalent net revenues, was 66.55% for 1999
compared to 70.10% for 1998 and 59.33% for 1997. The operating cash performance
efficiency ratio was 60.33% for 1999 compared to 61.32% for 1998 and 57.99% for
1997.

The Company's provision for loan losses totaled $18.0 million for 1999 compared
to $14.0 million for 1998. Net charge-offs were $29.0 million, or .25% of
average loans and leases in 1999 compared to $15.8 million or .21% in 1998.
Nonperforming assets increased to $75 million or .58% of loans and other real
estate owned on December 31, 1999 from $65 million or .58% on December 31, 1998.

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

The Company manages its operations and prepares management reports with a
primary focus on geographical area. Operating segments information is presented
in Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company allocates
centrally provided services to the business segments based upon estimated usage
of those services. The operating segment identified as other includes the
Parent, several smaller business units and inter-segment eliminations.

ZIONS FIRST NATIONAL BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES

Zions First National Bank and Subsidiaries include the Company's operations in
Utah and Idaho. The Bank experienced strong internal loan growth in 1999 with
loans increasing 16.4% over 1998. Net income increased 31.2% to $114.2 million
compared to $87.1 million for 1998 which was down 1.5% from the $88.5 million
earned in 1997. The increase in net income for 1999 compared to 1998 results
mainly from a $27.2 million increase in noninterest income and a $8.0 million
decrease in other noninterest expense. The increase in noninterest income for
1999 is mainly attributable to gains experienced by the Bank's venture capital
subsidiary, Wasatch Venture Corporation, and increased income from investments
in bank owned life insurance. The decrease in noninterest expense includes a
$4.6 million decrease in amortization of mortgage servicing rights resulting
from the Bank's sale of mortgage servicing rights during the first quarter of
1999. The decrease in net income for 1998 was due to a $23.0 million loan loss
provision in 1998. No provision for loan losses was required in 1997.

CALIFORNIA BANK & TRUST

Results of operations for California Bank & Trust for the years presented are
not directly comparable because of acquisitions accounted for as purchases
during 1999 and 1998. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for further information about the acquisitions.







California Bank & Trust reported net income of $49.4 million for 1999 compared
to $16.4 million for 1998 and $3.3 million for 1997. The increases in earnings
for 1999 and 1998 resulted mainly from the acquisitions consummated during those
years and increased efficiencies attained during 1999. Net income for 1998
included income only for the last three months of 1998 from the acquisition of
The Sumitomo Bank of California. The Bank incurred pre-tax merger charges of
$9.5 million during 1999 related mainly to the acquisition of Regency Bancorp
and $27.5 million during 1998 related to the Sumitomo and FP Bancorp, Inc.
acquisitions.

VECTRA BANK COLORADO

In January 1998 the Company acquired Vectra Banking Corporation in a transaction
accounted for as a purchase. Vectra had total assets of $703 million, loans of
$413 million and deposits of $556 million. During 1998 the Company also acquired
eight smaller banks in Colorado. The acquired banks, along with previously owned
Colorado banking organizations, were merged during 1998 under the name of Vectra
Bank Colorado, National Association. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information about the acquisitions.

Net income for Vectra Bank Colorado decreased 44.0% to $2.0 million from $3.6
million in 1998 which was up 63.3% from the $2.2 million earned in 1997. Pre-tax
merger expenses of $4.3 million were incurred during 1998 in connection with the
acquisitions. The decreased earnings for 1999 were in part attributable to the
expenses related to the conversion of acquired banks to Zions' systems. The
increased earnings for 1998 resulted from the acquisition of Vectra and other
banks in 1998 and strong loan growth.

NATIONAL BANK OF ARIZONA

Net income at National Bank of Arizona was up 18.1% to $26.2 million in 1999 as
compared to $22.2 million in 1998 and $17.8 million for 1997. The increases for
both 1999 and 1998 were driven by strong loan growth. Noninterest income for
1999 increased to $13.0 million from $9.3 for 1998, an increase of 39.8%. The
increase in noninterest income for 1999 included a $2.0 million increase in
service charges and other fee income, $1.0 million from a new trust operation
started in Arizona during 1998, and $.7 million from increased investments in
bank owned life insurance.

NEVADA STATE BANK

Net income at Nevada State Bank decreased 31.4% to $18.5 million as compared to
$27.0 million in 1998 and $22.2 million for 1997. The decrease for 1999 resulted
mainly from the Bank's incurring $12.6 million of pre-tax merger expense related
to the acquisition of Pioneer Bancorporation. Net interest income increased
10.3% for 1999 compared to 1998 and 27.5% for 1998 compared to 1997.

THE COMMERCE BANK OF WASHINGTON

The Commerce Bank of Washington was acquired in September 1998 and accounted for
as a pooling of interests. The bank operates one branch located in Seattle,
Washington. Net income for 1999 was $5.7 million compared to net income of $.1
million for 1998 and $4.5 million for 1997. The increase in earnings for 1999
compared to 1998 is mainly due to $7.7 million of pre-tax merger expense
incurred by the Bank in 1998.






OTHER

Other includes the parent only and other various nonbank subsidiaries. The
increased net loss for 1999 compared to 1998 of $9.1 million is mainly due to
increased net interest (loss) incurred by the holding company of $10.4 million
related to increased borrowings for the purchase of First Security Corporation
common stock and other matters.

INCOME STATEMENT ANALYSIS

NET INTEREST INCOME, MARGIN AND INTEREST RATE SPREADS

Net interest income on a tax-equivalent basis is the difference between interest
earned on assets and interest paid on liabilities, with adjustments made to
present income on assets exempt from income taxes comparable to other taxable
income. Changes in the mix and volume of earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities, their related yields and overall interest rates have a major impact
on earnings. In 1999, taxable-equivalent net interest income provided 74.0% of
the Company's net revenues, compared with 73.5% in 1998 and 71.9% in 1997.

The Company's taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by 29.8% to
$757.7 million in 1999 as compared to $583.9 million in 1998 and $379.1 million
in 1997. The increased level of taxable-equivalent net interest income was
driven by a 37.1% and 44.9% growth in average earning assets for 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The Company manages its earnings sensitivity to interest rate
movements, in part, by matching the repricing characteristics of its assets and
liabilities and, to a lesser extent, through the use of off-balance sheet
arrangements such as caps, floors and interest rate exchange contracts. Net
interest income from the use of such off-balance sheet arrangements for 1999 was
$8.3 million compared to $6.9 million in 1998 and $2.5 million in 1997.

The increase in net interest income was partially offset by the continued
securitization and sale of loans. Securitized loan sales convert net interest
income from loans to gains on loan sales and servicing revenue reported in
noninterest income. Loan sales improve the Company's liquidity, limit its
exposure to credit losses, and may reduce its capital requirements.

The net interest margin, the ratio of taxable-equivalent net interest income to
average earning assets, was 4.31% in 1999, 4.56% in 1998 and 4.29% in 1997. The
decrease in the margin for 1999 was primarily due to continued robust loan
growth financed by short-term funding sources instead of traditional core
deposit growth normally experienced by the Company.

Schedule 1 analyzes the average balances, the amount of interest earned or paid,
and the applicable rates for the various categories of earning assets and
interest-bearing funds which represent the components of net interest income.

Schedule 2 analyzes the year-to-year changes in net interest income on a fully
taxable-equivalent basis for the years shown. In the schedules, the principal
amounts of nonaccrual and renegotiated loans have been included in the average
loan balances used to determine the rate earned on loans. Interest income on
nonaccrual loans is included in income only to the extent that cash payments
have been received and not applied to principal reductions. Interest on
restructured loans is generally accrued at reduced rates.

The incremental tax rate used for calculating the taxable-equivalent adjustment
was 35% for all years presented.






SCHEDULE 1
DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, YIELDS AND RATES




- -----------------
(1)  Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

(2)  Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include
     nonaccrual and restructured loans.











SCHEDULE 2
ANALYSIS OF INTEREST CHANGES DUE TO VOLUME AND RATE





PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES

The provision for loan losses reflects management's judgment of the expense to
be recognized in order to maintain an adequate allowance for loan losses. See
the discussion on allowance for loan losses under Risk Elements. The provision
for loan losses was $18.0 million in 1999 compared to $14.0 million in 1998 and
$5.9 million in 1997. The provision was .15% of average loans for 1999, .18% in
1998 and .13% for 1997.





NONINTEREST INCOME

Noninterest income comprised 26.0% of net revenue in 1999 compared to 26.5% in
1998 and 28.1% in 1997. Noninterest income was $266.5 million in 1999, an
increase of 26.8% over $210.2 million in 1998, which was up 41.7% over $148.3
million in 1997. Noninterest income for 1998 included $5.3 million from Sumitomo
since the acquisition date. Without Sumitomo, noninterest income increased 38.2%
from 1997. Schedule 3 shows the major components of noninterest income.

SCHEDULE 3
NONINTEREST INCOME



The 25.7% and 36.7% increases in deposit service charges for 1999 and 1998
reflect the continued increase of the Company's average deposit base through
acquisitions and internal growth, as well as price adjustments. Other service
charges, commissions and fees, which include investment brokerage and fiscal
agent fees, electronic delivery system fees, insurance commissions, merchant fee
income and other miscellaneous fees were $66.1 million in 1999, an increase of
16.0% over 1998 which was 39.4% above 1997. Loan sales and servicing income
decreased 19.6% in 1999 to $40.5 million over $50.4 million in 1998 which was
30.2% above 1997. The decrease in loan sales and servicing income for 1999 was
mainly the result of a Company decision to decrease its mortgage origination and
servicing activities resulting in decreased loan servicing income and gains on
sales as well as decreased expense. Underwriting and trading income increased
25.0% to $11.5 million in 1999 from $9.2 million in 1998, and $5.7 million in
1997. During 1998, the Company commenced the providing of online executable
government bond sales over Bloomberg and the Internet and the underwriting of
municipal revenue bonds which resulted in increased revenues for 1999 and 1998.

Trust income increased to $15.8 million in 1999, up 43.6% from 1998, which was
up 35.8% from 1997. Other income, which includes certain fees, income from
investments in bank-owned life insurance, income from Wasatch Venture
Corporation's venture funding operations, income from unconsolidated
subsidiaries and associated companies, net gains on sales of fixed assets and
other assets, and other items was $58.8 million in 1999 an increase of 237.9%
from 1998. The increase for 1999 was mainly due to increased income from
operations of Wasatch Venture Corporation and income from bank-owned life
insurance policies.





Included in other noninterest income for 1999 is $42.6 million of net gains from
securities held by the Company's venture capital subsidiary, Wasatch Venture
Corporation. Consolidated net income for 1999 includes approximately $22.9 from
Wasatch Venture Corporation's operations for the year. During 1999 the Company
also recognized impairment and other losses related to SBA interest only strips
of $8.3 million, which decreased other noninterest income.

NONINTEREST EXPENSE

The Company's noninterest expense was $681.6 million in 1999, an increase of
22.4% over $556.7 million in 1998, which was up 77.9% over the $312.9 million in
1997. Included in 1999 and 1998 expense was $27.7 million and $38.1 million,
respectively, in merger expenses related to the Company's acquisitions. Schedule
4 shows the major components of noninterest expense.

SCHEDULE 4
NONINTEREST EXPENSE



In 1999 and 1998, salaries and employee benefits increased primarily as a result
of increased staffing from acquisitions and the opening of new offices, as well
as general salary increases and bonuses which are based on increased
profitability. The occupancy, furniture and equipment expense increase resulted
primarily from the addition of office facilities, installation of personal
computers and local area networks and expenses related to technology
initiatives. The increase in all other expenses resulted primarily from
increases related to acquisitions and expansion and increased expenditures in
selected areas to enhance revenue growth. Also expenses for 1998 only include
operations of The Sumitomo Bank of California for the last quarter of the year
since the bank was acquired in a purchase transaction on October 1, 1998.

On December 31, 1999, the Company had 6,833 full-time equivalent employees and
362 offices compared to 7,099 employees and 345 offices at year-end 1998. On
December 31, 1997, the Company had 4,652 full-time equivalent employees and 241
offices. The reduction in FTE was mainly the result of a hiring freeze put in
place related to the pending merger with First Security Corporation and a
reduced FTE related to a reduction in mortgage servicing and origination
activities.





The Company's operating cash "efficiency ratio," or noninterest expenses,
excluding amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangibles and merger
expenses, as a percentage of total taxable-equivalent net revenues, decreased to
60.3% in 1999 compared to 61.3% in 1998 and 58.0% in 1997.

INCOME TAXES

The Company's income tax expense for 1999 was $109.5 million compared to $69.6
million in 1998 and $67.7 million in 1997. The Company's effective income tax
rate was 35.5% in 1999, 32.6% in 1998 and 34.0% in 1997. The lower effective tax
rate for 1998 resulted primarily from decisions regarding a corporate
reorganization in 1998. The increased rate for 1999 is mainly due to a higher
percentage of the Company's income being generated in states with higher tax
rates and increased nondeductible goodwill amortization.

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

EARNING ASSETS

Earning assets consist of money market investments, securities and loans. A
comparative average balance sheet report, including earning assets, is presented
in Schedule 1.

Average earning assets increased 37.1% to $17,560 million in 1999 compared to
$12,811 million in 1998. Earning assets comprised 88.2% of total average assets
in 1999 compared with 89.0% in 1998.

Average money market investments, consisting of interest-bearing deposits,
federal funds sold and security resell agreements decreased 27.3% to $1,185
million in 1999 compared to $1,629 million in 1998.

Average securities increased 28.4% to $4,556 million in 1999, compared to $3,549
million in 1998. Average held to maturity securities increased 44.3% to $3,277
million, available for sale securities decreased 12.8% to $741 million and
trading account securities increased 25.2% to $538 million.

Average net loans and leases increased 54.9% to $11,819 million in 1999 compared
to $7,632 million in 1998, representing 67.3% of earning assets in 1999 compared
to 59.6% in 1998. Average net loans and leases were 83.9% of average total
deposits in 1998, as compared to 74.6% in 1998.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO

Schedule 5 presents the Company's year-end investment securities on December 31,
1999, 1998, and 1997. Schedule 6 presents the Company's maturities and average
yields on securities on December 31, 1999. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information about securities.





SCHEDULE 5
INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO








SCHEDULE 6
MATURITIES AND AVERAGE YIELDS ON SECURITIES
ON DECEMBER 31, 1999




*Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

LOAN PORTFOLIO

During 1999, the Company consummated securitized loan sales of automobile loans,
credit card receivables, home equity credit lines, Small Business Administration
and Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ("Farmer Mac") loans totaling $982
million. The Company also sold $879 million of long-term residential mortgage
loans, SBA loans, Farmer Mac loans and student loans classified as held for
sale. After these sales, loans and leases on December 31, 1999 totaled $12,853
million, an increase of 14.0% compared to $11,270. million on December 31, 1998.

Schedule 7 sets forth the amount of loans outstanding by type on December 31 for
the years indicated and the maturity distribution and sensitivity to changes in
interest rates of the portfolio on December 31, 1999.





SCHEDULE 7
LOAN PORTFOLIO BY TYPE



SOLD LOANS BEING SERVICED

On December 31, 1999, long-term first mortgage real estate loans serviced for
others amounted to $237 million compared to $1,995 million on December 31, 1998,
and $1,897 million on December 31, 1997. During 1999 the Company merged Zions
Mortgage Company, its wholly-owned mortgage company into Zions First National
Bank, sold most of its mortgage servicing and outsourced servicing retained on
long-term first mortgage real estate loans.

Consumer and other loan securitizations serviced, which relate primarily to
loans sold under revolving securitization structures, totaled $1,252 million on
December 31, 1999, $1,040 million on December 31, 1998, and $1,050 million on
December 31, 1997.

The Company's activity in its sold loans being serviced portfolio (excluding
long-term first mortgage real estate loans) is summarized as follows:





SCHEDULE 8
SOLD LOANS BEING SERVICED



DEPOSITS AND BORROWED FUNDS

As derived from Schedule 1, total average deposits increased 37.8% to $14,088
million in 1999 from $10,225 million in 1998. Average noninterest-bearing
deposits increased 32.7%, average savings and NOW deposits increased 35.4%,
average money market and super NOW deposits increased 48.7%, and average time
deposits under $100,000 increased 26.3%. Average time deposits over $100,000
increased 40.5% over 1998 average balances and average foreign deposits
decreased 9.4% for 1999, as compared with 1998.

Total deposits decreased 1.1% to $14,062 million on December 31, 1999 as
compared to $14,221 million on December 31, 1998. Comparing December 31, 1999 to
December 31, 1998, demand deposits decreased 3.5%, savings and money market
deposits increased 17.1%, time deposits under $100,000 decreased 24.7%, while
time deposits over $100,000 decreased 34.1% and foreign deposits increased 2.7%.

See Notes 9, 10 and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the
discussion under Liquidity Risk Management for information on borrowed funds.

CAPITAL

The Company's basic financial objective is to consistently produce superior
risk-adjusted returns on its shareholders' capital. The Company believes that a
strong capital position is vital to continued profitability and to promote
depositor and investor confidence. The Company's goal is to steadily achieve a
high return on shareholders' equity, while at the same time maintaining
"risk-based capital" of not less than the "well-capitalized" threshold, as
defined by federal banking regulators.

Total shareholders' equity on December 31, 1999 was $1,660 million, an increase
of 14.3% over the $1,453 million on December 31, 1998. The ratio of average
equity to average assets for the year 1999 was 7.85%, compared to 9.06% for
1998.

During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company repurchased and retired 115,769, 591,009
and 3,649,018 shares of its common stock at a cost of $6.7 million, $25.7
million and $121.4 million, respectively.





On December 31, 1999, the Company's Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.16%, as compared
to 5.91% on December 31, 1998. On December 31, 1999, the Company's Tier 1
risk-based capital ratio was 8.64%, as compared to 8.40% on December 31, 1998.
On December 31, 1999 the Company's total risk-based capital ratio was 11.29%, as
compared to 11.34% on December 31, 1998. Regulatory minimum capital adequacy
ratios for Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based
capital are 3%, 4% and 8%, respectively. Ratios to be considered well
capitalized are 5%, 6% and 10%, respectively. See Note 17 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on risk-based
capital.

DIVIDENDS

Dividends per share were $.72 in 1999, an increase of 33.3% over $.54 in 1998,
which were up 14.9% over $.47 in 1997. The Company's quarterly dividend rate was
$.11 for the first quarter of 1997, increasing to $.12 per share for the second,
third and fourth quarters of 1997 and the first quarter of 1998, increasing to
$.14 per share for the second, third and fourth quarters of 1998 and the first
quarter of 1999. The dividend rate for the second and third quarters of 1999 was
$.29 and no dividend was declared during the fourth quarter of 1999.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS

Zions First National Bank opened a foreign office located in Grand Cayman, Grand
Cayman Islands, B.W.I. in 1980. The office accepts Eurodollar deposits from
qualified customers of the Bank and places deposits with foreign banks and
foreign branches of other U.S. banks. Foreign deposits at December 31, totaled
$210 million in 1999, 204 million in 1998 and 183 million in 1997; and averaged
165 million for 1999, $182 million for 1998 and $142 million for 1997. See
Schedule 7 Loan Portfolio by Type for foreign loans outstanding.

RISK ELEMENTS

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

Management of credit risk is essential in maintaining a safe and sound
institution. The Company has structured its organization to separate the lending
function from the credit administration function to strengthen the control and
independent evaluation of credit activities. Loan policies and procedures
provide the Company with a framework for consistent underwriting and a basis for
sound credit decisions. In addition, the Company has well-defined standards for
grading its loan portfolio, and management utilizes a comprehensive loan grading
system to determine risk potential in the portfolio. A separate internal credit
examination department periodically conducts examinations of the quality,
documentation and administration of the Company's lending departments, and
submits reports thereon to a committee of the board of directors. Emphasis is
placed on early detection of potential problem credits so that action plans can
be developed on a timely basis to mitigate losses.

Another aspect of the Company's credit risk management strategy is the
diversification of the loan portfolio. At year end, the Company had 2% of its
portfolio in loans held for sale, 24% in commercial loans, 67% in real estate
loans, 5% in consumer loans, and 2% in lease financing. The Company's real
estate portfolio is also diversified. Of the total portfolio, 20% is in real
estate construction loans, 3% is in home equity credit lines, 29% is in 1-4
family residential loans and 48% is in commercial loans secured by real estate.
The Company's commercial real estate concentration is in part mitigated by its
emphasis of lending programs sponsored by the Small





Business Administration, which carries the preponderance of credit risk on these
types of loans. The Company also focuses on the provision of commercial real
estate credit to borrowers that occupy the facility. In addition, the Company
attempts to avoid the risk of an undue concentration of credits in a particular
industry or trade group. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on concentrations of credit risk. The Company
has no significant exposure to highly leveraged transactions. Most of the
Company's business activity is with customers located within the states of Utah,
Idaho, California, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada and Washington. Also, the Company
does not have significant exposure to any individual customer or counterparty.

NONPERFORMING ASSETS

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured loans and other real
estate owned. Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when the loan is
90 days or more past due as to principal or interest, unless the loan is in the
process of collection and well-secured. Consumer loans are not placed on a
nonaccrual status, inasmuch as they are generally charged off when they become
120 days past due. Loans are restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of
interest or principal payments when the financial condition of the borrower
deteriorates and requires that the borrower be given temporary or permanent
relief from the original contractual terms of the credit. Other real estate
owned is primarily acquired through or in lieu of foreclosure on credits secured
by real estate.

The Company's nonperforming assets were $75 million on December 31, 1999, up
from $65 million on December 31, 1998. Such nonperforming assets as a percentage
of net loans and leases, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets
were .58% on December 31, 1999, the same as on December 31, 1998.

Accruing loans past due 90 days or more totaled $21 million on December 31,
1999, down from $26 million on December 31, 1998. These loans equaled .16% of
net loans and leases on December 31, 1999, as compared to .23% on December 31,
1998.

No loans were considered potential problem loans on December 31, 1999 or 1998.
Potential problem loans are defined as loans presently on accrual and not
contractually past due 90 days or more and not restructured, but about which
management has serious doubt as to the future ability of the borrower to comply
with present repayment terms and which may result in the reporting of the loans
as nonperforming assets in the future.

The Company's total recorded investment in impaired loans included in nonaccrual
loans and leases amounted to $57.1 million and $41.8 million on December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company considers a loan to be impaired when
the accrual of interest has been discontinued and meets other criteria under the
statements. The amount of the impairment is measured based on the present value
of expected cash flows, the observable market price of the loan, or the fair
value of the collateral. Impairment losses are included in the allowance for
loan losses through a provision for loan losses. Included in the allowance for
loan losses on December 31, 1999 and 1998, is an allowance of $16 million and $5
million, respectively, on $22.5 million and $11.6 million, respectively, of the
recorded investment in impaired loans. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information on impaired loans.





SCHEDULE 9
NONPERFORMING ASSETS







ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The Company's allowance for loan losses was 1.60% of net loans and leases on
December 31, 1999 compared to 1.89% on December 31, 1998. Net charge-offs in
1999 were $30 million, or .25% of average loans and leases, compared to net
charge-offs of $16 million, or .21% of average net loans and leases in 1998 and
net charge-offs of $8 million, or .19% of average net loans and leases in 1997.

The allowance, as a percentage of nonaccrual loans and restructured loans, was
310.87% on December 31, 1999, compared to 354.94% on December 31, 1998 and
655.59% on December 31, 1997. The allowance, as a percentage of nonaccrual loans
and accruing loans past due 90 days or more was 238.07% on December 31, 1999,
compared to 264.20% on December 31, 1998, and 389.19% on December 31, 1997.

On December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the allowance for loan losses includes an
allocation of $23 million, $20 million and $9 million, respectively, related to
commitments to extend credit on loans and standby letters of credit. Commitments
to extend credit on loans and standby letters of credit on December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, totaled $6,001 million, $5,090 million, and $2,706 million,
respectively. The Company's actual future credit exposure is much lower than the
contractual amounts of the commitments because a significant portion of the
commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon.

In analyzing the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses, management
utilizes a comprehensive loan grading system to determine risk potential in the
portfolio, and considers the results of independent internal and external credit
review. To determine the adequacy of the allowance, the Company's loan and lease
portfolio is broken into segments based on loan type. Historical loss experience
factors by segment, adjusted for changes in trends and conditions, are used in
determining the required allowance for each segment. Historical loss factors are
evaluated and updated using migration analysis techniques and other
considerations based on the makeup of the specific portfolio segment. Other
considerations such as volumes and trends of delinquencies, nonaccruals,
repossessions and bankruptcies, criticized and classified loan trends, current
and anticipated foreclosure losses, new products and policies, economic
conditions, concentrations of credit risk, and experience and abilities of
lending personnel are also considered in establishing the loss factors.

All loans graded substandard in the amount of $1 million or more and all credits
graded doubtful in the amount of $100 thousand or more are individually
evaluated based on facts and circumstances of the loan and a specific allowance
amount designated. Specific allowances may also be established for loans in
amounts below the specified thresholds when it is determined that the risk
differs significantly from factor amounts established for the category. Although
management has allocated a portion of the allowance to specific loan categories
using the methods described, the adequacy of the allowance must be considered in
its entirety. To mitigate the imprecision in most estimates of expected credit
losses, the allocated component of the allowance is supplemented by an
unallocated component. The unallocated portion of the allowance includes
management's judgmental determination of the amounts necessary for subjective
factors such as economic uncertainties and concentration risks. Accordingly, the
relationship of the unallocated component to the total allowance for loan losses
may fluctuate from period to period. Schedule 10 provides a breakdown of the
allowance for loan losses by





loan category and Schedule 11 summarizes loan loss experience. The increases in
the allocated allowance at year-end 1999 and 1998 compared to year-end 1997 for
commercial, financial and agricultural and real estate loans are a result of the
acquisition of The Sumitomo Bank of California.

SCHEDULE 10
ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES







SCHEDULE 11
SUMMARY OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE




MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT

Market risk is the possibility that changes in interest rates or equity
securities prices will impair the fair value of the Company's financial
instruments. The Asset/Liability Committee (ALCOM) measures and reviews the
market risk of the Company and establishes policies and procedures to limit its
exposure to changes in interest rates. These policies are reviewed and approved
by the Boards of Directors of the Company's subsidiary banks. ALCOM objectives
are summarized as follows: ensure the safety and soundness of bank deposits,
while providing an appropriate return





to shareholders; provide the basis for integrated balance sheet, net interest
income and liquidity management; calculate the duration, dollar duration, and
convexity of each class of assets, liabilities, and net equity given defined
interest rate scenarios; manage the Company's exposure to changes in net
interest income and market value of equity due to interest rate fluctuations;
quantify the effect of hedging instruments on the market value of equity and net
interest income under defined interest rate scenarios; and identify and report
any risk exposures that exceed limitations approved by the Board of Directors.

Interest rate risk is the most significant market risk regularly undertaken by
the Company. This risk is monitored through the use of two complementary
measurement methods: equity duration and income simulation.

Equity duration is derived by first calculating the dollar duration of all
assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet investments. Dollar duration is
determined by calculating the market value of each instrument assuming interest
rates sustain immediate and parallel movements up 1% and down 1%. The average of
these two changes in market value is the dollar duration, which incorporates the
value of embedded and explicit options within each instrument. Subtracting the
dollar duration of liabilities from the dollar duration of assets and adding the
net dollar duration of off-balance sheet items results in the dollar duration of
equity. Duration of equity is computed by dividing the dollar duration of equity
by the market value of equity.

Income simulation is an estimate of the net interest income which would be
recognized under different rate environments. Net interest income is measured
under several parallel and non-parallel interest rate environments and considers
the possible exercise of options within the portfolio.

At year-end, the Company's duration of equity was estimated to be approximately
3.4 years. A 200 basis point immediate increase in rates was estimated to
increase the duration of equity to 4.4 years. Conversely, an immediate decrease
in rates of similar magnitude was estimated to decrease the duration of equity
to 2.5 years. Company policy requires that all three of these measures be
between 0 and 7 years.

For income simulation, Company policy requires that net interest income not be
expected to decline by more than 10% during one year if rates were to
immediately rise or fall by 200 basis points. At year-end, net interest income
was expected to decline 0.6% if interest rates were to sustain an immediate
increase of 200 basis points. If interest rates were to similarly decline 200
basis points, net interest income would be expected to decrease 2.3%. These
estimates include management's assumptions regarding loan and deposit pricing,
security and loan prepayments, and changing relationships to market rates.

Management exercises its best judgment in making assumptions regarding loan and
security prepayments, early deposit withdrawals, and other non-controllable
events in managing the Company's exposure to changes in interest rates. The
interest rate risk position is actively managed and changes daily as the
interest rate environment changes; therefore, positions at the end of any period
may not be reflective of the Company's position in any subsequent period.

At year-end the one-year gap for the Company was negative $313 million: i.e.,
the $11,130 million of assets that mature or reprice during 2000 was less than
the sum of $10,631 million of liabilities and the $812 million net effect of
off-balance sheet swaps that mature or reprice during





the same period. This gap represented 1.5% of total assets. Detail of the
repricing characteristics of the balance sheet as of year-end are presented in
Schedule 12. The Company does not have policy limits regarding its gap position.

SCHEDULE 12
MATURITIES AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY
ON DECEMBER 31, 1999








The Company, through the management of maturities and repricing of its assets
and liabilities and the use of off-balance sheet arrangements, including
interest rate caps, floors, futures, options and exchange agreements, attempts
to manage the effect on net interest income of changes in interest rates. The
prime lending rate is the primary basis used for pricing the Company's loans and
the 91-day Treasury bill rate is the index used for pricing many of the
Company's deposits. The Company, however, is unable to economically hedge the
prime/T-bill spread risk through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Interest rate swap maturities and average rates are presented in Schedule 13.
For additional information regarding off-balance sheet financial contracts,
refer to Notes 1, 12 and 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

SCHEDULE 13
INTEREST RATE SWAP MATURITIES AND AVERAGE RATES



LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company manages its liquidity to provide adequate funds to meet its
financial obligations, including withdrawals by depositors and debt service
requirements as well as to fund customers' demand for credit. Liquidity is
primarily provided by the regularly scheduled maturities of the Company's
investment and loan portfolios. Management of the maturities of these portfolios
is an important source of medium- to long-term liquidity. The Company's ability
to raise funds in the capital markets through the securitization process allows
it to take advantage of market opportunities to meet funding needs at a
reasonable cost.

To meet the Company's short-term liquidity needs, on December 31, 1999 the
Company had cash, money market investments, and liquid securities net of
short-term or "purchased" liabilities and foreign deposits, of $618 million or
4.8% of core deposits. The Company's core deposits, consisting of demand,
savings, money market, and time deposits under $100,000, constituted 90.8% of
total deposits at year-end.

The Parent Company's cash requirements consist primarily of debt service,
dividends to shareholders, operating expenses, income taxes and share
repurchases. The Parent's cash needs are routinely met through dividends from
subsidiaries, proportionate shares of current income taxes, management and other
fees, unaffiliated bank lines and debt issuance.

At December 31, 1999, $55.5 million of dividend capacity was available from
subsidiaries to pay to the Parent without having to obtain regulatory approval.
During 1999, dividends from subsidiaries were $109.9 million. During 1998 the
Company started a program to issue short-term commercial paper. At December 31,
1999 outstanding commercial paper was $239 million. At December 31, 1999 the
Parent had revolving credit facilities with two banks totaling $50 million. On
that date, the balance outstanding on these bank lines was $25 million.





YEAR 2000

The Company has successfully completed its Year 2000 program efforts and as of
the date of this report has experienced no significant problems with its systems
as a result of the Year 2000 date change. The Company also received no reports
of significant customer problems related to the Year 2000 change that could put
the Company at risk. The Company will continue to monitor systems activities
related to identified additional critical dates during and beyond 2000.

The aggregate estimated increase in operating expense for the Company to achieve
Year 2000 readiness was approximately $3 million which was incurred in 1999 and
prior. In addition, a significant portion of the Company's personal computers
were replaced during 1999 to achieve Year 2000 compliance. The capital outlay to
replace these assets was approximately $3 million, a portion of which would also
have been incurred in the ordinary course of business without regard to Year
2000 issues.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Statements in Management's Discussion and Analysis that are not based on
historical data are forward-looking, including, for example, the projected
performance of Zions and its operations. These statements constitute
forward-looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from the
projections discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis since such
projections involve significant risks and uncertainties. Factors that might
cause such differences include, but are not limited to: the timing of closing
proposed acquisitions being delayed or such acquisitions being prohibited,
competitive pressures among financial institutions increasing significantly;
economic conditions, either nationally or locally in areas in which Zions
conducts its operations, being less favorable than expected; and legislation or
regulatory changes which adversely affect the Company's operations or business.
Zions disclaims any obligation to update any factors or to publicly announce the
result of revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein to
reflect future events or developments.





CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

The following consolidated condensed statements of income present earnings and
operating cash earnings information as restated. The Company has restated prior
year financial information for a significant acquisition accounted for as a
pooling of interests. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for further information on the acquisition.



- ------------------
(1)  Before amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangible assets and
     merger expense.





ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Zions Bancorporation:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zions
Bancorporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
related consolidated statements of income, cash flows, and changes in
shareholders' equity and comprehensive income for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 1999. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Zions Bancorporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



                                                 /s/ KPMG LLP

Salt Lake City, Utah
February 7, 2000





                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998

                      (In thousands, except share amounts)





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Statements of Income

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                      (In thousands, except share amounts)





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                                 (In thousands)





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                            and Comprehensive Income

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                      (In thousands, except share amounts)









                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

               Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders'
                         Equity and Comprehensive Income

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                      (In thousands, except share amounts)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(1)   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      BUSINESS - Zions Bancorporation (the Parent) is a multibank holding
      company organized under the laws of Utah in 1955, which provides a full
      range of banking and related services through its subsidiaries operating
      primarily in Utah, Idaho, California, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, and
      Washington.

      BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION - The consolidated financial
      statements include the accounts of Zions Bancorporation and its
      subsidiaries (the Company). All significant intercompany accounts and
      transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior year
      amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial
      statement presentation. In addition, consolidated financial statements for
      all periods presented have been restated to include the results of
      operations, financial position and cash flows for the 1999 acquisition of
      Pioneer Bancorporation, which was accounted for as a pooling of interests.

      The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity
      with generally accepted accounting principles and prevailing practices
      within the financial services industry. In preparing the consolidated
      financial statements, management is required to make estimates and
      assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as
      of the date of the balance sheet and revenues and expenses for the period.
      Actual results could differ from those estimates.

      SECURITY RESELL AGREEMENTS - Security resell agreements represent
      overnight and term agreements, the majority maturing within 30 days.
      Either the Company or, in some instances, third parties on behalf of the
      Company take possession of underlying securities. The market value of such
      securities is monitored throughout the contract term to ensure that asset
      value remains sufficient to protect against counterparty default. Security
      resell agreements averaged approximately $1,038 million during 1999, and
      the maximum amount outstanding at any month-end during 1999 was $1,525
      million.

      SECURITIES - The Company classifies its securities according to their
      purpose and holding period. Gains or losses on the sale of securities are
      recognized on a specific identification method and recorded in noninterest
      income.

      Held to maturity securities, primarily debt securities, are stated at
      cost, net of unamortized premiums and unaccreted discounts. The Company
      has the intent and the ability to hold such securities until maturity.

      Debt securities that may not be held until maturity and marketable equity
      securities are classified as available for sale and are reported at fair
      value, with unrealized gains and losses, after applicable taxes, reported
      as a component of cumulative other comprehensive income. Declines in the
      value of debt securities and marketable equity securities that are
      considered other than temporary are recorded in noninterest income.

      Securities acquired for a short-term appreciation or other trading
      purposes are classified as trading securities and are recorded at fair
      value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses resulting from such fair
      value adjustments and from recording the results of sales are recorded in
      trading income.

      The market values of available for sale and trading securities are
      generally based on quoted market prices or dealer quotes. If a quoted
      market price is not available, market value is estimated using quoted
      market prices for similar securities.




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      NONMARKETABLE SECURITIES - Nonmarketable securities include venture
      capital securities and securities acquired for various debt and regulatory
      requirements. Venture capital securities are reported at estimated fair
      values, in the absence of readily ascertainable market values. Changes in
      fair value and gains and losses from sales are recognized in noninterest
      income. The values assigned to the securities where no market quotation
      exists are based upon available information and may not necessarily
      represent amounts that will ultimately be realized. Such estimated amounts
      depend on future circumstances. These estimated amounts will not be
      realized until the individual securities are liquidated. The valuation
      procedures applied include consideration of economic and market
      conditions, current and projected financial performance of the investee
      company, and the investee company's management team. Management believes
      that the cost of an investment is initially considered the best indication
      of estimated fair value unless there have been significant subsequent
      positive or negative developments that justify an adjustment in the fair
      value estimate. Other nonmarketable securities acquired for various debt
      and regulatory requirements are accounted for at cost. These nonmarketable
      securities are included in other assets on the Company's balance sheet.

      LOANS - Loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of
      unearned income. Unearned income, which includes deferred fees net of
      deferred direct incremental loan origination costs, is amortized to
      interest income generally over the life of the loan using an interest
      method or the straight-line method if it is not materially different.

      Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or market value
      because the Company does not intend to hold these loans until maturity or
      sales of loans are pending. Gains and losses are recorded in noninterest
      income, based on the difference between sales proceeds and carrying value.

      NONACCRUAL LOANS - Loans are generally placed on a nonaccrual status when
      principal or interest is past due 90 days or more unless the loan is both
      well-secured and in the process of collection, or when in the opinion of
      management, full collection of principal or interest is unlikely.
      Generally, consumer loans are not placed on a nonaccrual status, inasmuch
      as they are generally charged off when they become 120 days past due.
      Generally, a loan may be returned to accrual status when all delinquent
      interest and principal become current in accordance with the terms of the
      loan agreement or when the loan is both well-secured and in the process of
      collection.

      IMPAIRED LOANS - Loans, other than those included in large groups of
      smaller-balance homogeneous loans, are considered impaired when, based on
      current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be
      unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of
      the loan agreement, including scheduled interest payments. For a loan that
      has been restructured, the contractual terms of the loan agreement refer
      to the contractual terms specified by the original loan agreement, not the
      contractual terms specified by the restructuring agreement.

      This assessment for impairment occurs when and while such loans are on
      nonaccrual, or the loan has been restructured. When a loan with unique
      risk characteristics has been identified as being impaired, the amount of
      impairment will be measured by the Company using discounted cash flows,
      except when it is determined that the sole (remaining) source of repayment
      for the loan is the operation or liquidation of the underlying collateral.
      In such cases, the current fair value of the collateral, reduced by costs
      to sell, will be used in place of discounted cash flows.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      If the measurement of the impaired loan is less than the recorded
      investment in the loan (including accrued interest, net deferred loan fees
      or costs and unamortized premium or discount), an impairment is recognized
      by creating or adjusting an existing allocation of the allowance for loan
      losses.

      RESTRUCTURED LOANS - In cases where a borrower experiences financial
      difficulties and the Company makes certain concessionary modifications to
      contractual terms, the loan is classified as a restructured (accruing)
      loan. Loans restructured at a rate equal to or greater than that of a new
      loan with comparable risk at the time the contract is modified may be
      excluded from the impairment assessment and may cease to be considered
      impaired loans in the calendar years subsequent to the restructuring if
      they are not impaired based on the modified terms.

      Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured remains on nonaccrual
      for a period of six months to demonstrate that the borrower can meet the
      restructured terms. However, performance prior to the restructuring, or
      significant events that coincide with the restructuring, are included in
      assessing whether the borrower can meet the new terms and may result in
      the loan being returned to accrual at the time of restructuring or after a
      shorter performance period. If the borrower's ability to meet the revised
      payment schedule is uncertain, the loan remains classified as a nonaccrual
      loan.

      ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES - In analyzing the adequacy of the allowance for
      loan and lease losses, management utilizes a comprehensive loan grading
      system to determine risk potential in the portfolio, and considers the
      results of independent internal and external credit review. To determine
      the adequacy of the allowance, the Company's loan and lease portfolio is
      broken into segments based on loan type. Historical loss experience
      factors by segment, adjusted for changes in trends and conditions, are
      used in determining the required allowance for each segment. Historical
      loss factors are evaluated and updated using migration analysis techniques
      and other considerations based on the makeup of the specific portfolio
      segment. Other considerations such as volumes and trends of delinquencies,
      nonaccruals, repossessions and bankruptcies, criticized and classified
      loan trends, current and anticipated foreclosure losses, new products and
      policies, economic conditions, concentrations of credit risk, and
      experience and abilities of lending personnel are also considered in
      establishing the loss factors.

      All loans graded substandard in the amount of $1 million or more and all
      credits graded doubtful in the amount of $100 thousand or more are
      individually evaluated based on facts and circumstances of the loan and a
      specific allowance amount designated. Specific allowances may also be
      established for loans in amounts below the specific thresholds when it is
      determined that the risk differs significantly from factor amounts
      established for the category. Although management has allocated a portion
      of the allowance to specific loan categories using the methods described,
      the adequacy of the allowance must be considered in its entirety. To
      mitigate the imprecision in most estimates of expected credit losses, the
      allocated component of the allowance is supplemented by an unallocated
      component. The unallocated portion of the allowance includes management's
      judgmental determination of the amounts necessary for subjective factors
      such as economic uncertainties and concentration risks. Accordingly, the
      relationship of the unallocated component to the total allowance for loan
      losses may fluctuate from period to period.

      PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT - Premises and equipment are stated at cost, net of
      accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation, computed on the
      straight-line method, is charged to operations over the





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      estimated useful lives of the properties. Leasehold improvements are
      amortized over the terms of respective leases or the estimated useful
      lives of the improvements, whichever is shorter.

      GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS - Goodwill, representing the
      excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired,
      results from acquisitions made by the Company. Substantially all of the
      Company's goodwill is being amortized using the straight-line method over
      25 years. Core deposit intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis
      based on an estimated useful life of 10 years.

      The Company reviews its intangible assets periodically for
      other-than-temporary impairment. If such impairment is indicated,
      recoverability of the asset is assessed based on expected undiscounted net
      cash flows.

      MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS - The Company recognizes as separate assets the
      rights to service mortgage loans for others, whether the servicing rights
      are acquired through purchases or loan originations. The fair value of
      capitalized mortgage servicing rights is based upon the present value of
      estimated future cash flows. Based upon current fair values capitalized
      mortgage servicing rights are periodically assessed for impairment, which
      is recognized in the statement of income during the period in which
      impairment occurs. For purposes of performing its impairment evaluation,
      the Company stratifies its portfolio on the basis of certain risk
      characteristics including loan type and note rate. Capitalized mortgage
      servicing rights are amortized over the period of estimated net servicing
      income and take into account appropriate prepayment assumptions.

      OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - In the ordinary course of
      business, the Company has entered into off-balance sheet financial
      instruments consisting of commitments to extend credit, commercial letters
      of credit, and standby letters of credit. Such financial instruments are
      recorded in the consolidated financial statements when they become
      payable. The credit risk associated with these commitments is considered
      in management's determination of the allowance for possible losses.

      INTEREST RATE EXCHANGE CONTRACTS AND CAP AND FLOOR AGREEMENTS - The
      Company enters into interest rate exchange contracts (swaps) and cap and
      floor agreements as part of its overall asset and liability duration and
      interest rate risk management strategy. The objective of these financial
      instruments is to match estimated repricing periods of interest-sensitive
      assets and liabilities in order to reduce interest rate exposure and or
      manage desired asset and liability duration. With the exception of
      interest rate caps and floors, these instruments are used to hedge asset
      and liability portfolios and, therefore, are not marked to market. Fees
      associated with these financial instruments are accreted into interest
      income or amortized to interest expense on a straight-line basis over the
      lives of the contracts and agreements. Gains or losses on early
      termination of a swap are amortized on the remaining term of the contract
      when the underlying assets or liabilities still exist. Otherwise, such
      gains or losses are fully recorded as income or expense at the termination
      of the contract. The net interest received or paid on these contracts is
      reflected on a current basis in the interest income or expense related to
      the hedged obligation or asset.

      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - The Company paid interest of $617.6 million,
      $459.7 million, and $378.5 million, respectively, and income taxes of
      $28.3 million, $55.4 million, and $68.7 million, respectively, for the
      years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997. Loans transferred to other
      real





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      estate owned totaled $11 million, $5 million, and $9 million,
      respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

      INCOME TAXES - Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
      future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
      statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
      respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
      Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
      expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
      differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on
      deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized
      in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

      The exercise of stock options under the Company's nonqualified stock
      option plan, resulted in tax benefits reducing the Company's current
      income tax payable and increasing common stock in the amounts of $8.6
      million, $3.4 million, and $1.2 million in 1999, 1998, and 1997,
      respectively.

      NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE - Diluted net income per common share is based
      on the weighted-average outstanding common shares during each year,
      including common stock equivalents. Basic net income per common share is
      based on the weighted-average outstanding common shares during each year.

      ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT ADOPTED - In September 1998, the FASB issued
      Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
      Activities. Statement No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting
      standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative
      instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It
      requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or
      liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those
      instruments at fair value. The accounting for gains and losses of a
      derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting
      designation.

      Under this statement, an entity that elects to apply hedge accounting is
      required to establish at the inception of the hedge the method it will use
      for assessing the effectiveness of the hedging derivative and the
      measurement approach for determining the ineffective aspect of the hedge.
      Those methods must be consistent with the entity's approach to managing
      risk. The original effective date of this statement, as amended by
      Statement No. 137, has been delayed and it is now effective for all fiscal
      quarters of fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2000, and should
      not be applied retroactively to financial statements of prior periods. The
      Company is currently studying the statement to determine its future
      effects.


(2)   MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

      On June 6, 1999, the Company announced a definitive agreement to merge
      with First Security Corporation (FSCO). Under the terms of the agreement,
      subject to approval by the shareholders of both companies and certain
      other conditions, the combined company will retain FSCO's name. If the
      merger occurs, the combined company will be the nation's 20th largest bank
      holding company with assets totaling approximately $40 billion. As part of
      the merger, each outstanding share of the Company's common stock will be
      converted into one share of common stock of the combined company and each
      share of FSCO common stock will be converted into 0.442 of a share of
      common stock of the combined company. The merger is expected to be
      accounted for as a pooling of interests.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      On October 5, 1999, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of
      Regency Bancorp ("Regency"), a bank holding company headquartered in
      Fresno, California, in exchange for 985 thousand shares of the Company's
      common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and
      accordingly, the Company's financial statements reflect its operations
      from the date of acquisition. Goodwill of approximately $33 million was
      recorded in the fourth quarter of 1999 and is being amortized over 25
      years using the straight-line method. The pro forma effect on prior period
      results of operations is not significant.

      On October 15, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Pioneer
      Bancorporation ("Pioneer"), located in Reno, Nevada, resulting in the
      issuance of approximately 5.4 million shares of the Company's common stock
      for all the outstanding shares of Pioneer common stock in a tax free
      exchange. The acquisition of Pioneer was accounted for as a pooling of
      interests and, accordingly, financial information for all periods
      presented prior to the date of acquisition has been restated to present
      the combined financial condition and results of operations as if the
      acquisition had been in effect for all such periods. At September 30,
      1999, Pioneer had assets of approximately $1 billion, net loans of $675
      million, deposits of $941 million, shareholders' equity of $73 million,
      and net income applicable to common shareholders of $10.6 million.

      On January 6, 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of Vectra
      Banking Corporation and its banking subsidiary,Vectra Bank, located in
      Denver, Colorado, in exchange for 4.0 million shares of the Company's
      common stock. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method
      of accounting, the results of the acquisition are included in the periods
      subsequent to the acquisition date. Excess cost over net assets purchased
      of $129 million was recorded in the first quarter of 1998 in connection
      with this purchase.

      On May 22, 1998, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of FP
      Bancorp, Inc. ("FP") of Escondido, California, and its banking subsidiary,
      First Pacific National Bank. The Company issued 1.9 million shares of the
      Company's common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase,
      the results of the acquisition are included in the periods subsequent to
      the acquisition date. Excess cost over net assets purchased of $57 million
      was recorded in the second quarter of 1998 in connection with this
      purchase.

      On September 8, 1998, the Company acquired The Commerce Bancorporation
      ("Commerce"), and its banking subsidiary The Commerce Bank of Washington,
      N.A. for 1.9 million shares of the Company's common stock. On the date of
      acquisition, Commerce had total assets of $318 million and total
      shareholders' equity of $24 million. The acquisition was accounted for as
      a pooling of interests and, accordingly, financial information for all
      periods presented prior to the date of acquisition has been restated to
      present the combined financial condition and results of operations as if
      the acquisition had been in effect for all such periods.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      On October 1, 1998, the Company acquired The Sumitomo Bank of California
      ("Sumitomo"), located in San Francisco, California. Cash consideration of
      approximately $546.0 million was paid for the acquisition. Sumitomo had
      total assets of $4.5 billion and total shareholders' equity of $427
      million at the date of acquisition. The acquisition was accounted for
      using the purchase method of accounting, the results of the acquisition
      are included in the periods subsequent to the acquisition date. The
      Company recorded $107 million of goodwill with this transaction. Sumitomo
      and FP were merged with Grossmont Bank and the name was changed to
      California Bank & Trust ("CB&T"). The Company sold a minority interest in
      CB&T to a limited partnership and Director of the Company for its cost
      basis of approximately $33 million.

      During 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of four additional
      banking organizations in Colorado, namely, Sky Valley Bank Corp.,
      Tri-State Finance Corporation, Routt County National Bank Corporation, and
      SBT Bankshares for an aggregate of 2.4 million shares of common stock.
      These acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the
      Company's financial statements reflect them from the date of acquisition.
      The Company recorded $69 million in goodwill in connection with these
      purchases.

      During 1998, the Company issued 1.7 million shares of the Company's common
      stock to acquire four additional banking organizations in Colorado, namely
      Kersey Bancorp., N.A., Eagle Holding Company, Citizens Banco, Inc. and
      Mountain Financial Holding Company. Each of these acquisitions was
      accounted for as a pooling of interests and was not considered material to
      the historical results of the Company, and accordingly, the Company's
      financial statements were not restated.

      On January 7, 2000, the Company announced a definitive agreement to
      acquire County Bank in Prescott, Arizona in exchange for Zions
      Bancorporation common stock. As of December 31, 1999, County Bank had
      total assets of approximately $242 million (unaudited). This transaction
      is intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests and is expected
      to close in the second quarter of 2000.

      Merger expenses for each of the years in the three-year period ended
      December 31, 1999, are presented below.







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      In connection with the Regency and Pioneer mergers, the Company recorded
      pre-tax merger expenses of $14.3 million in 1999. These costs were
      comprised of; $9.6 million in severance and other employee benefits;
      integration of information systems totaling $320 thousand; $3.5 million in
      expenses for legal and other professional fees; and other integration
      costs of $912 thousand. During 1999, the Company paid $4.5 million in
      accrued severance and other employee benefits and $3.9 million in legal
      and other professional fees and other integration costs. At December 31,
      1999, $5.1 million in severance and other employee benefits, $320 thousand
      in integration of information systems and $491 thousand of other
      integration costs remained accrued. The Company expects that substantially
      all of the unpaid merger expenses at December 31, 1999, will be paid in
      2000. During 1999, the Company paid $455 thousand of severance and other
      employee benefits, $1.1 million of legal and other professional fees, and
      $3.5 million in other integration costs associated with earlier
      acquisitions.

      The Company recorded pre-tax merger expenses of $38.1 million in 1998 in
      connection with the Sumitomo and eleven other mergers. The Sumitomo merger
      expenses included; $5.3 million in severance and other employee benefits;
      $7.8 million in real property lease terminations; $5.8 million in
      integration of business systems and $1.7 million in integration of
      information systems. In connection with the other eleven mergers, the
      Company incurred $6.3 million in severance and other employee benefits,
      $6.0 million in legal and other professional fees, and $5.2 million in
      other integration costs. As a result of these twelve mergers, merger costs
      of $38.1 million, and a liability of $22.1 million was recorded in 1998
      and was paid in total during 1999.

      As a result of the consolidation effort associated with Sumitomo, the
      Company recorded additional pre-tax merger expenses of $8.4 million during
      1999 which amount remained accrued at December 31, 1999. Those costs are
      comprised of $2.3 million for severance and other employee benefits; $1.7
      million in equipment and occupancy costs; $451 thousand in integration of
      business operations; $3.1 million in integration of information systems;
      $295 thousand in legal and other professional fees; and $546 thousand in
      other integration costs. The Company expects that substantially all of the
      unpaid merger expenses at December 31, 1999, will be paid in 2000.


(3)   INVESTMENT SECURITIES

      Investment securities as of December 31, 1999, are summarized as follows
      (in thousands):







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998





      Investment securities as of December 31, 1998, are summarized as follows
(in thousands):







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998





      The amortized cost and estimated market value of investment securities as
      of December 31, 1999, by contractual maturity, excluding equity
      securities, are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from
      contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or
      prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties (in
      thousands):







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Gross gains of $2.4 million, $9.4 million, and $9.1 million and gross
      losses of $5.4 million, $5.3 million, and $8.2 million were recognized on
      sales and write downs of investment securities for the years ended
      December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

      Included in other noninterest income for 1999 is $42.6 million of net
      gains from securities held by the Company's venture capital subsidiary,
      Wasatch Venture Corporation. Consolidated net income for 1999 includes
      approximately $22.9 from Wasatch Venture Corporation's operations for the
      year.

      As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, securities with an amortized cost of
      $1,730 million and $1,233 million, respectively, were pledged to secure
      public and trust deposits, advances, and for other purposes as required by
      law.


(4)   LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

      Loans are summarized as follows (in thousands):



      As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, loans with a carrying value of $1,140
      million and $63 million, respectively, were pledged as security for
      Federal Home Loan Bank advances.

      During 1999, 1998, and 1997, sales of loans held for sale totaled $879
      million, $1,238 million, and $733 million, respectively. Consumer and
      other loan securitizations totaled $982 million in 1999, $884 million in
      1998, and $951 million in 1997, and relate primarily to loans sold under
      revolving securitization structures. Gain on the sales, excluding
      servicing, of both loans held for sale and loan securitizations amounted
      to $24.2 million in 1999, $36.2 million in 1998, and $28.3 million in
      1997.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The allowance for loan losses is summarized as follows (in thousands):



      At December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, the allowance for loan losses
      includes an allocation of $23 million, $20 million, and $9 million,
      respectively, related to commitments to extend credit and standby letters
      of credit.

      The Company's total recorded investment in impaired loans amounted to $57
      million and $41 million as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
      Included in the allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 1999 and
      1998, is a required allowance of $16 million and $5 million, respectively,
      on $22 million and $11 million, respectively, of the recorded investment
      in impaired loans. Contractual interest due and interest foregone on
      impaired loans totaled $5.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively, for
      1999, $3.8 million and $2.1 million, respectively, for 1998, and $554
      thousand and $244 thousand, respectively, for 1997. The average recorded
      investment in impaired loans amounted to $27 million in 1999, $18 million
      in 1998, and $7 million in 1997.


(5)   CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

      Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognized subsequent to the
      reporting date if counterparties failed to perform as contracted.
      Concentrations of credit risk (whether on- or off-balance sheet) that
      arise from financial instruments exist for groups of customers or
      counterparties when they have similar economic characteristics that would
      cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly
      affected by changes in economic or other conditions. The Company does not
      have significant exposure to any individual customer or counterparty.

      Most of the Company's business activity is with customers located within
      the states of Utah, Idaho, California, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, and
      Washington. The commercial loan portfolio is well diversified, consisting
      of 11 major industry classification groupings. As of December 31, 1999,
      the larger concentrations of risk in the commercial loan and leasing
      portfolio are represented by the real estate, construction, business
      services and transportation industry groupings. The Company has minimal
      credit exposure from lending transactions with highly leveraged entities.
      The majority of foreign loans are supported by domestic real estate or
      letters of credit.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(6)   PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

      The following table presents comparative data for premises and equipment
(in thousands):




(7)   MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS

      Mortgage servicing rights, included in other assets in the accompanying
      balance sheets, are summarized as follows (in thousands):



      At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the aggregate fair value of mortgage
      servicing rights was $2.5 million and $20.4 million, respectively. Fair
      values are determined by discounted anticipated future net cash flows from
      mortgage servicing activities considering market consensus loan prepayment
      predictions, interest rates, servicing costs, and other economic factors.


(8)   DEPOSITS

      At December 31, 1999, the scheduled maturities of all time deposits are as
      follows (in thousands):







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The aggregate amount of time deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or
      more was $1,079 million and $1,637 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
      respectively. At December 31, 1999, the contractual maturities of these
      deposits were as follows: $447 million in 3 months or less, $229 million
      over 3 months through 6 months, $334 million over 6 months through 12
      months and $69 million over 12 months.

      Deposit overdrafts that have been reclassified as loan balances were $21
      million and $23 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.


(9)   SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

      Short-term borrowings generally mature in less than 30 days. The following
      table shows selected information for these borrowings (in thousands):



      The Company participates in overnight and term security repurchase
      agreements. Most of the overnight agreements are performed with sweep
      accounts in conjunction with a master repurchase agreement. In this case,
      securities under the Company's control are pledged for and interest is
      paid on the collected balance of the customers' accounts. For term
      repurchase agreements, securities are transferred to the applicable
      counterparty.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(10)  FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES AND OTHER BORROWINGS

      The following table presents comparative data for FHLB advances and other
      borrowings over one year (in thousands):



      Federal Home Loan Bank advances as of December 31, 1999 are borrowed by
      Zions First National Bank (ZFNB) and Vectra Bank Colorado, N.A. (Vectra),
      wholly-owned subsidiaries, under their lines of credit with the Federal
      Home Loan Bank of Seattle and Topeka, respectively. The lines of credit
      are secured under a blanket pledge whereby ZFNB and Vectra maintain
      unencumbered collateral with carrying amount, which has been adjusted
      using a pledge requirement percentage based upon the types of collateral
      pledged, equal to at least 100 percent of outstanding advances.

      Interest expense on FHLB advances and other borrowings over one year was
      $4.8 million, $6.6 million, and $8.2 million for the years ended December
      31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

      Maturities of Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings over
      one year are as follows (in thousands):






                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(11)  LONG-TERM DEBT

      Long-term debt is summarized as follows (in thousands):



      The guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in junior subordinated
      deferrable interest debentures include $200 million of 8.536 percent
      debentures issued by Zions Institutional Capital Trust A (ZICTA), $5.5
      million of 10.25 percent debentures issued by GB Capital Trust (GBCT), and
      $17.5 million of 9.50 percent debentures issued by VBC Capital I Trust
      (VBCCIT).

      The ZICTA debentures are direct and unsecured obligations of ZFNB and are
      subordinate to the claims of depositors and general creditors. The Company
      has irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed all of ZFNB's obligations
      under the debentures. The GBCT and VBCCIT debentures are direct and
      unsecured obligations of the Company through the acquisition of GB
      Bancorporation and Vectra Banking Corporation, and are subordinate to
      other indebtedness and general creditors of the Company. ZICTA, GBCT, and
      VBCCIT debentures have the right, with the approval of banking regulators,
      to early redemption in 2006, 2007, and 2002, respectively. ZICTA and GBCT
      debentures require semiannual interest payments and mature on December 15,
      2026 and January 15, 2027, respectively. VBCCIT debentures require
      quarterly interest payments and mature on April 30, 2027.

      Floating-rate subordinated notes consist of $67 million callable in 2000
      and $110 million callable in 2003. These notes require quarterly interest
      payments. Subordinated notes also include $50.1 million of 8.625 percent
      notes which are not redeemable prior to maturity and require semiannual
      interest payments. All subordinated notes are unsecured.




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Interest expense on long-term debt was $35.1 million, $29.1 million, and
      $22.4 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997,
      respectively.

      Maturities and sinking fund requirements on long-term debt at December 31,
      1999 for each of the succeeding five years are as follows (in thousands):



(12)  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

      The Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet
      risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its
      customers, to reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,
      and to make a market in U.S. government, agency, and municipal securities.
      These financial instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of
      credit, liquidity, and interest rate risk in excess of the amount
      recognized in the balance sheets.

      Contractual amounts of the off-balance sheet financial instruments used to
      meet the financing needs of the Company's customers are as follows (in
      thousands):



      Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long
      as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract.
      Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination
      clauses and may require the payment of a fee. The amount of collateral
      obtained, if deemed necessary by the Company upon extension of credit, is
      based on management's credit evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral
      varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and
      equipment, and income-producing properties.




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Establishing commitments to extend credit gives rise to credit risk. As of
      December 31, 1999, a significant portion of the Company's commitments is
      expected to expire without being drawn upon; commitments totaling $3.5
      million expire in 2000. As a result, the Company's actual future credit
      exposure or liquidity requirements will be lower than the contractual
      amounts of the commitments. The Company uses the same credit policies and
      procedures in making commitments to extend credit and conditional
      obligations as it does for on-balance sheet instruments. These policies
      and procedures include credit approvals, limits, and monitoring.

      Standby and commercial letters of credit are conditional commitments
      issued by the Company generally to guarantee the performance of a customer
      to a third party. The guarantees are primarily issued to support public
      and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond
      financing, and similar transactions. Standby letters of credit include
      commitments in the amount of $183.3 million expiring in 2000 and $6.6
      million expiring thereafter through 2007. The credit risk involved in
      issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in
      extending loan facilities to customers. The Company generally holds
      marketable securities and cash equivalents as collateral supporting those
      commitments for which collateral is deemed necessary.

      Notional values of interest rate contracts are summarized as follows (in
      thousands):



      The Company enters into interest rate caps and floors, exchange contracts
      (swaps), and forward agreements as part of its overall asset and liability
      duration and interest rate risk management strategy. These transactions
      enable the Company to manage asset and liability durations, and transfer,
      modify, or reduce its interest rate risk. With the exception of interest
      rate caps and floors, these instruments are used to hedge asset and
      liability portfolios and, therefore, are not marked to market. The
      notional amounts of the contracts are used to express volume, but the
      amounts potentially subject to credit risk are much smaller. Exposure to
      credit risk arises from the possibility of nonperformance by
      counterparties to the interest rate contracts. The Company controls this
      credit risk (except futures contracts and interest rate cap and floor
      contracts written, for which credit risk is de minimus) through credit
      approvals, limits, and monitoring procedures. As the Company generally
      enters into transactions only with high-quality counterparties, no losses
      associated with counterparty nonperformance on interest rate contracts
      have occurred. Nevertheless, the related credit risk is considered and
      provided for in the allowance for loan losses.

      Interest rate caps and floors obligate one of the parties to the contract
      to make payments to the other if an interest rate index exceeds a
      specified upper "capped" level or if the index falls below a specified
      "floor" level. The interest rate caps and floors to which the Company is a
      party at December 31, 1999, have remaining terms of three to twenty-three
      years.




                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Interest rate swaps generally involve the exchange of fixed and variable
      rate interest payment obligations based on an underlying notional value,
      without the exchange of the notional value. Entering into interest rate
      swap agreements involves not only the risk of dealing with counterparties
      and their ability to meet the terms of the contract but also the interest
      rate risk associated with unmatched positions. Swaps to which the Company
      is a party at December 31, 1999, have remaining terms ranging from one to
      six years.

      Forwards are contracts for the delayed delivery of financial instruments
      in which the seller agrees to deliver on a specified future date, a
      specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. As of December 31,
      1999, the Company's forward contracts have remaining terms ranging from
      one to four months.

      As a market maker in U.S. government, agency, and municipal securities,
      the Company enters into agreements to purchase and sell such securities.
      As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had outstanding commitments
      to purchase securities of $240 million and $533 million, respectively, and
      outstanding commitments to sell securities of $243 million and $529
      million, respectively. These agreements at December 31, 1999, have
      remaining terms of one month or less.

      The contract or notional amount of financial instruments indicates a level
      of activity associated with a particular class of financial instrument and
      is not a reflection of the actual level of risk. As of December 31, 1999
      and 1998, the regulatory risk-weighted values assigned to all off-balance
      sheet financial instruments described herein totaled $1,389 million and
      $876 million, respectively.

      The Company has a total of $50 million available in lines of credit from
      two separate institutions. At December 31, 1999, the Company had drawn $25
      million on these lines, with interest rates ranging from 5.17 percent to
      6.64 percent. There were no compensating balance arrangements on either of
      these lines of credit.

      At December 31, 1999, the Company was required to maintain a cash balance
      of $38 million with the Federal Reserve Banks to meet minimum balance
      requirements in accordance with Federal Reserve Board regulations.

      The Company is a defendant in various legal proceedings arising in the
      normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the outcome
      of any such proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its
      consolidated financial position, operations, or liquidity.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The Company has commitments for leasing premises and equipment under the
      terms of noncancelable capital and operating leases expiring from 2000 to
      2067. Premises leases under capital leases were recorded at $15 million,
      net of $13 million accumulated amortization at December 31, 1999.
      Amortization charge applicable to premises leased under capital leases is
      included in depreciation expense. Future aggregate minimum rental payments
      under existing noncancelable leases at December 31, 1999 are as follows
      (in thousands):



      Future aggregate minimum rental payments have been reduced by
      noncancelable subleases as follows: 2000, $1.0 million; 2001, $739
      thousand; 2002, $481 thousand; 2003, $307 thousand; 2004, $269 thousand;
      and thereafter $5.8 million. Aggregate rental expense on operating leases
      amounted to $40.3 million, $33.3 million, and $18.3 million for the years
      ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.


(13)  STOCK OPTIONS

      The Company adopted a qualified stock option plan in 1981, under which
      stock options may be granted to key employees; and a nonqualified plan
      under which options may be granted to nonemployee directors. Under the
      qualified plan and nonqualified plan, respectively, 3,244,000 and 400,000
      shares of common stock were reserved.

      No compensation expense was recorded for the qualified and nonqualified
      option plans, as the exercise price was equal to the quoted market price
      of the stock at the time of grant. Options granted are generally
      exercisable in increments from one to four years after the date of grant
      and expire six years after the date of grant. Under the nonqualified plan,
      options expire five to ten years from the date of grant. At December 31,
      1999, there were 86,573 and 259,000 additional shares available for grant
      under the qualified and nonqualified plan, respectively.






                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      During 1998, the Company adopted a broad-based employee stock option plan
      in substitution of an employee profit-sharing plan, which assets were
      comprised of Company common stock. Substantially all participants of the
      employee profit-sharing plan are eligible to participate in the employee
      stock option plan. The Company bases participation in the employee stock
      option plan upon employment for a full year prior to the option grant date
      with service of 20 hours a week or more. Stock options will be granted to
      eligible employees based on an internal job grade structure. All options
      vest at a rate of one third each year with expiration at four years after
      grant date. At December 31, 1999, there were 1,500,000 options authorized
      with 399,763 options outstanding. The plan is noncompensatory and results
      in no expense to the Company, as the exercise price of the options is
      equal to the quoted market price of the stock at the option grant date.

      The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted during
      1999, 1998, and 1997 was $28.01, $17.82, and $10.56, respectively, on the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following
      weighted-average assumptions were used in 1999, 1998, and 1997: expected
      dividend yield ranging from 1.4% to 1.8%; expected volatility ranging from
      22.2% to 39.3%; risk-free interest rates ranging from 5.2% to 6.5% and
      expected life ranging from 1 to 5.5 years.

      Had the Company determined compensation cost based on the fair value at
      the grant date for its stock options under Statement No. 123, the
      Company's net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the
      pro forma amounts indicated below:



      Pro forma amounts reflect only stock-based compensation grants made after
      1994. The full impact of calculating compensation cost for stock options
      under Statement No. 123 is not reflected in the pro forma amounts
      presented above because compensation cost is reflected over the options'
      vesting period and compensation cost of options granted prior to January
      1, 1995 is not considered.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The following table is a summary of the Company's stock option activity
      and related information for the three years ended December 31, 1999:








                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Selected information on stock options as of December 31, 1999 follows:



(14)  NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

      Basic and diluted net income per common share, based on the
      weighted-average outstanding shares, are summarized as follows (in
      thousands, except per share amounts):








                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(15)  SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PROTECTION PLAN

      The Company has in place a Shareholder Rights Protection Plan. The
      Shareholder Rights Protection Plan contains provisions intended to protect
      shareholders in the event of unsolicited offers or attempts to acquire the
      Company, including offers that do not treat all shareholders equally,
      acquisitions in the open market of shares constituting control without
      offering fair value to all shareholders, and other coercive or unfair
      takeover tactics that could impair the Board of Directors' ability to
      represent shareholders' interests fully. The Shareholder Rights Protection
      Plan provides that attached to each share of common stock is one right (a
      "Right") to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of participating
      preferred stock for an exercise price of $90, subject to adjustment.

      The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights may cause
      substantial dilution to a person that attempts to acquire the Company
      without the approval of the Board of Directors. The Rights, however,
      should not affect offers for all outstanding shares of common stock at a
      fair price and, otherwise, in the best interests of the Company and its
      shareholders as determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of
      Directors may, at its option, redeem all, but not fewer than all, of the
      then outstanding Rights at any time until the 10th business day following
      a public announcement that a person or a group had acquired beneficial
      ownership of 10 percent or more of the Company's outstanding common stock
      or total voting power.

(16)  INCOME TAXES
      Income taxes are summarized as follows (in thousands):



      A reconciliation between income tax expense computed using the statutory
      federal income tax rate of 35 percent and actual income tax expense is as
      follows (in thousands):








                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
      portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of
      December 31, 1999 and 1998, are presented below (in thousands):



      The Company has determined that it is not required to establish a
      valuation reserve for the net deferred tax assets since it is "more likely
      than not" that such net assets will be principally realized through future
      taxable income and tax planning strategies. The Company's conclusion that
      it is "more likely than not" that the net deferred tax assets will be
      realized is based on history of growth in earnings and the prospects for
      continued growth and profitability.






                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(17)  REGULATORY MATTERS

      The Company is subject to various regulatory capital requirements
      administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum
      capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory--and possibly
      additional discretionary--actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could
      have a direct material effect on the Company's consolidated financial
      statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework
      for prompt corrective action, the Company must meet specific capital
      guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company's assets,
      liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under
      regulatory accounting practices. The Company's capital amounts and
      classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators
      about components, risk weightings, and other factors.

      Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy
      require the Company to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in
      the table below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined in the
      regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier I capital
      (as defined) to average assets (as defined). Management believes, as of
      December 31, 1999, that the Company meets all capital adequacy
      requirements to which it is subject.

      As of December 31, 1999, the Company's capital ratios significantly
      exceeded the minimum capital levels and is considered well capitalized
      under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be
      categorized as well capitalized, the Company must maintain minimum total
      risk-based, Tier I risk-based, and Tier I leverage ratios as set forth in
      the table. There are no conditions or events that management believes have
      changed the Company's category.

      The actual capital amounts and ratios of the Company and significant
      banking subsidiaries are as follows (in thousands):







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998





      Dividends declared by the Company's national banking subsidiaries in any
      calendar year may not, without the approval of the appropriate federal
      regulator, exceed their net earnings for that year combined with their net
      earnings less dividends paid for the preceding two years. At December 31,
      1999, the Company's subsidiaries had approximately $55.5 million available
      for the payment of dividends under the foregoing restrictions.


(18)  RETIREMENT PLANS

      The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for
      eligible employees. Plan benefits are based on years of service and
      employees' compensation levels. Benefits vest under the plan upon
      completion of five years of service. Plan assets consist principally of
      corporate equity and debt securities and cash investments.

      Effective January 1, 1997, the plan was amended such that plan benefits
      are now defined as a lump-sum cash value or an annuity at age 65. The 1997
      income from curtailment resulted from the merger of Grossmont Bank plan
      participants into the Company's plan at December 31, 1997.

      On January 1, 1998, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 132. Statement No. 132
      revises employer's disclosures about pension and other postretirement
      benefit plans. Statement No. 132 does not change the method of accounting
      for such plans.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The following table presents the change in the plan's benefit obligation
      for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, as follows (in thousands):



      Plan assets included 88,558 shares of Company common stock as of December
      31, 1999 and 86,760 shares as of December 31, 1998. The following table
      presents the change in plan assets for the years ended December 31, 1999
      and 1998, as follows (in thousands):



      The following table presents the plan's funded status reconciled with
      amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at
      December 31, 1999 and 1998, as follows (in thousands):



      The ending net accrued liability and net prepaid benefit cost at December
      31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, is fully recognized in the Company's
      respective consolidated balance sheets.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Net periodic benefit cost recognized for the years ended December 31,
      1999, 1998, and 1997, includes the following components (in thousands):



      The weighted average discount rate used in determining the pension benefit
      obligation was 8.00 percent and 6.75 percent in 1999 and 1998,
      respectively. The rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term
      rate of return were 5.00 percent and 9.00 percent, respectively, for both
      1999 and 1998. Any net transition asset or obligation and any unrecognized
      prior service cost are being amortized on a straight-line basis.
      Unrecognized gains and losses are amortized using the minimum recognition
      method described in paragraph 32 of Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards No. 87.

      The Company also sponsors three unfunded, nonqualified supplemental
      executive retirement plans, which restore pension benefits limited by
      federal tax law. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company's liability
      included in accrued expenses totaled $5.7 million and $5.4 million,
      respectively.

      In addition to the Company's defined benefit pension plan, the Company
      sponsors a defined benefit health care plan that provides postretirement
      medical benefits to full-time employees hired before January 1, 1993, who
      meet minimum age and service requirements. The plan is contributory, with
      retiree contributions adjusted annually, and contains other cost-sharing
      features such as deductibles and coinsurance. Plan coverage is provided by
      self-funding or health maintenance organizations (HMOs) options.
      Reductions in the Company's obligations to provide benefits resulting from
      cost sharing changes have been applied to reduce the plan's unrecognized
      transition obligation. During 1999, the Company adopted several plan
      changes that reduced the liability for retiree medical coverage. The
      Company's retiree premium contribution rate is frozen at 50 percent of
      1996 dollar amounts until 2003, when all retiree medical coverage will be
      fully paid by retirees.






                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      The following table presents the change in the plan's benefit obligation
      for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, as follows (in thousands):



      The following table presents the plan's funded status reconciled with
      amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at
      December 31, 1999 and 1998, as follows (in thousands):



      Net periodic benefit cost recognized for the years ended December 31,
      1999, 1998, and 1997, includes the following components (in thousands):



      The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
      postretirement benefit obligation was 8.0 percent at December 31, 1999 and
      7.0 percent at December 31, 1998.

      The actuarial assumed health care cost trend rate is 6.5 percent for 2000,
      decreasing to an ultimate level of 5 percent for the years 2003 and
      thereafter. The effect of a one-percentage point increase and decrease in
      the assumed health care cost trend rate at December 31, 1999 would be a
      $2,000 increase and a $2,000 decrease, respectively, to the aggregate
      service and interest cost components of the net periodic





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      postretirement health care benefit cost and a $25,000 increase and a
      $25,000 decrease, respectively, to the accumulated postretirement benefit
      obligation for health care benefits.

      The Company has an Employee Stock Savings Plan and an Employee Investment
      Savings Plan (PAYSHELTER). Under PAYSHELTER, employees select from a
      nontax-deferred or tax-deferred plan and several investment alternatives.
      Employees can contribute from 1 to 15 percent of compensation, which is
      matched up to 50 percent by the Company for contributions up to 5 percent
      and 25 percent for contributions greater than 5 percent up to 10 percent.
      The Company's contributions to the plans amounted to $5.3 million, $3.7
      million, and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and
      1997, respectively.


(19)  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

      Carrying value and estimated fair value of principal financial instruments
      are summarized as follows (in thousands):







                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



      Financial Assets - The estimated fair value approximates the carrying
      value of cash and due from banks and money market investments. For
      securities, the fair value is based on quoted market prices where
      available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are
      based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments or a discounted
      cash flow model based on established market rates. The fair value of
      fixed-rate loans is estimated by discounting future cash flows using the
      London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) yield curve adjusted by a factor
      which reflects the credit and interest rate risk inherent in the loan.
      Variable-rate loans reprice with changes in market rates. As such their
      carrying amounts are deemed to approximate fair value. The fair value of
      the allowance for loan losses of $204 million and $213 million at December
      31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, is the present value of estimated net
      charge-offs.

      Financial Liabilities - The estimated fair value of demand and savings
      deposits, securities sold not yet purchased, and federal funds purchased
      and security repurchase agreements approximates the carrying value. The
      fair value of time and foreign deposits is estimated by discounting future
      cash flows using generally the LIBOR yield curve. Substantially all FHLB
      advances reprice with changes in market interest rates or have short terms
      to maturity. The carrying value of such indebtedness is deemed to
      approximate market value. Other borrowings are not significant. The
      estimated fair value of the subordinated notes is based on a quoted market
      price. The remaining long-term debt is not significant.

      Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments - The fair value of the caps,
      floors, and swaps reflects the estimated amounts that the Company would
      receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date based upon
      pricing or valuation models applied to current market information, thereby
      taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses of open
      contracts. The carrying amounts include unamortized fees paid or received
      and deferred gains or losses.

      The fair value of commitments to extend credit and letters of credit,
      based on fees currently charged for similar commitments, is not
      significant.

      Limitations - These fair value disclosures represent management's best
      estimates, based on relevant market information and information about the
      financial instruments. However, because no markets exist for the Company's
      financial instruments, fair value estimates are based on judgements
      regarding future expected loss experience, current economic conditions,
      risk characteristics of the various instruments, and other factors. These
      estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters
      of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision.
      Changes in the above methodologies and assumptions could significantly
      affect the estimates.

      Further, the calculations do not represent the underlying value of the
      Company. Other significant assets and liabilities, which are not
      considered financial assets or liabilities and for which no fair values
      have been estimated, include premises and equipment, goodwill and other
      intangibles, deferred taxes, and other liabilities.





                     ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998



(20)  OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION

      As of December 31, 1998, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 131,
      Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise. This statement
      requires that a public business enterprise report financial and
      descriptive information about its reportable operating segments. According
      to the statement, operating segments are defined as components of an
      enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is
      evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how
      to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

      The Company evaluates segment performance internally based on geography,
      and thus the operating segments are so defined. All segments, except for
      the segment defined as "other," are based on commercial banking
      operations. The operating segment defined as "other" includes the Parent
      company, smaller nonbank operating units, and eliminations of transactions
      between segments.

      The accounting policies of the individual operating segments are the same
      as those of the Company described in note 1. Transactions between
      operating segments are primarily conducted at fair value, resulting in
      profits that are eliminated for reporting consolidated results of
      operations. Expenses for centrally provided services are allocated based
      on the estimated usage of those services.





                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998


The following is a summary of selected operating segment information for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997 (in thousands):














                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998


(21)     QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

         Financial information by quarter for the three years ended December 31,
1999, is as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):











(22) Parent Company Financial Information
     Condensed financial information of Zions Bancorporation
     (parent only) follows:

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                            Condensed Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998

                                 (In thousands)




                         Condensed Statements of Income

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                                 (In thousands)








                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997

                                 (In thousands)




The parent company paid interest of $30.7 million, $16.4 million, and $8.3
million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.




ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ACCOUNTING AND DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

See Item 13. below.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See Item 13. below.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

See Item 13. below.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information related to the Company's Executive Officers is included on page 7.
Pursuant to Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the remainder of the information to
be provided in Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Form 10-K (other than information
pursuant to Rule 402 (j), (k), and (l) of Regulation S-K) are incorporated by
reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of
stockholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days of the close of
the Company's 1999 fiscal year.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   The following documents are part of this report and appear on the pages
      indicated:

      (1)  Financial Statements:






(2)   The Financial Statement Schedules are omitted because conditions requiring
      their filing do not exist.

(3)   Exhibits Index:




















*Incorporated by reference

(b)   Zions Bancorporation filed the following reports on Form 8-K during the
      quarter ended December 31, 1999;

     (1) Filed December 27, 1999 (Item 7), announcing the postponement of Zions
     shareholders' meeting due to a change in accounting treatment for certain
     prior mergers.

Zions Bancorporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 1999, at the time of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
shall modify and supersede all documents filed prior to January 1, 2000 pursuant
to Sections 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for purposes
of offers or sales of any securities after the date of such filing pursuant to
any Registration Statement or Prospectus filed pursuant to the Securities Act of
1933 which incorporates by reference such Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of
1933 may be permitted to directors, officers, and controlling persons of the
Registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the Registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
Registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer, or controlling
person of the Registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit, or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer, or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the Registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
governed by the final adjudication of such issue.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



March 29, 2000                       ZIONS BANCORPORATION



                                     By     /s/ Harris H. Simmons
                                        ----------------------------------------

                                        HARRIS H. SIMMONS, President and
                                             Chief Executive Officer








Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.

                                               March 29, 2000








