
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR ZIONS BANCORPORATION



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20459

                                    FORM 10-K

 X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
- ---   ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                       OR

      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
- ---   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ___________ to ___________

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-2610

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                     UTAH                                  87-0227400
        (State of other jurisdiction of      (Internal Revenue Service Employer
      incorporation or organization)               Identification Number)
         1380 Kennecott Building

           Salt Lake City, Utah                            84133
 (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (801) 524-4787 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the act: None 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the act:

                        Common Stock - without par value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No 
                                      ---   ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ____




Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Definitive Proxy Statement (See Part III, Item 10, Item 11, Item 12, and Item
13).



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                       ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1995 ON FORM 10-K

                                








PART I

ITEM 1.           BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation (the Parent) is a multibank holding company organized under
the laws of Utah in 1955, registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956,
as amended. Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries (the Company), is the
second largest bank holding company headquartered in Utah and provides a full
range of banking and related services primarily in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona.
Its principal subsidiaries are banking subsidiaries which include Zions First
National Bank, the second largest commercial banking organization in the state
of Utah; Nevada State Bank, the fifth largest commercial bank in Nevada; and
National Bank of Arizona, the fifth largest commercial bank in Arizona.

The Company's business and the businesses of many of its larger borrowers are
primarily concentrated in the state of Utah. Consequently, the Company's results
of operations and financial condition are dependent upon general trends in the
Utah economy and real estate markets.

The Company has focused in recent years on maintaining strong liquidity,
risk-based capital and cash flow positions and on developing strong internal
controls. An increasing focus is currently being placed on strengthening the
Company's core businesses of retail banking, small- and medium-sized business
lending, residential mortgage and investment activities by maintaining a
competitive cost structure. In addition to these core businesses, the Company
has built specialized lines of business in institutional investments, public
finance, and provides financing to small businesses to improve revenue growth
and profitability while attempting to minimize risk. The Company's general
operating objectives include enhancing the Company's market position in Utah,
Nevada, and Arizona through in-market acquisitions of smaller depository
institutions, and through the continued development of the Company's present
lines of business by use of new technology to reduce cost and provide new and
innovative ways to reach and serve customers.

The Company is committed to improving the communities it serves now and in the
years to come. The Company engages in a variety of loan programs which benefit
low to moderate income individuals; ranging from housing and business loans to
automobile loans and credit card programs.

At December 31, 1995, the Company had assets of $5.6 billion, loans of $2.8
billion, deposits of $4.1 billion, and shareholders' equity of more than $.4
billion. A more detailed discussion concerning the Company's financial condition
is contained in Part II of this report.

THE BANKING SUBSIDIARIES

The banks provide a wide variety of commercial and retail banking and
mortgage-lending financial services. Commercial loans, lease financing, cash
management, lockbox, customized draft processing, and other special financial
services are provided for business and other commercial banking customers. A
wide range of personal banking services are provided to individuals, including
bankcard, student and other installment loans and home equity lines of credit,
checking accounts, savings accounts, time certificates of various types and
maturities, trust services and safe deposit facilities. In addition, direct
deposit of payroll, social security and various other government checks are
offered. Automated teller machines provide 24-hour access and availability to
customers' accounts and to many consumer banking services through statewide,
regional, and nationwide ATM networks. Customer transactions are processed
through the Company's ATMs, point-of-sale terminals, and ATMs operated by other
financial institutions.

Zions First National Bank in Utah has developed special packages of financial
services designed to meet the financial needs of particular market niches,
including the Premier Account for those 50 years and older and the Student
Account. The Bank has also established a Private Banking group to service the
financial needs of wealthy individuals; an Executive Banking program to service
the needs of corporate executives of commercial clients, and an Affinity program
which offers discounted financial services to employees of commercial accounts
on a group basis. Zions Bank has also developed a series of products geared to
the lower-income customer, including the Flex Loan (a low-income personal loan),
and several low-income housing programs.

Zions First National Bank offers "Electronic Bill Pay Service," an electronic
bill paying service activated through a touch tone telephone, and a home banking
product, under the name "PC Banker" which allows a retail customer to use a home
computer to access and transfer account balances, pay bills, and maintain and
reconcile accounts. Zions Bank also delivers electronically, as the contractor
for the State of Utah, a variety of state benefit payments to the state's
clients.





Zions First National Bank is a primary dealer in obligations of the United
States government and several federal agencies, and is a major underwriter and
distributor of municipal securities, and specialized securities such as the
government-guaranteed portions of U. S. Small Business Administration (SBA)
loans. Through its new Zions Small Business Finance division, Zions Bank
provides SBA 7(a) loans to small businesses throughout the United States. And
Zions Bank's SBA 504 department works with Certified Development Companies and
correspondent banks throughout the country, providing the nation's largest
source of secondary market financing for this loan program. Zions First National
Bank's Small Business Investment Corporation provides early-stage capital,
primarily for technology companies located in the Intermountain West.

Zions First National Bank provides correspondent banking services such as cash
letter processing, wire services, federal funds facilities, and loan
participations. Zions Bank's International Banking Department issues letters of
credit and handles foreign exchange transactions for customers, but it does not
take a trading position in foreign exchange. Zions Bank's Grand Cayman branch
accepts Euordollar deposits from qualified customers, and places deposits with
foreign banks and foreign branches of other U.S. banks. Zions' banking
subsidiaries, however, do not engage in any foreign lending.

Both Zions First National Bank and Nevada State Bank have established trust
divisions which offer clients a variety of fiduciary services ranging from the
administration of estates and trusts to the management of funds held under
pension and profit sharing plans. They also offer custodian, portfolio, and
management services. The Trust Division of Zions First National Bank also acts
as fiscal and payment agent, transfer agent, registrar, and trustee under
corporate and trust indentures for corporations, governmental bodies, and public
authorities.

The Company's commercial banking operations generated net income of $83.6
million in 1995, a 27.4% increase from the net income of $65.7 million in 1994.
Income from commercial banking operations was favorably affected in 1995 by
increased net interest income resulting from higher average earning assets and a
larger spread between the prime lending rate and U.S. Treasury rates. The prime
lending rate is the primary basis used for pricing the Company's loans whereas
U.S. Treasury rates are the primary index used for pricing many of the Company's
interest-bearing deposit obligations. Operations were also favorably affected
through increased income resulting from loan sales and servicing in 1995, as
first mortgage loan originations and securitized loan servicing fees increased
by $9.7 million. Income was adversely affected in the first quarter of 1995
through a trading loss of approximately $3.1 million occurring in Discount
Corporation of New York division of Zions Bank. Operations of the division's New
York City office were terminated and selected operations were transferred to
Salt lake City under the name Zions Bank Capital Markets which resulted in a
restructuring charge of $1.3 million. Zions First National Bank remains a
primary reporting dealer in U.S. Treasury securities and a member of the
underwriting groups of selected U.S. agencies.

The Company has continued its efforts to reduce its cost structure and improve
efficiency in 1995 through the implementation of various programs and systems
and the establishment of benchmarks throughout its various departments to assist
in monitoring its progress. New technologies were employed during the year to
deliver banking services to our customers and to facilitate improved employee
productivity. The Company's efficiency ratio, influenced primarily by its
commercial banking subsidiaries, improved to 59.1% in 1995 as compared to 63.3%
in 1994. The Company also continued to expand its ATM network, as total ATMs in
service at year end reached 255, a 18.6% increase from the 215 in operation at
the end of 1994. With the growth in its branch system through acquisitions and
the expansion of its grocery store locations, the Company has achieved
significant geographical coverage in each of the three states in which it
conducts its commercial banking operations.

Average interest bearing deposits, federal funds sold and securities purchased
under agreements to resell increased 6.6% or $59.5 million. Average securities
held to maturity, available for sale and in the trading account increased 5.6%
or $85.9 million. Total average loans and lease receivables, net of unearned
discount, increased 1.0% or $25.0 million. Total average securitized loans
increased 65.9% or $312.8 million.

Average core deposits continued to experience growth of 6.4% or $216.4 million
in 1995. The components of this growth included an increase of $120.5 million or
5.9% in average savings and money market deposits and an increase of $98.0
million or 19.0% in average time deposits under $100,000. Average demand
deposits were essentially level in 1995 as compared to 1994. Total average
deposits increased $278.3 million or 7.7% to $3,873.7 million in 1995 as
compared to $3,595.4 million in 1994.

Average federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to
repurchase decreased $28.4 million or 2.6% to $1,056.8 million in 1995 while
average securities sold short declined $94.2 million or 51.1% to $90.2 million
in 1995. Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings declined $33.4
million or 23.2% to $110.7 million in 1995. Total average shareholder's equity
allocated to commercial banking operations increased $63.0 million or 18.1% to
$411.3 million in 1995.




Utah

Zions First National Bank, founded in 1873, has 94 offices located throughout
the state of Utah, plus one foreign office, for a total of 95 banking offices.
Zions First National bank experienced strong growth in 1995 as net income
increased 36.3% to $65.7 million as compared to $48.2 million in 1994. The
increase was a result of a $20.6 million increase in net interest income and a
$10.9 million increase in noninterest income, partially offset by a $6.2 million
increase in noninterest expenses and a $7.8 million increase in income taxes.
Zions First National Bank's "efficiency ratio," or operating expenses as a
percentage of taxable-equivalent net revenues, improved to 57.8% in 1995 as
compared to 63.7% in 1994.

Staffing levels at Zions First National Bank increased 3% in 1995 while revenues
increased 15.4% and branches were expanded by 8 locations in its retail
operations, including 3 branches in southeastern Utah through the acquisition of
First Western National Bank in June 1995. Zions Bank also organized a new
division, Zions Small Business Finance, to focus on the origination of U.S.
Small Business Administration (SBA) guaranteed loans in major markets throughout
the country. This new division, which is headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri,
was established with experienced management, and currently has representatives
in eight states.

Several new initiatives were introduced in the Company's commercial banks, with
an emphasis on increasing customer convenience and access while reducing
redundancies in operations and functions which are transparent to the customer.
For example, Zions First National Bank expanded its "Reddi-Access"
customer-calling service and introduced customer service representatives on
extended hours to assist customers even at times when the branches are closed.
Zions First National Bank introduced "Zions Bank Electronic Bill Pay Service" in
March 1995, allowing customers to conveniently pay their monthly bills by
telephone. Zions First National Bank also introduced "PC Banker" in November
1995, a Visa(R) home banking product, which allows a retail customer to use a
home computer to access and conduct much of their banking business. Zions First
National Bank also contracted with the State of Utah to process its welfare
benefits payments electronically under a program known as "Utah Horizon." The
pilot program commenced in October 1995, with full introduction scheduled for
March 1996. This service allows recipients to access their benefits through the
use of an electronic card system.

Nevada

Nevada State Bank, a state-chartered Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
("FDIC")-insured institution, with its main office in downtown Las Vegas, opened
three new grocery store banking centers and one new branch during 1995,
expanding its banking offices to 25 in Nevada. Nevada State Bank achieved a net
income of $5.9 million in 1995 as compared to $6.1 million in 1994, after
amortization of purchase premium. The decline was a result of a $2.9 million
increase in net revenues and a $.4 million decrease in the provision for loan
losses offset by a $3.5 million increase in noninterest expenses.

Nevada State Bank plans to open 5 additional banking locations in 1996. Nevada
State Bank has expanded its corporate lending department with a focus on
servicing the mid-range small business customer and is consolidating its
"back-office" operations and expanding its use of affiliate resources, such as
its cash management programs and its customer call centers to better service its
customers.

Arizona

National Bank of Arizona, with its main office in Tucson, opened a new branch
office in downtown Phoenix during 1995 expanding its banking offices to 11 in
Arizona. A loan production office was also opened in Prescott, Arizona, during
the year. Net income at National Bank of Arizona was $12.0 million in 1995 as
compared to $11.3 million in 1994. The increase resulted from a net revenues
increase of $8.5 million offset by a $1.0 million increase in the provision for
loan losses, a $4.4 million increase in noninterest expenses and a $2.4 million
increase in income taxes.

In January 1996, Zions Bancorporation announced an agreement to acquire Southern
Arizona Bancorp, Inc., and its banking subsidiary, Southern Arizona Bank with 5
branches located in the greater Yuma, Arizona, area. When this acquisition is
completed, National Bank of Arizona will be located in all of Arizona's major
market areas.




OTHER SUBSIDIARIES

The Company conducts various other bank-related business activities through
subsidiaries owned by the Parent and wholly-owned subsidiaries of Zions First
National Bank. Zions Credit Corporation engages in lease origination and
servicing operations in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. Zions Life Insurance Company
underwrites, as reinsurer, credit-related life and disability insurance. Zions
Insurance Agency, Inc., operates an insurance brokerage business which
administers various credit-related insurance programs in the Company's
subsidiaries and sells general lines of insurance. The Company's insurance
subsidiaries offer customers a full range of insurance products through licensed
agents. The products include credit life products, collateral protection
products, life policies, homeowners policies, property and casualty policies,
and commercial business owner type policies. Zions Data Service Company provides
data processing services to all subsidiaries of the Company. Zions Mortgage
Company, a subsidiary of Zions First National Bank, conducts a mortgage banking
operation in Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. Zions Investment Securities, Inc., also
a subsidiary of the Bank, provides discount investment brokerage services on a
nonadvisory basis to both commercial and consumer customers. Personal investment
officers employed by the discount brokerage subsidiary in many larger offices
provide customers with a wide range of investment products, including municipal
bonds, mutual funds and tax-deferred annuities.

Zions Credit Corporation generated $81.8 million in new volume in 1995, a 29.6%
increase over the 1994 volume. An additional $5.6 million in leases was brokered
to third parties. Average lease receivables and conditional sales contracts
serviced by Zions Credit Corporation decreased 1.8% to $124.4 million during
1995.

Zions Insurance Agency, Inc. and Zions Life Insurance Company produced combined
net income of $.8 million in 1995, a 24.9% decease compared to 1994. The
decrease in net income was largely attributable to a decrease related to credit
life insurance and an increase in expenses relative to expansion.

Zions Data Service Company engaged in a variety of significant projects in 1995,
including assistance in implementing the PC Banker and electronic benefits
products in Zions First National Bank. The Company also established a World Wide
Web site (http://www.zionsbank.com) which will provide a new means of
communicating with customers as the Internet becomes an increasingly important
channel for distributing banking services. The Company made significant
acquisitions of software to improve the commercial banks' customer delivery and
information systems, including new software relating to consumer lending,
deposit account reconciliation, cash management, construction lending and ATM
systems. These systems will be installed throughout 1996.

Zions Mortgage Company achieved a net income of $1.0 million as compared to a
loss of $.3 million in 1994. Inasmuch as Zions Mortgage Company is a direct
subsidiary of Zions First National Bank, its results of operations are included
in the commercial banking operations results.

Zions Mortgage Company experienced a reduction in mortgage originations as a
result of an adverse interest rate environment and competitive pressures in
1995. Total retail mortgage origination volume decreased 24.8% to $287.7 million
in 1995. In anticipation of the reduction in volume, Zions Mortgage Company
reduced its staffing 16.7% in 1995. Through staff reductions and increased
automation, the Company reduced salaries and benefits expenses by 6.1% and other
noninterest expenses by 13.2% in 1995.

During the first quarter of 1996, Zions Mortgage Company will introduce the
"Home Express" loan program which will allow mortgage applicants to receive loan
decisions at the time of application. This product will reduce closing time on a
mortgage loan from 30 days to just 5-10 days.

During 1995, Zions Investment Securities, Inc. contributed $.8 million in pretax
income, rent income and revenue sharing to the Company's banking operations. Net
income, which is included in the commercial banking operations results, was $.3
million, a 47.2% increase from 1994. Zions Investment Securities, Inc. has 30
registered investment advisors who offer a full range of brokerage services and
products.

1995 ECONOMIC TRENDS

Zions Bancorporation is fortunate in that its primary market area -- the states
of Utah, Nevada and Arizona -- constitutes the fastest growing region in the
country. Nevada and Utah continued to lead the nation in nonfarm job growth for
the twelve months ended October, 1995, with job growth rates of 5.8% and 5.3%,
respectively. Arizona's employment growth rate, while more modest at 3.4%, was
still nearly double the national average growth rate of 1.8%. Personal income
growth in the Intermountain area has also been very strong over the past five
years, with an average growth rate of 7.3% as compared to a national growth rate
of 5.3%.




SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal
and state law. The information contained in this section summarizes portions of
the applicable laws and regulations relating to the supervision and regulation
of Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries. These summaries do not purport to
be complete, and they are qualified in their entirety by reference to the
particular statutes and regulations described. Any change in applicable law or
regulation may have a material effect on the business and prospects of Zions
Bancorporation and its subsidiaries.

Bank Holding Company Regulation

Zions Bancorporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank
Holding Company Act and is registered as such with the Federal Reserve Board.
Under the current terms of that Act, activities of Zions Bancorporation, and
those of companies which it controls or in which it holds more than 5% of the
voting stock, are limited to banking or managing or controlling banks or
furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, or any other
activity which the Federal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to
banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In
making such determinations, the Federal Reserve Board is required to consider
whether the performance of such activities by a bank holding company or its
subsidiaries can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such
as greater convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency that
outweigh the possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources,
decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking
practices.

Bank holding companies, such as Zions Bancorporation, are required to file with
the Federal Reserve Board certain reports and information and are required to
obtain prior approval of the Board to engage in a new activity or to acquire
more than 5% of any class of voting stock of any company. Pursuant to the
Riegle-Neal Interstate Branching and Efficiency Act of 1994 ("Riegle-Neal
Act"), subject to approval by the Federal Reserve Board, bank holding companies
are authorized to acquire either control of, or substantial assets of, a bank
located outside the bank holding company's home state. These acquisitions are
subject to limitations which are mentioned in the discussion on "Interstate
Banking" which follows. The Riegle-Neal Act reaffirms the right of states to
segregate and tax separately incorporated subsidiaries of a bank or bank holding
company. The Riegle-Neal Act also affects interstate branching and mergers.

The Federal Reserve Board has authorized the acquisition and control by bank
holding companies of savings and loan associations and certain other savings
institutions without regard to geographic restrictions applicable to acquisition
of shares of a bank.

The Federal Reserve Board is authorized to adopt regulations affecting various
aspects of bank holding companies. Pursuant to the general supervisory authority
of the Bank Holding Company Act and directives set forth in the International
Lending Supervision Act of 1983, the Federal Reserve Board has adopted capital
adequacy guidelines prescribing both risk-based capital and leverage ratios.




Regulatory Capital Requirements

Risk-Based Capital Guidelines

The Federal Reserve Board established risk-based capital guidelines for bank
holding companies effective March 15, 1989. The guidelines define Tier I Capital
and Total Capital. Tier I Capital consists of common and qualifying preferred
shareholders' equity and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated
subsidiaries, less goodwill and 50% (and in some cases up to 100%) of investment
in unconsolidated subsidiaries. Total Capital consists of Tier I Capital plus
qualifying mandatory convertible debt, perpetual debt, certain hybrid capital
instruments, certain preferred stock not qualifying as Tier I Capital,
subordinated and other qualifying term debt up to specified limits, and a
portion of the allowance for credit losses, less investments in unconsolidated
subsidiaries and in other designated subsidiaries or other associated companies
at the discretion of the Federal Reserve Board, certain intangible assets, a
portion of limited-life capital instruments approaching maturity and reciprocal
holdings of banking organizations' capital instruments. The Tier I component
must constitute at least 50% of qualifying Total Capital.

Risk-based capital ratios are calculated with reference to risk-weighted assets,
which include both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposures. The
risk-based capital framework contains four risk-weighted categories for bank
holding company assets -- 0%, 20%, 50%, and 100%. Zero percent risk-weighted
assets include, generally, cash and balances due from Federal Reserve Banks, and
obligations unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government or its agencies.
Twenty percent risk-weighted assets include, generally, claims on U.S. Banks and
obligations guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored agencies as well as general
obligations of states or other political subdivisions of the United States.
Fifty percent risk-weighted assets include, generally, loans fully secured by
first liens on one-to-four family residential properties, subject to certain
conditions. All assets not included in the foregoing categories are assigned to
the 100% risk-weighted category, including loans to commercial and other
borrowers. As of year-end 1992, the minimum required ratio for qualifying Total
Capital became 8%, of which at least 4% must consist of Tier I Capital. At
December 31, 1995, the Company's Tier I and Total Capital ratios were 11.38% and
14.23%, respectively.

The current risk-based capital ratio analysis establishes minimum supervisory
guidelines and standards. It does not evaluate all factors affecting an
organization's financial condition. Factors which are not evaluated include (i)
overall interest rate exposure; (ii) liquidity, funding, and market risks; (iii)
quality and level of earnings; (iv) investment or loan portfolio concentrations;
(v) quality of loans and investments; (vi) the effectiveness of loan and
investment policies; (vii) certain risks arising from nontraditional activities;
and (viii) management's overall ability to monitor and control other financial
and operating risks, including the risks presented by concentrations of credit
and nontraditional activities. The capital adequacy assessment of federal bank
regulators will, however, continue to include analyses of the foregoing
considerations and in particular, the level and severity of problem and
classified assets.

Minimum Leverage Ratio

On June 20, 1990, the Federal Reserve Board adopted new capital standards and
leverage capital guidelines that include a minimum leverage ratio of 3% Tier I
Capital to total assets (the "leverage ratio"). The leverage ratio is used in
tandem with the final risk-based ratio of 8% that took effect at the end of
1992.

The Federal Reserve Board has emphasized that the leverage ratio constitutes a
minimum requirement for well-run banking organizations having well-diversified
risk, including no undue interest rate exposure, excellent asset quality, high
liquidity, good earnings, and a composite rating of 1 under the Interagency Bank
Rating System. Banking organizations experiencing or anticipating significant
growth, as well as those organizations which do not exhibit the characteristics
of a strong, well-run banking organization described above, will be required to
maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory
levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the
Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it will consider a "tangible Tier I
Capital Leverage Ratio" (deducting all intangibles) and other indices of capital
strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. At December
31, 1995, the Company's Tier I leverage ratio was 6.28%.




The Federal Reserve Board has adopted amendments to its capital guidelines,
effective as of December 31, 1994, under which bank holding companies and state
member banks must deduct from Tier I Capital in calculating risk-based capital
and leverage ratios net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity
securities (i.e., those securities a bank does not have the positive interest
and ability to hold to maturity, but which it has no intent to trade as a part
of a trading account). Implementation of this amendment to the Federal Reserve
Board's capital guidelines has not resulted in a material increase in the
capital requirement applicable to it. The Federal Reserve Board has also adopted
a final rule amending its capital guidelines effective April 1, 1995, limiting
the amount of certain deferred tax assets that may be included by bank holding
companies and member banks in Tier I Capital for calculation of risk-based
capital and leverage ratios. Implementation of this amendment to the Federal
Reserve Board's capital guidelines has not resulted in a material increase in
the capital requirement applicable to it. The Federal Reserve Board has also
published amendments to its risk-based capital guidelines which would generally
increase the amount of capital required to be carried against certain long-term
derivative contracts; the amendments also recognized the effect of certain
bilateral netting arrangements in reducing potential future exposure under these
contracts. Zions Bancorporation does not anticipate that these amendments to the
Federal Reserve Board's capital guidelines will result in a material increase in
the capital requirements applicable to it.

Other Issues and Developments Relating to Regulatory Capital

Pursuant to such authority and directives set forth in the International Lending
Supervision Act of 1983, the Comptroller, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve
Board have issued regulations establishing the capital requirements for banks
under federal law. The regulations, which apply to Zions Bancorporation's
banking subsidiaries, establish minimum risk-based and leverage ratios which are
substantially similar to those applicable to the Company. As of December 31,
1995, the risk-based and leverage ratios of each of Zions Bancorporation's
banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum requirements.

By Federal Register notice dated August 2, 1995, the Federal Reserve Board, the
Comptroller and the FDIC sought public comment on a proposed policy statement
pursuant to which a bank's interest risk exposure would be measured utilizing a
supervisory model or approved internal bank model, but would also take into
account such factors as the quality of an institution's interest rate risk
management, internal controls and overall financial condition, including
earnings capacity, capital base and the level of other risks which may impair
future earnings or capital. Unless specifically exempted, banks would be
required to submit additional information to their primary federal regulator
regarding the maturity, repricing or price sensitivity of their various on- and
off-balance sheet instruments. The agencies expect that they will incorporate an
explicit minimum capital charge for interest rate risk (based in part on their
experience in applying the proposed policy statement) into their risk-based
capital standards. Zions Bancorporation does not anticipate that the adoption of
the proposed policy statement in its current form will result in a material
increase in the capital requirements applicable to it. However, until the final
terms of the proposed policy statement are known, Zions Bancorporation cannot
predict the effect of its implementation on the capital requirements applicable
to it.

On December 19, 1991, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991 ("FDICIA") was signed into law. Among other changes to federal banking
law effected by the legislation, FDICIA amended Section 38 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act to require the federal banking regulators to take "prompt
corrective action" in respect of banks that do not meet minimum capital
requirements and imposes certain restrictions upon banks which meet minimum
capital requirements but are not "well-capitalized" for purposes of FDICIA.
FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: "well-capitalized," "adequately
capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and
"critically undercapitalized."

Implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies in September
1992 and effective on December 19, 1992 define the capital categories for banks
which will determine the necessity for prompt corrective actions by the federal
banking agencies. A bank may be placed in a capitalization category that is
lower than is indicated by its capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory
examination rating with respect to certain matters.




Under the regulations, a "well-capitalized" institution has a minimum total
capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 10 percent, a minimum
Tier I capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6 percent, a
minimum leverage ratio of at least 5 percent, and is not subject to any written
order, agreement, or directive; an "adequately capitalized" institution has a
total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 8 percent, a Tier
I capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 4 percent, and a
leverage ratio of at least 4 percent (3 percent if given the highest regulatory
rating and not experiencing significant growth), but does not qualify as "well-
capitalized." An "undercapitalized" institution fails to meet any one of the
three minimum capital requirements. A "significantly undercapitalized"
institution has a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than
6 percent, a Tier I capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of less than 3
percent or a Tier I leverage ratio of less than 3 percent. A "critically
undercapitalized" institution has a Tier I leverage ratio of 2 percent or less.
Under certain circumstances, a "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," or
"undercapitalized" institution may be required to comply with supervisory
actions as if the institution was in the next lowest capital category.

Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of
restrictions and enforcement remedies. Under FDICIA, all insured banks are
generally prohibited from making any capital distributions and from paying
management fees to persons having control of the bank where such payments would
cause the bank to be undercapitalized. Holding companies of significantly
undercapitalized, critically undercapitalized and certain undercapitalized banks
may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before
paying capital distributions to their shareholders. Moreover, a bank that is not
well-capitalized is generally subject to various restrictions on "pass through"
insurance coverage for certain of its accounts and is generally prohibited from
accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on any deposits
significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or
nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited). Such banks and
their holding companies are also required to obtain regulatory approval prior to
their retention of senior executive officers.

Banks which are classified undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or
critically undercapitalized are required to submit capital restoration plans
satisfactory to their federal banking regulator and guaranteed within stated
limits by companies having control of such banks (i.e., to the extent of the
lesser of five percent of the institution's total assets at the time it became
undercapitalized or the amount necessary to bring the institution into
compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time the institution
fails to comply with its capital restoration plan, until the institution is
adequately capitalized on average during each of four consecutive calendar
quarters), and are subject to regulatory monitoring and various restrictions on
their operations and activities, including those upon asset growth,
acquisitions, branching and entry into new lines of business and may be required
to divest themselves of or liquidate subsidiaries under certain circumstances.
Holding companies of such institutions may be required to divest themselves of
such institutions or divest themselves of or liquidate nondepository affiliates
under certain circumstances. Critically undercapitalized institutions are also
prohibited from making payments of principal and interest on debt subordinated
to the claims of general creditors and are generally subject to the mandatory
appointment of a conservator or receiver.

Other Regulations

FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to adopt regulations prescribing
standards for safety and soundness of insured banks and their holding companies,
including standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal
audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure,
asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality, earnings and stock
valuation, as well as other operational and managerial standards deemed
appropriate by the agencies. Upon a determination by a federal banking agency
that an insured bank has failed to satisfy any such standard, the bank will be
required to file an acceptable plan to correct the deficiency. If the bank fails
to submit or implement an acceptable plan, the federal banking agency may, and
in some instances must, issue an order requiring the institution to correct the
deficiency, restrict its asset growth, increase its ratio of tangible equity to
assets, or impose other operating restrictions. The Riegle Community Development
and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, signed into law on September 23, 1994
(the "Riegle Act"), modified this provision of FDICIA to authorize the federal
banking agencies to prescribe safety and soundness standards by regulation or by
guidelines for all insured depository institutions, afford the federal banking
agencies flexibility to establish asset quality, earnings and stock valuation
standards that they determine to be appropriate and eliminate the requirement
that such standards apply to depository institution holding companies.




On July 10, 1995, the federal banking agencies published proposed guidelines
setting forth standards for asset quality and earnings, final guidelines with
respect to other safety and soundness standards required under FDICIA and a
final rule establishing deadlines and procedures for submission and review of
safety and soundness compliance plans and issuance of compliance orders. In the
view of the federal banking agencies, neither the proposed nor the final
standards represents a change in existing policies but, instead, formalizes
fundamental standards already applied by the agencies. In general, the standards
establish objectives of proper operations and management while leaving the
specific methods for achieving those objectives to each institution. The final
rule also implements the requirements of FDICIA regarding the submission and
review of safety and soundness plans by institutions failing to meet the
prescribed standards and the issuance of orders where institutions have failed
to submit acceptable compliance plans or implement an accepted plan in any
material respect. Zions Bancorporation does not believe that implementation of
the final guidelines and rule will have a material adverse effect upon the
operations or earnings of its bank subsidiaries. Until final guidelines
prescribing asset quality and earnings standards are adopted by the federal
banking agencies, Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the effect of their
application to its operations or earnings or the operations or earnings of its
subsidiaries.

FDICIA also contains provisions which, among other things, restrict investments
and activities as principal by state nonmember banks to those eligible for
national banks, impose limitations on deposit account balance determinations for
the purpose of the calculation of interest, and require the federal banking
regulators to prescribe, implement, or modify standards, respectively, for
extensions of credit secured by liens on interests in real estate or made for
the purpose of financing construction of a building or other improvements to
real estate, loans to bank insiders, regulatory accounting and reports, internal
control reports, independent audits, exposure on interbank liabilities,
contractual arrangements under which institutions receive goods, products or
services, deposit account-related disclosures and advertising, as well as to
impose restrictions on Federal Reserve discount window advances for certain
institutions and to require that insured depository institutions generally be
examined on-site by federal or state personnel at least every 12 months.

In connection with an institutional failure or FDIC rescue of a financial
institution, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of
1989 ("FIRREA") grants to the FDIC the right, in many situations, to charge its
actual or anticipated losses against commonly controlled depository institution
affiliates of the failed or rescued institution (although not against a bank
holding company itself). FIRREA also explicitly allows bank holding companies to
acquire healthy as well as troubled savings associations (including savings and
loan associations and federal savings banks) under Section 4 of the Bank Holding
Company Act. In connection with this authorization, the Federal Reserve Board
has been instructed not to impose so-called "tandem operating restrictions"
which might otherwise limit the joint marketing or joint operations of
affiliated banks and thrifts beyond those restrictions otherwise embodied in
law. FIRREA also relieves bank holding companies that own savings associations
of certain duplicative or intrusive savings and loan holding company regulations
and, in some instances, allows savings associations that have been acquired by
bank holding companies to merge into affiliated banks or become banks.

The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requires banks to help serve the credit
needs in their communities, including credit to low and moderate income
individuals and geographies. Should the Company or its subsidiaries fail to
adequately serve the community, there are penalties which might be imposed.
Corporate applications to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and
affiliates, and merge with or purchase other financial institutions could be
denied. Community groups are encouraged through the regulation to protest
applications for any bank subject to this regulation if they feel that the bank
is not serving the credit needs of the community in which it serves. The Company
and its subsidiaries have been deemed by regulators in the past to be adequately
serving its communities. Revisions by the regulators to CRA continue; therefore,
Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the effect that changes will have on its
operations and upon those of its subsidiaries.




The nature of the banking and financial services industry, as well as banking
regulation, may be further affected by various legislative and regulatory
measures currently under consideration. The most important of such measures
include legislation designed to permit increased affiliations between commercial
and financial firms (including securities firms) and federally-insured banks,
reduce regulatory burdens on financial institutions, limit the prerogative of
federal banking regulators to expand the range of permissible activities for
banks (particularly in the field of insurance), eliminate or revise the features
of the specialized savings association charter, and establish standards for
federal supervision of derivative activities of insured institutions. It is
impossible to predict whether or in what form these proposals may be adopted in
the future and, if adopted, what the effect of their adoption will be on Zions
Bancorporation or its subsidiaries.

There are many other regulations requiring detailed compliance procedures which
increase costs and require additional time commitments of employees. Regulators
and the Congress continue to put in place rules and laws to protect consumers,
which have a cumulative additional impact on the cost of doing business. At this
point, management cannot completely assess how much earnings might be affected
from these consumer laws.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

The insured bank subsidiaries of Zions Bancorporation are required to pay
quarterly deposit insurance assessments to the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF").
Pursuant to a directive in FDICIA, the FDIC revised its deposit insurance
regulation, effective October 1, 1993, to establish a permanent risk-based
assessment system. Under this system, each insured bank's insurance assessment
rate is determined by the risk assessment classification into which it has been
placed by the FDIC. The FDIC places each insured bank in one of nine risk
assessment classifications based upon its level of capital and supervisory
evaluations by its regulators: "well-capitalized" banks, "adequately
capitalized" banks or "less-than-adequately capitalized" banks, with each
category of banks divided into subcategories of banks which are either
"healthy," of "supervisory concern" or of "substantial supervisory concern."

Until May 31, 1995, the FDIC federal deposit insurance regulation established an
eight basis point spread between the assessment rate established for the highest
and lowest risk classification, so that banks classified as strongest by the
FDIC were subject to a rate of .23% of insured deposits (the same rate as under
the previous flat-rate assessment system) while those classified as weakest by
the FDIC are subject to a rate of .31% (with intermediate rates of .26%, .29%,
and .30%). On August 8, 1995, in recognition of the achievement by the BIF of
its target ratio of 1.25% of insured deposits, the FDIC adopted a new assessment
schedule, applied retroactively as of June 1, 1995, providing for an assessment
rate range of up to .31% (with intermediate rates of .07%, .14%, .21%, and .28%,
depending upon an institution's supervisory risk group). (The revised regulation
also established a procedure for adjusting assessment rates semiannually within
a range up to five basis points without seeking public comment.) The FDIC acted
on November 14, 1995 to further reduce BIF assessment rates, effective for the
semiannual period commencing on January 1, 1996 and ending on June 30, 1996. The
rate schedule adopted establishes an assessment rate range of 0% to .27% (with
intermediate rates of .03%, .10%, .17%, and .24%, depending upon an 
institution's supervisory risk group) subject to a minimum assessment of $1,000
per semiannual period. The FDIC also possesses authority to impose special
assessments from time to time. Implementation of the permanent risk-based
deposit insurance assessment system has not had a material adverse impact on
the financial condition or results of operations of Zions Bancorporation or
upon those of its bank subsidiaries.

The FDIC is also considering whether the deposit assessment base, against which
the applicable assessment rate is multiplied in determining the deposit
insurance assessment to be paid by each insured institution, should be redefined
in light of the adoption of the risk-based assessment system and certain
statutory and other developments effecting insured depository institutions.
Currently, the assessment base is defined to include the total domestic deposits
of each insured institution as adjusted for certain elements. Depending upon the
nature of the changes, if any, made by the FDIC to the definition of the
assessment base, the aggregate liabilities of each insured institution subject
to assessment could increase or could be reduced, or an assessment base
consisting of other than bank liabilities could be adopted, thereby potentially
affecting the earnings of each institution. Until the nature of the changes to
be adopted by the FDIC to the assessment base definition are known, Zions
Bancorporation cannot predict their effect upon its overall financial condition
or results of operations or upon those of its bank subsidiaries.




Interstate Banking

Existing laws and various regulatory developments have allowed financial
institutions to conduct significant activities on an interstate basis for a
number of years. During recent years, a number of financial institutions have
expanded their out-of-state activities and various states and the Congress have
enacted legislation intended to allow certain interstate banking combinations.

Under the laws of Utah, Nevada, an Arizona, respectively, any out-of-state bank
or bank holding company may acquire a Utah, Nevada, or Arizona bank or bank
holding company upon the approval of the bank supervisor of the state. There is
no requirement that the laws of the state in which the out-of-state bank or bank
holding company's operations are principally conducted afford reciprocal
privileges to Utah-, Nevada- or Arizona-based acquirers.

The Riegle-Neal Act dramatically affects interstate banking activities. As
discussed previously, the Riegle-Neal Act allows the Federal Reserve Board to
approve the acquisition by a bank holding company of control or substantial
assets of a bank located outside the bank holding company's home state.
Beginning on June 1, 1997, and earlier if permitted by applicable state law, an
insured bank may apply to the appropriate federal agency for permission to merge
with an out-of-state bank and convert its offices into branches of the resulting
bank. States retain the option to prohibit out-of-state mergers if they enact a
statute specifically barring such mergers before June 1, 1997 and such law
applies equally to all out-of-state banks.

Interstate mergers authorized by the Riegle-Neal Act are subject to conditions
and requirements, the most significant of which include adequate capitalization
and management of the acquiring bank or bank holding company, existence of the
acquired bank for up to five years before purchase where required under state
law, and limitations on control by the acquiring bank holding company of not
more than 10% of the total amount of deposits in insured depository institutions
in the United States or not more than 30% of the deposits in insured depository
institutions within that state. States may impose lower deposit concentration
limits, so long as those limits apply to all bank holding companies equally.
Additional requirements placed on mergers include conformity with state law
branching requirements and compliance with "host state" merger filing
requirements to the extent that those requirements do not discriminate against
out-of-state banks or out-of-state bank holding companies.

The Riegle-Neal Act also permits banks to establish and operate a "de novo
branch" in any state that expressly permits all out-of-state banks to establish
de novo branches in such state, if the law applies equally to all banks. (A "de
novo branch" is a branch office of a national bank or state bank that is
originally established as a branch and does not become a branch as a result of
an acquisition, conversion, merger, or consolidation.) Utilization of this
authority is conditioned upon satisfaction of most of the conditions applicable
to interstate mergers under the Riegle-Neal Act, including, inter alia, adequate
capitalization and management of the branching institution, satisfaction with
certain filing and notice requirements imposed under state law and receipt of
federal regulatory approvals.

Because important components of the Riegle-Neal Act have not yet become
effective, Zions Bancorporation cannot predict the effects of the Act's
implementation upon its operations or earnings or upon those of its
subsidiaries.

The commercial banking subsidiaries are supervised and regularly examined by
various federal and state regulatory agencies. Deposits, reserves, investments,
loans, consumer law compliance, issuance of securities, payment of dividends,
mergers and consolidations, electronic funds transfers, management practices,
and other aspects of operations are subject to regulation. In addition, numerous
federal, state, and local regulations set forth specific restrictions and
procedural requirements with respect to the extension of credit, credit
practices, the disclosure of credit terms, and discrimination in credit
transactions. The various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their
examination process, periodically review the banking subsidiaries' allowances
for loan losses. Such agencies may require the banking subsidiaries to recognize
additions to such allowances based on their judgments using information
available to them at the time of their examinations.

As a consequence of the extensive regulation of the commercial banking business,
the Company cannot yet assess the impact of these legislative and regulatory
mandates on the commercial banking industry which may increase the cost of doing
business that are not required of the industry's nonbank competitors.

Federal and state legislation affecting the banking industry have played, and
will continue to play, a significant role in shaping the nature of the financial
service industry. Various legislation, including proposals to overhaul the
banking regulatory system and to limit the investments that a depository
institution may make with insured funds, is from time to time introduced. The
Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that any potential legislation, if
enacted, would have upon its financial condition or operations.




In addition, there are cases pending before federal and state courts that seek
to expand or restrict interpretations of existing laws and their accompanying
regulations affecting bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. It is not
possible to predict the extent to which Zions Bancorporation and its
subsidiaries may be affected by any of these initiatives.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES AND ECONOMIC CONTROLS

The earnings and business of the Company are affected by general economic
conditions. In addition, fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various
regulatory authorities of the United States and by agencies can have important
consequences on the financial performance of the Company. The Company is
particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board which
regulate the national supply of bank credit. The instruments of monetary policy
available to the Federal Reserve Board include open-market operations in United
States government securities; changing the discount rates of member bank
borrowings; imposing or changing reserve requirements against member bank
deposits; and imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain
borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying
combinations to influence the overall growth of bank loans, investments and
deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits.

In view of changing conditions in the economy and the effect of the credit
policies of monetary authorities, it is difficult to predict future changes in
loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on the business
and earnings of Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries. Federal Reserve Board
monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of
commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the
future.

COMPETITION

Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries operate in a highly competitive
environment. The banking subsidiaries compete with other banks, thrift
institutions, credit unions and money market, and other mutual funds for
deposits and other sources of funds. In addition, Zions Bancorporation and its
bank and nonbank subsidiaries face increased competition with respect to the
diverse financial services and products they offer. Competitors include not only
other banks, thrift institutions, and mutual funds, but also leasing companies,
finance companies, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, and a variety
of other financial services and advisory companies. Many of these competitors
are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as are bank holding
companies and banks such as Zions Bancorporation and its banking subsidiaries.

The Company expects that competitive conditions will continue to intensify as a
result of technological advances. Technological advances have, for example, made
it possible for nondepository institutions to offer customers automatic transfer
systems and other automated-payment systems services that have been traditional
banking products.

EMPLOYEES

The Company employs approximately 3,075 full- and part-time people with
approximately 2,865 being employed by the banking subsidiaries. The Company had
2,855 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 1995, compared to 2,695 at
December 31, 1994. Banking subsidiaries had 2,650 full-time equivalent employees
at the end of 1995, compared to 2,506 a year earlier. The Company believes that
it enjoys good employee relations. In addition to competitive salaries and
wages, Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries contribute to group medical
plans, group insurance plans, pension, stock ownership and profit sharing plans.




SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

The following supplementary information, which is required under Guide 3
(Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies), is found in this report on
the pages indicated below, and should be read in conjunction with the related
financial statements and notes thereto.





ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES

In Utah, fifty-eight (58) of Zions First National Bank's ninety-four (94)
offices are located in buildings owned by the Company and the other thirty-six
(36) are on leased premises. In Nevada, four (4) of Nevada State Bank's
twenty-five (25) offices are located in buildings owned and the other 
twenty-one (21) are on leased premises, and in Arizona, National Bank of 
Arizona owns three (3) offices and leases eight (8) offices. The annual rentals
under long-term leases for such banking premises are determined under various 
formulas and include as various factors, operating costs, maintenance and taxes.

Zions Bancorporation is lessee under a 25-year lease, of which 24 years have
expired, of a 14-story building in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah. The Company's
subsidiaries have leased the ground floor and two other floors. The J.C. Penney
Company, Inc., has subleased nine floors for offices. The remaining two floors
are sublet to various tenants.

The Company's subsidiaries conducting lease financing, insurance, mortgage
servicing, and discount brokerage activities operate from leased premises.

For information regarding rental payments, see note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, which appears in Part II, Item 8, on page 59 of this
report.




ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

During 1988, a lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court, Utah
District, against Zions First National Bank in connection with its performance
of duties as an indenture trustee for certain investors in real estate and other
syndication projects. In September 1992, a motion was granted allowing an
amended complaint containing allegations that plaintiffs intend to proceed as a
class action to recover approximately $23 million, prejudgment interest,
attorneys' fees, and additional amounts under certain statutory provisions and
common law. A motion to certify the class was filed in March 1994 and opposition
to this motion was filed in April 1994. The Bank continues to vigorously defend
the entire action. Although no assurances can be given as to the outcome, the
Company continues to believe that it has meritorious defenses to such lawsuit,
and that there is insurance coverage for a substantial portion of the amount
claimed.

The Company is also the defendant in various other legal proceedings arising in
the normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the outcome of
any of such proceedings, including the lawsuit discussed in the preceding
paragraph, will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated earnings or
financial position.

ITEM 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1995.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages, positions, and backgrounds of the Company's executive officers
as of February 27, 1996, are set forth as follows:










PART II

ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
              STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Principal market where common stock is traded:

Nasdaq          National Market             Symbol "ZION"

High and low bid quotations on a quarterly basis for the past three years:





Number of common shareholders of record as of latest practicable date:

3,889 common shareholders as of February 27, 1996

Frequency and amount of dividends paid during three years:


             

Description of any restrictions on the issuer's present or future ability to pay
dividends:

Funds for the payment of dividends by Zions Bancorporation have been obtained
primarily from dividends paid by the commercial banking and other subsidiaries.
In addition to certain statutory limitations on the payment of dividends,
approval of federal and/or state banking regulators may be required in some
instances for any dividend to Zions Bancorporation by its banking subsidiaries.
The payment of future dividends therefore is dependent upon earnings and the
financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries as well as other
factors.




ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data is derived from the audited
consolidated financial statements of the Company. It should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and the related
notes and with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations and other detailed information included elsewhere herein.

(Dollars in thousands, except per share and ratio data)







ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

The following analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of
operations as of and for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the
Company and detailed information presented elsewhere herein.

OPERATING RESULTS

Zions Bancorporation's consolidated net income rose to $81.3 million in 1995 as
compared to net income of $63.8 million in 1994 and $58.2 million in 1993. Net
income per common share in 1995 was $5.53 as compared to $4.37 in 1994 and $4.08
in 1993. Earnings results for 1993 were positively affected in the net amount of
$1,659,000 or $.12 per share due to the cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles implemented during the first quarter of the year. The
Company's earnings for the year ended December 31, 1993 were also negatively
affected by a one-time expense of $6,022,000 included in noninterest expenses
related to early extinguishment of certain long-term debt.

The earnings results for 1995 represent a historic high for income before income
taxes and net income. Some of the factors affecting the increase in earnings
were a $28.5 million (14.3%) increase in net interest income, a $4.3 million
(17.8%) increase in service charges on deposit accounts, a $2.2 million (9.8%)
increase in other service charges, commissions and fees, a $9.7 million (66.2%)
increase in loan sales and servicing income and a $3.5 million (45.9%) decrease
in FDIC premiums expense. These increased contributions to income were partially
offset by a $2.1 million (245.0%) decrease in trading account income, a $.6
million (28.4%) increase in the provision for loan losses, a $9.6 million
(10.3%) increase in salaries and employee benefits, a $1.9 million (16.8%)
increase in furniture and equipment expense, a $3.2 million (10.2%) increase in
all remaining noninterest expenses, and a $10.1 million (32.5%) increase in
income taxes.

EARNINGS PERFORMANCE

NET INTEREST INCOME, MARGIN, AND INTEREST RATE SPREADS

Net interest income is the difference between the total interest income
generated by earning assets and the total interest cost of the funds used to
finance assets. Net interest income is the largest component of the Company's
revenue. The Company's taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by 14.3%
to $232.4 million in 1995 compared to $203.3 million in 1994. The increased
level of taxable-equivalent net interest income was influenced primarily by the
increase in average earning assets and an increased spread between the prime
lending rate and the short-term U.S. Treasury rate. The prime lending rate is
the primary basis used for pricing the Company's loans and the short-term
Treasury rate is the index used for pricing many of the Company's deposits. The
Company attempts to minimize interest rate movement sensitivity through the
management of interest rate maturities, and to a lesser extent, the use of
off-balance sheet arrangements such as interest rate caps, floors and interest
rate exchange contract agreements. During 1995, the Company had income net of
expense of $741,000 from the use of such off-balance sheet arrangements compared
to $967,000 in 1994 and $291,000 in 1993. The Company intends to continue to use
such off-balance sheet arrangements to the extent necessary to minimize its
exposure to changes in prevailing interest rates.

Net interest margin is a measure of the Company's ability to generate net
interest income and is computed by expressing net interest income (stated on a
fully taxable-equivalent basis) as a percentage of earnings assets. The
Company's net interest margin was 4.50% for 1995 as compared to 4.07% in 1994.
The increase in the margin was due primarily to the prime lending
rate/short-term U.S. Treasury spread. The prime/90 day T-bill spread was 3.31%
at December 1995 as compared to 2.88% at December 1994. The Company is unable to
effectively and economically hedge this basis point risk through the use of
off-balance financial instruments. The increase in net interest margin was
partially offset by the continued securitized sales of loans. Securitized sales
of loans convert net interest income from loans to other operating income. The
security resell agreements are primarily in U.S. government and U.S. government
agency securities which offer low yields but represent low risk to the Company
and require no consolidated "risk-based" capital.


The spread on average interest-bearing funds is the difference between the yield
on earning assets and on the cost of interest-bearing funds. The Company's
spread on average interest-bearing funds was 3.72% for 1995 as compared to 3.49%
in 1994. The spread on average interest-bearing funds was positively affected by
the same factors that increased the net interest margin.

Consolidated average balances, the amount of interest earned or paid, the
applicable interest rate for the various categories of earning assets and
interest-bearing funds which represent the components of net interest income for
the year 1995 and the previous four years; and interest differentials on a
taxable-equivalent basis and the effect on net interest income of changes due to
volume and rates for the years 1995 and 1994, are shown in tables on pages which
follow. Income computed on a taxable-equivalent basis is income adjusted to make
income and earning yields on assets exempt from income taxes comparable to other
taxable income. The incremental tax rate used for calculating the
taxable-equivalent adjustment was 30% in 1995 and 1994; 32% in 1993 and each of
the years prior.




DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY,
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, YIELDS AND RATES




- --------------------------------------------

1    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

2    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include
     nonaccrual and restructured loans.






DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY,
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, YIELDS AND RATES





1    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

2    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include
     nonaccrual and restructured loans.





DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY,
AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, YIELDS AND RATES





   --------------------------------------------

1    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

2    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include
     nonaccrual and restructured loans.






Analysis of Interest Changes Due to Volume and Rates






   --------------------------------------------

(1)    Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

(2)    Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include
     nonaccrual and restructured loans.



In the tables on the proceeding pages, the principal amounts of nonaccrual and
renegotiated loans have been included in the average loan balances used to
determine the rate earned on loans. Interest income on nonaccrual loans is
included in income only to the extent that cash payments have been received and
not applied to principal and is accrued on restructured loans at the reduced
rates. Certain restructured loan agreements call for additional interest to be
paid on a deferred or contingent basis. Such interest is taken into income only
as collected.

In the analysis of interest changes due to volume and rates, the changes due to
the volume/rate variance have been allocated to volume with the following
exceptions: when volume and rate have both increased, the variance has been
allocated proportionately to both volume and rate; when the rate has increased
and volume has decreased, the variance has been allocated to rate.




PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES

The provision for loan losses in 1995 increased by 28.4% to $2,800,000 as
compared to $2,181,000 in 1994 and $2,993,000 in 1993. The increase in the loan
loss provision resulted from net larger provisions in the Company's banking
subsidiaries in Arizona and Nevada. While the increase in the provision is large
as a percentage increase, the total provision remains at a low level, reflecting
continued improvement in credit risk management and a continuing healthy economy
which have produced decreases in nonperforming assets.

NONINTEREST INCOME

The Company's noninterest income increased by 18.5% to $86.7 million as compared
to $73.2 million in 1994 and $79.9 million in 1993. Service charges on deposits
increased by 17.8% in 1995 to $28.3 million, primarily as a result of price
increases and higher volumes in 1995. Other service charges, commissions and
fees increased by 9.8% in 1995 to $24.2 million, primarily as a result of
increased fees relating to commercial loan originations. Such increased fees
were partially offset by a decline in fees generated from sales of investment
products through the Company's discount brokerage operations and personal
investment officers, as well as fees from mortgage loan originations during
1995. Trading account income decreased by 245.0% to $(1.2) million in 1995 as
compared to $.9 million in 1994, due primarily to a $3.1 million trading loss
during the first quarter of 1995, which resulted in the transfer of Zions First
National Bank's capital markets operation in New York City to the bank's
headquarters in Salt Lake City. Loan sales and servicing income increased 66.2%
to $24.3 million primarily as a result of increased income on real estate loans
sold in 1995 and higher servicing fees during 1995 on securitized loans sold.
The Company does not recognize an initial gain on the sale of loans but
recognizes the income over the servicing life of the sale. Other income
decreased by 8.6% in 1995 to $7.0 million, primarily as a result of a smaller
gain on the sale of mortgage-servicing rights reported in 1995. The smaller gain
was partially offset by interest income received on a state income tax refund.

The following table presents the components of noninterest income for the years
indicated and a year-to-year comparison expressed in terms of percent changes.

                               NONINTEREST INCOME





                                                                    

NONINTEREST EXPENSES

Noninterest expenses increased by 7.9% in 1995 to $188.7 million as compared to
$174.9 million in 1994 and $167.8 million in 1993. Salaries and employee
benefits increased by 10.3% in 1995 to $103.0 million, primarily as a result of
increased staffing of branch offices opened and acquired and SBA loan
origination activities, as well as general salary increases, bonuses,
commissions and profit-sharing costs related to increased profitability.
Furniture and equipment expense increased 16.8% in 1995 to $13.2 million,
resulting primarily from the addition of branch facilities, the further
expansion of the ATM network, and the installation of personal computers and
local area networks.




The Company benefited by a decrease in F.D.I.C. premiums of 45.9% in 1995 to
$4.1 million as compared to $7.5 million in 1994 due to lower assessment rates.
Telecommunication costs increased 24.8% to $4.7 million as a result of
acquisitions and the expansion of ATM and other networks. All other expenses
increased 8.2% to $29.9 million in 1995 as compared to $27.6 million in 1994,
primarily due to increased ATM network service costs, amortization of
investments in community development companies and investment activity expenses.
The Company recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt in the amount of
$6.0 million during 1993. This expense consisted of marking to market an
interest rate exchange agreement entered into several years ago in conjunction
with the issuance of long-term floating rate notes, and writing off deferred
costs associated with the notes and industrial revenue bonds redeemed.

The following table presents the components of noninterest expenses for the
years indicated and a year-to-year comparison expressed in terms of percent
changes.

                              NONINTEREST EXPENSES




The following table presents full-time equivalent employees and banking offices
at December 31, for the years indicated:

                         FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT EMPLOYEES




INCOME TAXES

The Company's income taxes increased 32.5% to $41.0 million in 1995 compared to
$30.9 million in 1994 and $27.2 million in 1993 due to the increase in income
before income taxes and an increase in the Company's effective tax rate to 33.5%
in 1995 as compared to 32.6% in 1994.




QUARTERLY SUMMARY

The following table presents a summary of earnings and end-of-period balances by
quarter for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993:

             SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)












ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

LIQUIDITY

The Company manages its liquidity to provide adequate funds to meet its
financial obligations, including withdrawals by depositors, debt service
requirements and operating needs. Liquidity is primarily provided by the
regularly scheduled maturities of the Company's investment and loan portfolios.
In addition, the Company's liquidity is enhanced by the fact that cash, money
market securities, and liquid investments, net of short-term or "purchased"
liabilities and wholesale deposits, totaled $1,428.2 million or 37.3% of core
deposits at December 31, 1995.

The Company's core deposits, consisting of demand, savings, and money market
deposits, and small certificates of deposit, constituted 93.5% of total deposits
at December 31, 1995, as compared to 93.0% at December 31, 1994.

Maturing balances in loan portfolios provide flexibility in managing cash flows.
Maturity management of those funds is an important source of medium- to
long-term liquidity. The Company's ability to raise funds in the capital markets
through the "securitization" process and by debt issuances allows the Company to
take advantage of market opportunities to meet funding needs at a reasonable
cost.

The parent company's cash requirements consist primarily of principal and
interest payments on its borrowings, dividend payments to shareholders, and cash
operating expenses. The parent company's cash needs are routinely satisfied
through payments by subsidiaries of dividends, proportionate shares of current
income taxes, management and other fees, and principal and interest payments on
subsidiary borrowings from the parent company.

INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

Interest rate sensitivity measures the Company's financial exposure to changes
in interest rates. Interest rate sensitivity is, like liquidity, affected by
maturities of assets and liabilities. Interest rate sensitivity is measured in
terms of "gaps," defined as the difference between volumes of assets and
liabilities whose interest rates are subject to reset within specified periods
of time, and "duration," a measure of the weighted average expected lives of the
cash flows from assets and liabilities.

The Company, through the management of interest rate "maturities" and the use of
off-balance sheet arrangements such as interest rate caps, floors, futures,
options, and interest rate exchange agreements, attempts to minimize the effect
on net income of changes in interest rates. The Company's management exercises
its best judgment in making assumptions with respect to prepayments, early
withdrawals and other noncontrollable events in managing the Company's exposure
to changes in interest rates.

Information as to the Company's interest rate sensitivity is presented in a
table that follows. The interest rate gaps reported in the table arise when
assets are funded with liabilities having different repricing intervals, after
considering the effect of off-balance sheet hedging financial instruments. Since
these gaps are actively managed and change daily as the interest rate
environment changes, positions at the end of any period may not be reflective of
the Company's interest rate position in subsequent periods.




The following table presents information as to the Company's interest rate
sensitivity at December 31, 1995:

                    MATURITIES AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY
                              AT DECEMBER 31, 1995









EARNING ASSETS

Average earning assets increased 3.6% to $5,168.2 million in 1995 as compared to
the 1994 level of $4,990.4 million and the 1993 level of $4,220.1 million.
Earning assets comprised 91.3% of total average assets in 1995 compared with
91.5% in 1994, with average loans representing 50.3% of earning assets in 1995
compared to 51.6% in 1994.

The volume of liquid money market investments increased 7.7% to $936.8 million
in 1995 from $869.7 million in 1994. Average securities increased 5.6% to
$1,632.3 million in 1995 from $1,545.7 million in 1994. Average loan volume
increased .9% to $2,599.1 million in 1995 as compared to $2,575.0 million in
1994.

The following table sets forth the composition of average earning assets for the
years indicated:

                             AVERAGE EARNING ASSETS








INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO

Investment securities prior to December 31, 1993 were held to maturity and
carried at amortized cost. At December 31, 1993 the Company adopted SFAS No.
115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and
segregated the portfolio for securities held to maturity carried at amortized
cost, and securities available for sale carried at market. The following table
presents the Company's year-end investment securities portfolio.

                         INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO








MATURITIES AND AVERAGE YIELDS OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES

The following table presents by maturity range and type of security, the average
yield of the investment portfolio at December 31, 1995. The average yield is
based on effective rates on amortized cost at the end of the year.

             MATURITIES AND AVERAGE YIELDS OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
                              AT DECEMBER 31, 1995




* An effective tax rate of 30% was used to adjust tax-exempt securities yields
  to rates comparable to those on fully taxable securities.

At December 31, 1995, the value of the Accessor Funds Inc. and the Federal Home
Loan Bank of Seattle stock each exceeded ten percent of shareholders' equity.




LOAN PORTFOLIO

During 1995, the Company consummated securitized loan sales of home equity
loans, credit card receivables and automobile loans totaling approximately
$615.1 million, leading to a $44.9 million net increase in securitized
receivables outstanding, excluding long-term residential mortgages. After these
sales, loans and leases at December 31, 1995 totaled $2,837.9 million, an
increase of 17.5% compared to $2,416.1 million at December 31, 1994. Loans held
for sale; commercial, financial and agriculture loans; real estate and lease
financing increased 16.1%, 38.9%, 20.4%, and 2.3%, respectively, while consumer
loans and other receivables declined 12.8% and 2.9%, respectively.

The table below sets forth the amount of loans outstanding by type at December
31 for the years indicated:

                                 LOAN PORTFOLIO




The Company has no foreign loans in its loan portfolio.

LOANS SERVICED

In recent years, many banks and other financial institutions have had an
increasing tendency to "securitize" loans by pooling and selling them to
investors, with the servicing responsibilities and residual income in excess of
financing costs, servicing expenses, and loan losses accruing to the originating
institution. The securitization of receivables can assist an institution in
effectively utilizing its capital and enhancing its liquidity while a the same
time limiting its exposure to loss. The Company's participation in the
securitization process, as well as its participation in originating and selling
mortgage loans, SBA loans and student loans, has increased in recent years.
During 1995 the Company securitized and sold home equity credit line receivables
totaling $195.5 million, credit card receivables totaling $155.6 million, and
automobile loans totaling $264.0 million. Securitized loans serviced for
investors at December 31, 1995 totaled $831.5 million compared to $786.6 million
at December 31, 1994, and $464.2 million at December 31, 1993. At December 31,
1995, real estate loans serviced for others amounted to $1,540.5 million
compared to $1,760.1 million at December 31, 1994, and $1,650.4 million at
December 31, 1993.




LOAN MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES

The following table shows maturity distribution and sensitivity to changes in
interest rates of the loan portfolio at December 31, 1995:

          LOAN MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES



CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

Management of credit risk is a primary objective in maintaining a safe and sound
institution. To accomplish this task, the Company has written and placed in
effect loan policies to govern each of its loan portfolios. Loan policies assist
the Company in providing a framework for consistency in the acceptance of credit
and a basis for sound credit decisions. Generally, the Company makes its credit
decisions based upon debtor cash flow and available collateral. The Company has
structured its organization to separate the lending function from the credit
administration function to strengthen the control and independent evaluation of
credit activities. In addition, the Company has well-defined standards for
grading its loan portfolio, and maintains an internal Credit Examination
Department which periodically conducts examinations of the quality,
documentation, and administration of the Company's lending departments, and
submits reports thereon to a committee of the Board of Directors. Emphasis is
placed on early detection of potential problem credits so that action plans can
be developed on a timely basis to mitigate losses.

Another aspect of the Company's credit risk management strategy is the
diversification of the loan portfolio. At year-end, the Company had 5% of its
portfolio in loans held for sale, 24% in commercial loans, 54% in real estate
loans, 12% in consumer loans, and 5% in lease financing and other receivables.
The Company's real estate portfolio is also diversified. Of the total real
estate portfolio, 17% is in real estate construction loans, 6% is in home equity
credit lines, 27% is in 1-4 family residential loans and 50% is in commercial
loans secured by real estate. In addition, the Company attempts to avoid the
risk of an undue concentration of credits in a particular industry or trade
group, as indicated by the commercial loan and lease portfolio being allocated
over more than 17 major industry classifications. At year-end, the larger
concentrations in the commercial loan and leasing portfolios were in the
manufacturing, real estate, business service, and retail industry groupings,
which each comprised approximately 15% of the portfolio. The manufacturing group
was also well diversified over several subcategories. Agricultural and mining
loans comprise less than 6% of total commercial loans. The Company has no
significant exposure to highly leveraged transactions and has no foreign credits
in its loan portfolio.




LOAN RISK ELEMENTS

The following table shows the principal amounts of nonaccrual, past due 90 days
or more, restructured loans, and potential problem loans at December 31 for each
year indicated:



Includes loans held for sale.

Impact of Nonperforming Loans on Interest Income
- ------------------------------------------------

The following table presents the gross interest income on nonaccrual and
restructured loans that would have been recorded if these loans had been current
in accordance with their original terms (interest at original rates), and the
amount of interest income on these loans that was included in income for each
year indicated:




Potential problem loans consist primarily of commercial loans and commercial
real estate loans of $1 million. Management reviews loans graded "special
mention" and monitors the status of such loans for becoming potential problem
loans and their likelihood of becoming nonperforming loans. Management
considered no loans as potential problem loans at December 31, 1995 and 1994,
compared to two loans totaling $1,114,000, at December 31, 1993. Management
believes that for the near future, potential problem loans should remain at a
relatively low level.

The Company's total recorded investment in impaired loans, in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standard statements, amounted to $3,388,000 as of December
31, 1995. The Company considers a loan to be impaired when the accrual of
interest has been discontinued and meets other criteria under the statements.
The amount of the impairment is measured based on the present value of expected
cash flows, the observable market price of the loan, or the fair value of the
collateral. Impairment losses are included in the allowance for loan losses
through a provision for loan losses. The required allowance for loan losses
allocated to impaired loans as of December 31, 1995 amount to $22,000, which is
related to $884,000 of the total recorded investment.




NONPERFORMING ASSETS

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured loans, and other
real estate owned. Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when the loan
is 90 days or more past due as to principal or interest, unless the loan is in
the process of collection and well-secured. Consumer loans are not placed on a
nonaccrual status inasmuch as they are generally charged off when they become
120 days past due. Loans are occasionally restructured to provide a reduction or
deferral of interest or principal payments when the financial condition of the
borrower deteriorates and requires that the borrower be given temporary or
permanent relief from the contractual terms of the credit. Other real estate
owned is primarily acquired through or in lieu of foreclosure on credits that
are secured by real estate.

Nonperforming assets totaled $9.3 million as of December 31, 1995, a decrease of
50.9% from 18.9 million as of December 31, 1994. Nonperforming assets totaled
$30.6 million at December 31, 1993. Nonperforming assets represented .33% of net
loans and leases, other real estate owned and other nonperforming assets as
December 31, 1995, as compared to .79% and 1.23% at December 31, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of net loans and leases,
other real estate owned, and other nonperforming assets at December 31, 1995 are
at their lowest levels since at least 1985, the period during which records have
been maintained using the present definitions.

Accruing loans past due 90 days or more totaled $5.2 million as of December 31,
1995, as compared to $3.0 million at December 31, 1994 and $10.8 million at
December 31, 1993. These loans equal .19% of net loans and leases at December
31, 1995, as compared to .13% and .44% at December 31, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.

Continuous efforts have been made to reduce nonperforming loans and to liquidate
real estate owned properties in such a manner as to recover the greatest value
possible. Significant steps have been taken during the last few years to
strengthen the Company's credit culture by implementing a number of initiatives
designed to increase internal controls and improve early detection and
resolution of problem loans.

The following table sets forth the composition of nonperforming assets at
December 31 for the years indicated:

                              NONPERFORMING ASSETS






                        NONPERFORMING ASSETS (continued)




*Includes loans held for sale.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The Company's allowance for loan losses was 2.41% of net loans and leases at
December 31, 1995, as compared to 2.80% as of December 31, 1994 and 2.75% as of
December 31, 1993. Loan charge-offs decreased 28.2% and recoveries decreased
12.9% in 1995 as compared to 1994, which resulted in a ratio of net charge-offs
to average loans and leases of .10% in 1995, compared to .19% in 1994, and
(.23%) in 1993. The allowance for loan and lease losses relative to problem
loans continued to strengthen in 1995. The allowance, as a percentage of
noncurrent loans, was 533.2% in 1995 as compared to 401.9% in 1994, and 200.3%
in 1993. Noncurrent loans are defined as loans on which interest is not accrued,
plus loans ninety days or more past due on which interest continues to accrue.

In analyzing the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses, management
utilizes a comprehensive loan grading system to determine risk potential in the
portfolio, and considers the results of independent internal and external credit
reviews, historical charge-off experience, and changes in the composition and
volume of the portfolio. Other factors, such as general economic conditions and
collateral values, are also considered. Larger problem credits are individually
evaluated to determine appropriate reserve allocations. Additions to the
allowance are based upon the resulting risk profile of the portfolio developed
through the evaluation of the above factors.




SUMMARY OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE

The following table shows the changes in the allowance for losses for each year
indicated.





*Includes loans held for sale.




Review of nonperforming loans and evaluation of the quality of the loan
portfolio, as previously mentioned, results in the identification of certain
loans with risk characteristics which warrant specific reserve allocations in
the determination of the amount of the allowance for loan losses. The allowance
is not allocated among all loan categories, and amounts allocated to specific
categories are not necessarily indicative of future charge-offs. An amount in
the allowance not specifically allocated by loan category is necessary in view
of the fact that, while no loans were made with the expectation of loss, some
loan losses inevitably occur. The following is a categorization of the allowance
for loan losses for each year indicated:











DEPOSITS

Total average deposits increased 7.7% to $3,858.3 million in 1995 from $3,583.1
million in 1994. Total deposits increased 10.6% to $4,097.1 million at December
31, 1995 compared to $3,706.0 million at December 31, 1994. The Company's demand
deposits increased 12.7%, savings and money market accounts increased 5.6% and
certificates of deposit under $100,000 increased 30.2%, comparing December 31,
1995 to December 31, 1994. Domestic deposits over $100,000 increased 28.7% to
$158.9 million, while foreign deposits decreased 20.9% to $106.1 million at
December 31, 1995.

The following table presents the average amount and the average rate paid on
each of the following categories for each year indicated:

                    AVERAGE DEPOSIT AMOUNTS AND AVERAGE RATES



Most foreign deposits are in denominations of $100,000 or more.




SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

The following table sets forth data pertaining to the Company's short-term
borrowings for each year indicated:

(In thousands, except rates)

At December 31,
- ---------------



(a)   Federal funds purchased are on an overnight or demand basis. Rates on
      overnight and demand funds reflect current market rates.

(b)   Security repurchase agreements are primarily on an overnight or demand
      basis. Rates on overnight and demand funds reflect current market rates.
      Rates on fixed-maturity borrowings are set at the time of the borrowings.

(c)   Federal Home Loan Bank advances less than one year are overnight and
      reflect current market rates or reprice monthly based on one-month LIBOR
      as set by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. Other borrowings are
      primarily variable rate and reprice based on changes in the prime rate
      which reflect current market.


RETURN ON EQUITY AND ASSETS









CAPITAL RESOURCES

At year end, there were two measures of capital adequacy in use for commercial
banks and bank holding companies, as follows:

1.   Risk-based Capital

Risk-based capital guidelines require varying amounts of capital to be
maintained against different categories of assets, depending on the general
level of risk inherent in the assets. A capital allocation is also required for
off-balance sheet exposures such as letters of credit, loan commitment, and
interest rate contracts. The Company's total risk-based capital ratio was 14.23%
at December 31, 1995, 14.96% at December 31, 1994 and 14.12% at December 31,
1993. The minimum regulatory requirement is an 8% total risk-based capital ratio
of which 4% must be comprised of core capital. The minimum risk-based capital
ratio for a bank to be considered "well-capitalized" under the regulatory
definitions is 10%.

2.   Tier I Leverage

Under the risk-based capital guidelines, a bank holding company could, in
theory, significantly leverage its capital by investing in assets with little or
no credit risk. The guidelines place a limit on such leverage through the
establishment of a minimum level of tangible equity as a percentage of average
total assets. The Company's Tier I leverage ratio was 6.28% at December 31,
1995, 6.24% at December 31, 1994 and 5.44% at December 31, 1993, compared to the
minimum regulatory requirement of 3%.

The following table presents the regulatory risk-based capital at December 31
for the years indicated:

                  REGULATORY RISK-BASED CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31





*    Limited to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.

**   Limited to 50% of core capital and reduced by 20% per year during an
     instrument's last five years before maturity.




DIVIDENDS

The Company's quarterly dividend rate was $.41 per share for the fourth quarter
of 1995, $.35 per share for the second and third quarters of 1995, $.30 per
share for the first quarter of 1995, and for the third and fourth quarters of
1994, $.28 per share for the first and second quarters of 1994 and the third and
fourth quarters of 1993, and $.21 for the first and second quarters of 1993. The
annual dividend rate was $1.41 for 1995, $1.16 for 1994, and $.98 for 1993.
During the years 1991 through 1995 there was no preferred stock outstanding.

The following table sets forth dividends paid by the Company of each year
indicated:

                                 DIVIDENDS PAID




FOREIGN OPERATIONS

Zions First National Bank opened a foreign office located in Grand Cayman, Grand
Cayman Islands, B.W.I. in 1980. This office has no foreign loans outstanding.
The office accepts Eurodollar deposits from qualified customers of the Bank and
places deposits with foreign banks and foreign branches of other U.S. banks.
Foreign deposits at December 31, totaled $106,090,000 in 1995, $134,132,000 in
1994, and $68,563,000 in 1993; and averaged $139,212,000 for 1995, $108,383,000
for 1994, and $55,823,000 for 1993.




ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

                          Independent Auditors' Report

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Zions Bancorporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zions
Bancorporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the
related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1995. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Zions Bancorporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for impairment of loans receivable to
adopt the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan, as amended by Statement No. 118, Accounting by Creditors
for Impairment of a Loan-Income Recognition and Disclosures, on January 1, 1995.
As discussed in notes 1 and 13, the Company changed its method of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions in 1993 to adopt the provisions of
Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than
Pensions. As discussed in notes 1 and 7, the Company also changed its method of
accounting for income taxes in 1993 to adopt the provisions of Statement No.
109, Accounting for Income Taxes. As discussed in notes 1 and 3, the Company
also changed its method of accounting for investments to adopt the provisions of
Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities, on December 31, 1993.



                                                 KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Salt Lake City, Utah
January 22, 1996




                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1995 and 1994

                      (In thousands, except share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
                  Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements



                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                  Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
                                 (In thousands)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements



                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings
                  Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
                                 (In thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      ZIONS BANCORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                  Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993



1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BUSINESS - Zions Bancorporation (the Parent) is a multibank holding company
organized under the laws of Utah in 1955, which provides a full range of banking
and related services through its subsidiaries located primarily in Utah, Nevada,
and Arizona.

BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION - The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries
(the Company). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. Certain amounts in prior years' consolidated
financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 1995 presentation.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
balance sheet and revenues and expenses for the period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

SECURITY RESELL AGREEMENTS - Security resell agreements represent overnight and
term agreements, the majority maturing within 30 days. Either the Company, or in
some instances third parties on behalf of the Company take possession of
underlying securities. The market value of such securities is monitored
throughout the contract term to ensure that asset value remains sufficient to
protect against counter party default.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES - The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities on December 31, 1993. Under Statement
No. 115, the Company classifies its investment securities in one of three
categories: trading, available for sale, or held to maturity. Trading securities
are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near
term. Held to maturity securities are those securities which the Company has the
ability and intent to hold until maturity. All other securities not included in
trading or held to maturity are classified as available for sale.

Trading securities (including futures and options used to hedge trading
positions against interest rate risk) and available for sale securities are
recorded at fair value. Held to maturity securities are recorded at amortized
cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion of premiums or discounts.
Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in
earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of related tax effect, on
available for sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a
separate component of shareholders' equity until realized. Transfers of
securities between categories are recorded at fair value at the date of
transfer. Unrealized holding gains and losses are recognized in earnings for
transfers into trading securities. Unrealized holding gains or losses associated
with transfers of securities from held to maturity to available for sale are
recorded as a separate component of shareholders' equity. The unrealized holding
gains or losses included in the separate component of equity for securities
transferred from available for sale to held to maturity are maintained and
amortized into earnings over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment
to yield in a manner consistent with the amortization or accretion of premium or
discount on the associated security.

A decline in the market value of any available for sale or held to maturity
security below cost that is deemed other than temporary is charged to earnings
resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the security.

Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related
held to maturity security as an adjustment to yield using the effective-interest
method. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. Realized gains
and losses for securities classified as available for sale and held to maturity
are included in earnings and are derived using the specific-identification
method of determining the cost of securities sold.

LOAN FEES - Nonrefundable fees and related direct costs associated with the
origination of loans are deferred. The net deferred fees and costs are
recognized in interest income over the loan term using methods that generally
produce a level yield on the unpaid loan balance. Other nonrefundable fees
related to lending activities other than direct loan origination are recognized
as other operating income over the period the related service is provided.
Bankcard discounts and fees charged to merchants for processing transactions
through the Company are shown net of interchange discounts and fees expense, and
are included in other service charges, commissions, and fees.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


MORTGAGE LOAN SERVICING - Mortgage loan servicing fees are based on a stipulated
percentage of the outstanding loan principal balances being serviced and are
included in income as related loan payments are collected from mortgagors. Costs
associated with the acquisition of loan servicing rights through the purchase of
servicing contracts or bulk loan purchases are deferred and amortized over the
lives of loans being serviced in proportion to the estimated net loan servicing
income.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES - The allowance for loan losses is based on
management's periodic evaluation of the loan portfolio and reflects an amount
that, in management's opinion, is adequate to absorb losses in the existing
portfolio. In evaluating the portfolio, management takes into consideration
numerous factors, including current economic conditions, prior loan loss
experience, the composition of the loan portfolio, and management's estimate of
anticipated credit losses. Management believes that the allowance for loan
losses is adequate. While management uses available information to recognize
losses on loans, future additions to the allowance may be necessary based on
changes in economic conditions. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an
integral part of their examination process, periodically review the Company's
allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Company to recognize
additions to the allowance based on their judgments using information available
to them at the time of their examination.

IMPAIRED LOANS - The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (Statement) No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment
of a Loan, as amended by Statement No. 118, Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan-Income Recognition and Disclosure, on January 1, 1995. The
Company considers a loan to be impaired when the accrual of interest has been
discontinued. The amount of the impairment is measured based on the present
value of expected cash flows, the observable market price of the loan, or the
fair value of the collateral. Impairment losses are included in the allowance
for loan losses through a provision for loan losses. The Company primarily uses
a cost recovery accounting method to recognize interest income on impaired
loans.

PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT - Premises and equipment are stated at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation, computed on the
straight-line method, is charged to operations over the estimated useful lives
of the properties. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the terms of
respective leases or the estimated useful lives of the improvements, whichever
is shorter. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, accumulated depreciation and
amortization totaled $77,400,000 and $70,520,000, respectively.

NONPERFORMING ASSETS - Nonperforming assets are comprised of loans for which the
accrual of interest has been discontinued, loans for which the terms have been
renegotiated to less than market rates due to a weakening of the borrower's
financial condition (restructured loans), and other real estate acquired
primarily through foreclosure that is awaiting disposition.

Loans are generally placed on a nonaccrual status when principal or interest is
past due 90 days or more unless the loan is both well secured and in the process
of collection, or when in the opinion of management, full collection of
principal or interest is unlikely. Generally, consumer loans are not placed on a
nonaccrual status, inasmuch as they are generally charged off when they become
120 days past due.

Other real estate owned is carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Real estate may be considered to be in-substance foreclosed and included herein
when specific criteria are met. When property is acquired through foreclosure,
or substantially foreclosed, any excess of the related loan balance over net
realizable value is charged to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent write
downs or losses upon sale, if any, are charged to other real estate expense.

AMOUNTS PAID IN EXCESS OF NET ASSETS OF ACQUIRED BUSINESSES (GOODWILL) - The
Company assesses the recoverability of this intangible asset by determining
whether the amortization of the goodwill balance over its remaining life can be
recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows of the acquired
operation. The amount of goodwill impairment, if any, is measured based on
projected discounted future operating cash flows using a discount rate
reflecting the Company's average cost of funds.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - In the ordinary course of business,
the Company has entered into off-balance sheet financial instruments consisting
of commitments to extend credit, commercial letters of credit, and standby
letters of credit. Such financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated
financial statements when they become payable.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The credit risk associated with these commitments is considered in management's
determination of the allowance for loan losses.

INTEREST RATE EXCHANGE CONTRACTS AND CAP AND FLOOR AGREEMENTS - The Company
enters into interest rate exchange contracts (swaps) and cap and floor
agreements in the management of interest rate risk. The objective of these
financial instruments is to match estimated repricing periods of
interest-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to reduce interest rate
exposure. These instruments are used only to hedge asset and liability
portfolios and are not used for speculative purposes. Therefore, these
instruments are not marked to market. Fees associated with these financial
instruments are accreted into interest income or amortized to interest expense
on a straight-line basis over the lives of the contracts and agreements. Gains
or losses on early termination of a swap are amortized on the remaining term of
the contract when the underlying assets or liabilities still exist. Otherwise,
such gains or losses are fully expensed or recorded as income at the termination
of the contract. The net interest received or paid on these contracts is
reflected on a current basis in the interest expense or income related to the
hedged obligation or asset.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the
Company considers due from banks to be cash equivalents.

The Company paid interest of $203.0 million, $156.1 million, and $120.8 million,
respectively, and income taxes of $44.4 million, $27.9 million, and $26.3
million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993.
Loans transferred to other real estate owned totaled $.9 million, $3.3 million,
and $1.2 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and
1993.

The exercise of stock options under the Company's non-qualified stock option
plan, during 1995 and 1994, resulted in tax benefits reducing the Company's
current income tax payable and increasing common stock in the amounts of $.8
million and $.1 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively.

INCOME TAXES - Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted the provisions of
Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and has reported the cumulative
effect of that change in the method of accounting for income taxes in the 1993
consolidated statement of income. Under the asset and liability method of
Statement No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. Under Statement No. 109, the effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period that includes the enactment date.

PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS - The Company has a defined benefit
pension plan covering substantially all of its employees. The benefits are based
on years of service and employees' compensation levels. The cost of this program
is being funded currently. The Company has other trustee retirement plans
covering all qualified employees who have at least one year of service (see note
13).

The Company sponsors a defined benefit health care plan for substantially all
retirees and employees. Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement
No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions,
which establishes a new accounting principle for the cost of retiree health care
and other postretirement benefits (see note 13). Prior to 1993, the Company
recognized these benefits on the pay-as-you-go method (i.e., cash basis). The
cumulative effect of the change in method of accounting for postretirement
benefits other than pensions is reported in the 1993 consolidated statement of
income.

TRUST ASSETS - Assets held by the Company in a fiduciary or agency capacity for
customers are not included in the consolidated financial statements as such
items are not assets of the Company.

STOCK OPTIONS - Proceeds from the sale of stock issued under options are
credited to common stock. The Company makes no charges against earnings with
respect to stock options issued under its qualified stock option plan. The
Company charges income for the difference between the option price and market
value on the date of grant with respect to stock options issued under its
nonqualified stock option plan.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE - Net income per common share is based on the
weighted average outstanding common shares during each year, including common
stock equivalents, if applicable.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT ADOPTED - In May 1995, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement No. 122, Accounting for Mortgage Servicing
Rights which amends Statement No. 65, Accounting for Certain Mortgage Banking
Activities, to require that a company recognize as separate assets rights to
service mortgage loans for others, however those servicing rights are acquired.
When a company acquires mortgage servicing rights through either the purchase or
origination of mortgage loans and sells or securitizes those loans with
servicing rights retained, it is required to allocate the total cost of the
mortgage loans to the mortgage servicing rights and the loans based on their
relative fair values.

This Statement further requires that a company assess its capitalized mortgage
servicing rights for impairment based on the fair value of those rights, and
requires that rights to service mortgage loans for others be recognized as a
separate asset. Statement No. 122 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1995. Management does not expect its adoption to have a significant
impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Statement No. 123 defines a fair
value-based method of accounting for an employee stock option. Fair value of the
stock option is determined considering factors such as the exercise price, the
expected life of the option, the current price of the underlying stock and its
volatility, expected dividends on the stock, and the risk-free interest rate for
the expected term of the option. Under the fair value-based method, compensation
cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is
recognized over the service period. A company may elect to adopt Statement No.
123 or elect to continue accounting for its stock option or similar equity
awards using the intrinsic method, where compensation cost is measured at the
date of grant based on the excess of the market value of the underlying stock
over the exercise price. If a company elects not to adopt Statement No. 123, it
must provide pro forma disclosure of net income and earnings per share, as if
the fair value-based method had been applied.

Statement No. 123 is effective for transactions entered into for fiscal years
that begin after December 15, 1995. Pro forma disclosures for entities that
elect to continue to measure compensation cost under the old method must include
the effects of all awards granted in fiscal years that begin after December 15,
1994. It is currently anticipated that the Company will continue to account for
stock-based compensation plans under the intrinsic method and therefore, the
adoption of Statement No. 123 will have no effect on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.


2. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

On June 5, 1995, the Company acquired First Western Bancorporation (First
Western) in Moab, Utah for 261,611 shares of common stock. This acquisition was
not material to the Company's consolidated financial position and was accounted
for as a purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the net book
value of First Western of $4.4 million is included in goodwill.

On January 14, 1994, the Company and National Bancorp of Arizona Inc. (NBA)
consummated their agreement and plan of reorganization whereby the Company
issued 1,456,408 shares of its common stock for 100 percent of the outstanding
common stock of NBA. The consolidated financial statements of the Company give
effect to the merger, which has been accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Accordingly, the accounts of NBA have been combined with those of the Company
for all periods presented. Separate results of operations of the combining
entities for 1993 are as follows (in thousands):


Also during 1994, the Company acquired Rio Salado Bancorp (Rio) for 328,000
shares of common stock. This acquisition was not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position and was accounted for as a purchase. The
difference between the purchase price and the net book value of Rio of $7.6
million is included in goodwill.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


On October 29, 1993, Wasatch Bancorp (Wasatch) was merged into the Company. The
Company issued 373,335 shares of its common stock for 100 percent of the
outstanding common stock of Wasatch. The acquisition has been accounted for as a
pooling of interests. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for
1993 and 1992 have not been restated inasmuch as the historical operations of
Wasatch are not significant to the Company.

On January 17, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire Southern
Arizona Bancorp, Inc. (SAB) of Yuma, Arizona, which has assets of approximately
$125 million. In return for 100 percent of SAB's outstanding common stock, the
Company will issue approximately 360,000 shares of its common stock, subject to
adjustment under certain conditions. This acquisition is expected to be
accounted for as a purchase. The Company currently expects consummation of this
acquisition in the first half of 1996, subject to regulatory approvals and other
conditions of closing.


3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES

Investment securities as of December 31, 1995, are summarized as follows (in
thousands):







                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Investment securities as of December 31, 1994, are summarized as follows (in
thousands):







The Company adopted Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities on December 31, 1993. The change in net unrealized
holding gains (losses) on securities available for sale for the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993 were $7,716,000, ($6,281,000), and $415,000,
respectively, after related tax effect. These gains (losses) are collectively
reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity with December 31, 1995
and 1994 balances of $1,850,000 and ($5,866,000), respectively, after related
tax effect.

During December 1995 the Company, in accordance with the provisions of "A Guide
to Implementation of Statement 115 on Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities" issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
elected to make a one-time reassessment of its classification of investment
securities. In connection therewith the Company transferred securities having an
amortized cost of $40.2 million and a market value of $41.5 million from the
held to maturity category to the available for sale category. The net unrealized
holding gain of $1.3 million recognized with this transfer is included in the
balance of net unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale
reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

 In 1995, the Company sold securities from its held to maturity portfolio. This
was in response to the deterioration of the issuer's credit worthiness and
continued downgrading in the issuer's published credit rating. The amortized
cost of the sold securities totaled $6,602,000 and the related realized gain
amounted to $200,000.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The amortized cost and estimated market value of investment securities as of
December 31, 1995, by contractual maturity, excluding mortgage-backed and equity
securities, are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or repay obligations
with or without call or prepayment penalties (in thousands):





Gross gains of $1,129,000, $367,000, and $104,000 and gross losses of
$1,277,000, $666,000, and $121,000 were realized on sales of investment
securities for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.
Such amounts include gains of $14,000, $102,000, and $10,000, and losses of
$61,000, $66,000, and $32,000, respectively, for sales of mortgage-backed
securities.

As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, securities with an amortized cost of
$226,068,000 and $210,149,000, respectively, were pledged to secure public and
trust deposits, advances, and for other purposes as required by law. In
addition, the Federal Home Loan Bank stock is pledged as security on the related
advances (note 8).


4. LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

Loans are summarized as follows (in thousands):



As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, loans with a carrying value of $103,409,000
and $121,886,000, respectively, were pledged as security for Federal Home Loan
Bank advances (note 8).



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


During 1995, 1994, and 1993, the Company purchased mortgage servicing rights
totaling $.4 million, $.6 million, and $1.7 million, respectively. Amortization
of purchased mortgage servicing rights totaled $1.2 million, $1.7 million, and
$2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993,
respectively.

During 1995, 1994, and 1993, consumer and other loan securitization sales
totaled $615 million, $703 million, and $609 million, respectively. Loan sales
income related thereto is recognized on the basis of cash flows received from
the securitized assets. Loan sales income, excluding servicing, amounted to
$18.4 million in 1995, $11.7 million in 1994, and $14.7 million in 1993.

The allowance for loan losses is summarized as follows (in thousands):




Included in the allowance for loan losses is an allocation for unused
commitments and letters of credit in the amounts of $7,516,000 and $3,674,000 at
December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Nonperforming loans, leases, and related interest foregone are summarized as
follows (in thousands):



The Company adopted Statement No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of
a Loan, as amended by Statement No. 118, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment
of a Loan - Income Recognition and Disclosure, on January 1, 1995. The Company's
total recorded investment in impaired loans, in accordance with these
Statements, amounted to $3,388,000 as of December 31, 1995. The required
allowance for loan losses allocated to impaired loans as of December 31, 1995
amounted to $22,000, which is related to $884,000 of the total recorded
investment.


5. DEPOSITS

Deposits are summarized as follows (in thousands):





                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Interest expense on deposits is summarized as follows (in thousands):



6. SECURITY REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS

Security repurchase agreements represent funds borrowed on a short-term basis
through the sale of securities to counterparties under agreements to repurchase
the same securities. The Company participates in overnight and term repurchase
agreements. Most of the overnight agreements are performed with sweep accounts
in conjunction with a master repurchase agreement. In this case, securities are
pledged for and interest is paid on the collected balance of the customers'
accounts. The average interest rates pertaining to outstanding repurchase
agreements at December 31, 1995 were 5.8 percent, 5.2 percent, and 4.9 percent
for U.S. Treasuries, U.S. government agencies, and Small Business Administration
pools, respectively.

Repurchase agreements are summarized as follows (in thousands):




7. INCOME TAXES

The Company adopted Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, as of
January 1, 1993. The cumulative effect of this adoption was an increase in net
income of $7,419,000, as reported in 1993.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Income taxes are summarized as follows (in thousands):



A reconciliation between income tax expense computed using the statutory federal
income tax rate (35 percent in 1995, 1994, and 1993), and actual income tax
expense is as follows (in thousands):



The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 1995
and 1994, are presented below (in thousands):





                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Pursuant to Statement No. 109, the Company has determined that it is not
required to establish a valuation reserve for the deferred tax asset since it is
"more likely than not" that it will be principally realized through future
taxable income and tax planning strategies. The Company's conclusion that it is
"more likely than not" that the deferred tax asset will be realized is based on
history of growth in earnings and the prospects for continued growth and
profitability.

The Company has net operating loss carryforwards totaling $23,965,000 that
expire in the years 2006 and 2007.


8. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES AND OTHER BORROWINGS

Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings as of December 31, 1995 and
1994, include $86,174,000 and $101,571,000, respectively, borrowed by Zions
First National Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary, (the Bank) under its line of
credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. The line of credit provides
for borrowing of amounts up to ten percent of total assets. The line of credit
is secured under a blanket pledge whereby the Bank maintains unencumbered
security with par value, which has been adjusted using a pledge requirement
percentage based upon the types of securities pledged, equal to at least 100
percent of outstanding advances, and, Federal Home Loan Bank stock. There are no
withdrawal and usage restrictions or compensating balance requirements.

Substantially all Federal Home Loan Bank advances reprice with changes in market
interest rates or have short terms to maturity. The carrying value of such
indebtedness is deemed to approximate market value (note 16).

Maturities of outstanding advances at December 31, 1995 in excess of one year
are as follows (in thousands):




9. LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt is summarized as follows (in thousands):



Subordinated notes includes $50,000,000 of 8-5/8 percent notes that mature in
2002. These notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In addition, the Company
has $4,000,000 of 9-percent subordinated notes that mature in full on November
1, 1998 and may be called, at the option of the Company, on or after November 1,
1996 at par. The subordinated notes are unsecured and require semiannual
interest payments.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Maturities and sinking fund requirements on long-term debt at December 31, 1995
for each of the succeeding five years are as follows (in thousands):



10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

The Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in
the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers and
to reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. These financial
instruments include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit,
interest rate caps and floors, interest rate exchange contracts, and commitments
to purchase and sell securities. Those instruments involve, to varying degrees,
elements of credit, market, and interest rate risk in excess of the amount
recognized in the balance sheets. The Company's exposure to credit loss in the
event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument for
commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit is represented by the
contractual notional amount of those instruments. The Company uses the same
credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for
on-balance sheet instruments. For interest rate caps, floors, and exchange
contract transactions, the contract or notional amounts do not represent
exposure to credit loss. The Company controls the credit risk of these
transactions through credit approvals, limits, and monitoring procedures.

Unless noted otherwise, the Company does not require collateral or other
security to support financial instruments with credit risk.

Notional values of financial instruments are summarized as follows:



Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as
there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments
generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may
require payment of a fee.

Commitments totaling $1,219,700,000 expire in 1996. Since many of the
commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total
commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The
Company evaluates each customer's credit worthiness on a case-by-case basis. The
amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the Company upon extension
of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation of the counter party.
Collateral held varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property,
plant and equipment, and income-producing commercial properties.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Standby letters of credit written are conditional commitments issued by the
Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Those
guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing
arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar
transactions. Standby letters of credit include commitments in the amount of
$49,684,000 expiring in 1996 and $1,240,000 expiring thereafter through 2005.
The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as
that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. The Company generally
holds marketable securities and cash equivalents as collateral supporting those
commitments for which collateral is deemed necessary.

The Company enters into interest rate contracts, including interest rate caps,
floors, futures, options, and interest rate exchange contract agreements in
managing its interest rate exposure. Interest rate caps and floors obligate one
of the parties to the contract to make payments to the other if an interest rate
index exceeds a specified upper "capped" level or if the index falls below a
specified "floor" level. A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a
quantity of a financial instrument or commodity at a predetermined future date
and rate or price. An option contract is an agreement that conveys to the
purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a quantity of a
financial instrument or commodity at a predetermined rate or price at a time in
the future. Interest rate exchange contract agreements involve the exchange of
fixed and variable rate interest payments based upon a notional amount and
maturity. Interest rate caps and exchange contracts to which the Company is a
party at December 31, 1995, have remaining terms of 1 to 19 years and 8 to 33
months, respectively. The fair value of interest rate contracts are obtained
from deal quotes, or discounted cash flow analyses. The values represent the
estimated amount the Company would receive or pay for comparable contracts,
taking into account current interest rates. Notional values of interest rate
contracts are summarized as follows (in thousands):



The contract or notional amount of financial instruments indicates a level of
activity associated with a particular class of financial instrument and is not a
reflection of the actual level of risk. As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the
regulatory risk-weighted values assigned to all off-balance sheet financial
instruments described herein totaled $166,382,000 and $177,347,000,
respectively. See note 4 for consideration of financial instruments in
management's determination of the allowance for loan losses.

During 1988, a lawsuit was brought in the United States District Court, Utah
District, against Zions First National Bank in connection with its performance
of duties as an indenture trustee for certain investors in real estate and other
syndication projects. In September 1992, a motion was granted allowing an
amended complaint containing allegations that plaintiffs intend to proceed as a
class action to recover approximately $23 million, prejudgment interest,
attorneys' fees, and additional amounts under certain statutory provisions and
common law. A motion to certify the class was filed in March 1994 and opposition
to this motion was filed in April 1994. The Company continues to vigorously
defend the entire action. Although no assurances can be given as to the outcome,
the Company continues to believe that it has meritorious defenses to such
lawsuit, and that there is insurance coverage for a substantial portion of the
amount claimed.

The Company is also the defendant in various other legal proceedings arising in
the normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the outcome of
any of such proceedings, including the lawsuit discussed in the preceding
paragraph, will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
position.

In connection with loans sold to (or serviced for) others, the Company is
subject to recourse obligations on approximately $50 million as of December 31,
1995.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The Company has commitments for leasing premises and equipment under the terms
of noncancelable leases expiring from 1996 to 2005. Future aggregate minimum
rental payments under existing noncancelable leases at December 31, 1995 are as
follows (in thousands):



Future aggregate minimum rental payments have been reduced by noncancelable
subleases as follows: 1996, $538,000; 1997, $8,000; and 1998, $-0-. Aggregate
rental expense on operating leases amounted to $6,500,000, $4,841,000, and
$3,946,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.


11. STOCK OPTIONS

The Company has a qualified stock option plan adopted in 1981, under which stock
options are granted to key employees; and a nonqualified plan under which
options are granted to certain key employees. Under the nonqualified plan,
options expire five to ten years from the date of grant. Under the qualified
plan, 806,000 shares of common stock were reserved. Qualified options are
granted at a price not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the
stock at the date of grant. Options granted are generally exercisable in
increments from one to six years after the date of grant and expire six years
after the date of grant.

Transactions and other information relating to stock options are summarized as
follows:





                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


As of December 31, 1995, there are 125,000 options exercisable at prices from
$9.47 to $47.25 per share. For the year ended December 31, 1995, shares obtained
through exercise of options had a cumulative average market value of $6,843,000
at the date of exercise.


12. COMMON STOCK

Changes in common stock are summarized as follows (amount in thousands, except
share amounts):




13. RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for eligible
employees. Plan benefits are based on years of service and employees'
compensation levels. Benefits vest under the plan upon completion of five years
of service. Plan assets consist principally of corporate equity and debt
securities, government fixed income securities, and cash investments.

The components of the net pension cost for the years ended December 31, 1995 and
1994, are as follows (in thousands):





                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Primary actuarial assumptions used in determining the net pension cost are as
follows:



The funded status of the plan as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, is as follows
(in thousands):




In addition to the Company's defined benefit pension plan, the Company sponsors
a defined benefit health care plan that provides postretirement medical benefits
to full-time employees hired before January 1, 1993, who meet minimum age and
service requirements. The plan is contributory, with retiree contributions
adjusted annually, and contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles
and coinsurance. Plan coverage is provided by self-funding or health maintenance
organizations (HMOs) options. The accounting for the plan anticipates future
cost-sharing changes to the written plan, including the Company's expressed
intent to increase the retiree contribution rate annually from 30 percent and 40
percent in 1993 for normal and early retirees, respectively, to 50 percent for
both in 1996. The Company's retiree premium contribution rate is frozen at 50
percent of 1996 dollar amounts. The Company's policy is to fund the cost of
medical benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management.

The Company adopted Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions, as of January 1, 1993.  The cumulative effect of
this adoption was an after-tax decrease in net income of $5,760,000, as reported
in 1993.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The following table presents the plan's funded status reconciled with amounts
recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 1995 and
1994, as follows (in thousands):



Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1995 and 1994 includes the
following components ( in thousands):



For measurement purposes, an annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) of 6.5 percent and 5.0
percent were assumed for the self-funded and HMOs options, respectively, for
1995. The health care cost trend rate assumption does not have a significant
effect on amounts reported because the Company has capped its retiree premium
contribution rates.

The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 7.0 and 8.75 percent, respectively, at
December 31, 1995 and 1994.

The Company has an Employee Stock Savings Plan and an Employee Investment
Savings Plan (formerly known as the Salary Reduction Arrangement Plan)
(PAYSHELTER). Under PAYSHELTER, employees select from a nontax-deferred or
tax-deferred plan and four investment alternatives. Employees can contribute
from 1 to 15 percent of compensation, which is matched 50 percent by the Company
for contributions up to 5 percent and 25 percent for contributions greater than
5 percent up to 10 percent. Contributions to the plans amounted to $1,404,000,
$1,319,000, and $1,176,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and
1993, respectively.

The Company has an employee profit-sharing plan. Contributions to the plan are
determined per a formula based on the Company's annual return on equity
(required minimum return of 14 percent). Accrued contributions to the plan
amounted to $2,022,000, $1,096,000, and $948,000 for the years ended December
31, 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


14. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  (UNAUDITED)

Financial information by quarter for the three years ended December 31, 1995 is
as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):




15. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Credit risk represents the accounting loss that would be recognized at the
reporting date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted.
Concentration of credit risk (whether on or off balance sheet) that arise from
financial instruments exists for groups of customers or counterparties when they
have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet
contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other
conditions. The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual
customer or counterparty.

Most of the Company's business activity is with customers located within the
states of Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. The commercial loan portfolio is well
diversified, consisting of more than 17 industry classifications groupings. As
of December 31, 1995, the larger concentrations of risk in the commercial loan
and leasing portfolio are represented by the manufacturing, real estate,
business service, and retail industry groupings, which each comprise
approximately 15 percent of the portfolio. The Company has minimal credit
exposure from lending transactions with highly leveraged entities and has no
foreign loans.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


16.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Carrying value and estimated fair value of principal financial instruments as of
December 31, 1995 are summarized as follows (in thousands):



Financial assets and financial liabilities other than investment securities of
the Company are not traded in active markets. The above estimates of fair value
require subjective judgments, and are approximate. Changes in the following
methodologies and assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.

FINANCIAL ASSETS - The estimated fair value approximates the carrying value of
cash and due from banks and money market investments. For securities, the fair
value is based on quoted market prices where available. If quoted market prices
are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable
instruments or using a discounted cash flow model based on established market
rates. The fair value of fixed-rate loans is estimated by discounting future
cash flows using the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) yield curve adjusted
by a factor which reflects the credit and interest rate risk inherent in the
loan. Variable-rate loans reprice with changes in market rates. As such their
carrying amounts are deemed to approximate fair value. The fair value of the
allowance for loan losses of $67,555,000 is the present value of estimated net
charge-offs.

FINANCIAL LIABILITIES - The estimated fair value of demand and savings deposits,
securities sold not yet purchased, and federal funds purchased and security
repurchase agreements approximates the carrying value. The fair value of time
and foreign deposits is estimated by discounting future cash flows using the
LIBOR yield curve. Substantially all FHLB advances reprice with changes in
market interest rates or have short terms to maturity. The carrying value of
such indebtedness is deemed to approximate market value. Other borrowings are
not significant. The estimated fair value of the subordinated notes is based on
a quoted market price. The remaining long-term debt is not significant.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - The carrying and fair values of
off-balance sheet financial instruments represented by interest rate exchange
contracts (swaps) and caps as of December 31, 1995 is as follows (in thousands):



The fair value of the swaps and caps reflects the estimated amounts that the
Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date
based upon pricing or valuation models applied to current market information,
thereby taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses of open
contracts.

The fair value of commitments to extend credit and letters of credit, based on
fees currently charged for similar commitments, is not significant. See note 10
to the consolidated financial statements.


17. DIVIDEND RESTRICTION AND CONDENSED PARENT-ONLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Dividends declared by the Company's banking subsidiaries in any calendar year
may not, without the approval of the appropriate federal regulator, exceed their
net earnings for that year combined with their retained net earnings for the
preceding two years. At December 31, 1995, the Company's subsidiaries had
approximately $130.1 million available for the payment of dividends under the
foregoing restrictions. In addition, the banking subsidiaries must meet various
requirements and restrictions under the laws of the United States and state
laws, including requirements to maintain cash reserves against deposits and
limitations on loans and investments with affiliated companies. During 1995,
cash reserve balances held with the Federal Reserve banks averaged approximately
$54.9 million.


                    Condensed financial information of Zions
                     Bancorporation (parent only) follows:

                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                            Condensed Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1995 and 1994

                                 (In thousands)





                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                         Condensed Statements of Income

                 Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993

                                 (In thousands)






                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows

                 Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993

                                 (In thousands)





The parent company paid interest of $6,180,000, $7,245,000, and $8,577,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.



                              ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                   Condensed Statements of Retained Earnings

                 Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993

                                 (In thousands)






The selected quarterly financial data information required by this item appears
on pages 24 and 63 under the caption "QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(UNAUDITED)."

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item, to the extent not included under the
caption "Executive officers of the registrant" in Part I of this report, will
appear on pages 2 through 6 of the definitive Proxy Statement. Information
relating to the directors and executive officers on pages 2 through 6, and
information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K as set forth beginning in the
last paragraph on page 7 of the definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1996
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 26, 1996, is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item appearing on pages 8 through 19 of the
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held April 26, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item appearing on pages 6 and 7 of the
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held April 26, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item appearing on page 20 of the definitive
Proxy Statement relating to the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 26, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  The following documents are part of this report and appear on the pages
indicated:



       (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

           Schedules are omitted because the information is either not required,
           not applicable, or is included in Part II, Items 6-8 of this report.



       (3) Exhibits:

           The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages 73 and 74 of this
           report are filed or are incorporated herein by reference.

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended December
       31, 1995.

For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form
S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1993, the undersigned
Registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be incorporated
by reference into Registrant's Registration Statements on Form S-8 Nos. 33-58845
(filed on April 26, 1995) and 33-58855 (filed on April 26, 1995).

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of
1933 may be permitted to directors, officers, and controlling persons of the
Registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the Registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
Registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer, or controlling
person of the Registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit, or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer, or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the Registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
be governed by the final adjudication of such issue.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

March 8, 1996                               ZIONS BANCORPORATION

                                   By       /s/ Harris H. Simmons
                                     -------------------------------------
                                       HARRIS H. SIMMONS, President and
                                           Chief Executive Officer



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.

                                 March 8, 1996





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                    FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                    (Pursuant to Item 601 of Regulations S-K)













                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
              FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT ON FORM 10-K (continued)

                    (Pursuant to Item 601 of Regulations S-K)



*  incorporated by reference.


