
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                                ---------------
 
(MARK ONE)
 

 
                         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
                                  --------- TO
                                   ---------
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-6049
                            ------------------------
 
                           DAYTON HUDSON CORPORATION
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
        Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 612/370-6948
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.                        Yes _X_ No ____
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/
 
    Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant on March 21, 1997 was $9,811,287,151.97, based on the closing price
of $42.625 per share of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange--Composite Index and $1,428.75 per share of Series B ESOP Convertible
Preferred Stock as determined by Duff & Phelps. (Excluded from this figure is
the voting stock held by Registrant's Directors and Executive Officers.)
 
    Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of Registrant's classes of
common stock, as of the latest practicable date. March 21, 1997: 217,555,475
shares of common stock, par value $.3333.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    1.  Portions of Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated into Parts I and II.
 
    2.  Portions of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated April 14, 1997 are
incorporated into Part III.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.
 
    The first paragraph of Fourth Quarter Results, Page 18; Analysis of
Financial Condition, Page 19; Performance Objectives, Page 20; Internal Credit,
Page 21; Business Segment Comparisons, excluding years 1991-1993, Page 23; first
textual paragraph of Summary of Accounting Policies--Organization, Page 24;
Quarterly Results, Page 33 and the information relating to store locations on
Page 14 of Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated
herein by reference. Registrant was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.
 
    Leases, Page 27 and the list of store locations on Page 14 of Registrant's
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
    Commitments and Contingencies, Page 27 of Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS.
 
    Not Applicable.
 

ITEM X.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
    The executive officers of the Registrant as of April 1, 1997 and their
positions and ages, are as follows:
 

 
    Each officer is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors. There is no family relationship between any of the officers named nor
is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was
selected as an officer. The period of service of each officer in the positions
listed and other business experience as of April 1, 1997 is set forth below.
 
    ROBERT J. ULRICH Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of
the Executive Committee and Director of Registrant since 1994. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Target since 1987.
 
    KENNETH B. WOODROW President of Target since 1994, Vice Chairman of Target
from 1993 to 1994 and Executive Vice President of Target from 1989 to 1993.
 

    LARRY V. GILPIN Executive Vice President of Target since 1995 and Senior
Vice President of Target from 1981 to 1995.
 
    ROBERT G. MCMAHON Senior Vice President of Target since 1991 and Vice
President of Target from 1990 to 1991.
 
    JOHN E. PELLEGRENE Executive Vice President of Target since 1995 and Senior
Vice President of Target from 1988 to 1995.
 
    GREGG W. STEINHAFEL Executive Vice President of Target since 1994 and Senior
Vice President and General Merchandise Manager of Target from 1987 to 1994.
 
    BART BUTZER President of Mervyn's since March 1997 and Regional Senior Vice
President of Target from 1991 to 1997.
 
    SHANNON M. BUSCHO Executive Vice President, Stores of Mervyn's since
December 1996 and Senior Vice President, Stores of Mervyn's from January 1996 to
December 1996. She has held various management positions at Mervyn's for over
five years and was first elected a Vice President in 1994.
 
    LINDA L. AHLERS President of the Department Store Division since February
1996 and Executive Vice President, Merchandising of the Department Store
Division from August 1995 to February 1996. Senior Vice President of Target from
1989 to 1995.
 
    JAMES T. HALE Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of
Registrant since 1981.
 
    DOUGLAS A. SCOVANNER Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Registrant since 1994. Treasurer of Registrant in 1994. Senior Vice President,
Finance of Fleming Companies, Inc. (a food wholesaler) from 1992 to 1994. Vice
President and Treasurer of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (a soft drink bottler)
from 1986 to 1992.
 
    VIVIAN M. STEPHENSON Senior Vice President of Registrant since 1995. Senior
Vice President, MIS of Mervyn's from 1994 to 1995 and Vice President, MIS of
Mervyn's from 1990 to 1994.
 
    GERALD L. STORCH Senior Vice President of Registrant since 1993. Principal
with McKinsey & Company (a consulting firm) from 1982 to 1993.
 
    EDWIN H. WINGATE Senior Vice President of Registrant since 1980.
 
    JOANN BOGDAN Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Registrant since
1993. Assistant Controller of Registrant from 1988 to 1993.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
  MATTERS.
 
    Dividends Declared Per Share and Common Stock price, Page 33 of Registrant's
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
    The Data on years 1992-1996 in the Summary Financial and Operating Data
(excluding 1991 and Other Data), Page 35; Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Pages 23, 24, 25, 27, 29 and 31-33 (excluding years 1991-1993 on
page 23) and the Report of Independent Auditors, Page 34 of Registrant's 1996
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.
 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS.
 
    Management's Discussion and Analysis, Pages 15-21 and the second textual
paragraph of Post-retirement Health Care Benefits, Page 32 of Registrant's 1996
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
    Pages 23-33 and 35 (excluding years 1991-1993 on Page 23 and 1991 and Other
Data in the Summary Financial and Operating Data on Page 35) and the Report of
Independent Auditors, Page 34 of Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
    Not Applicable
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
    Election of Directors, Pages 1-6 of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated April
14, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference. See also Item X of Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
    Executive Compensation, Pages 7-12, Report of the Compensation Committee on
Executive Compensation, pages 13-17 and Director Compensation, Pages 18-19 of
Registrant's Proxy Statement dated April 14, 1997, are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
    Outstanding Shares and Voting Rights, Pages 27-28 of Registrant's Proxy
Statement dated April 14, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
    Not Applicable.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
a)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
 
    Consolidated Results of Operations for the Years Ended February 1, 1997,
    February 3, 1996 and January 28, 1995.
 
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at February 1, 1997 and
    February 3, 1996.
 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended February 1, 1997,
    February 3, 1996 and January 28, 1995.
 
    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Investment for the Years Ended
    February 1, 1997, February 3, 1996 and January 28, 1995.
 
    Information which is an integral part of the financial statements: Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements on Pages 23, 24, 25, 27, 29 and 31-33
    (excluding years 1991-1993 on Page 23) and the Report of Independent
    Auditors on Page 34 in Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.
 

    The Registrant, through its special purpose subsidiary, Dayton Hudson
Receivables Corporation ("DHRC") entered into a securitization transaction under
which it transfers, on an ongoing basis, substantially all of its credit card
receivables to a trust. Separate financial statements are filed for DHRC in its
separate Annual Reports on Form 10-K.
 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE:
 
    For the Years Ended February 1, 1997, February 3, 1996 and January 28, 1995.
 
       II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.
 
b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    None
 
c) EXHIBITS
 

 
- ------------------------
 
- -Registered Trademark-EVA is a registered trademark.
 


 
    Copies of Exhibits (10)A.-(10)D., (10)F., (10)K., (10)L., (21) and (99)(I)
will be furnished upon written request and payment of Registrant's reasonable
expenses in furnishing the exhibits.
 
- ------------------------
 
(a) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Registrant's Proxy Statement dated
    April 19, 1995.
 
(b) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to Registrant's Proxy Statement dated
    April 19, 1995.
 
(c) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)C. to Registrant's Form 10-K Report
    for the year ended January 29, 1994.
 
(d) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)D. to Registrant's Form 10-K Report
    for the year ended January 30, 1993 (the "1992 10-K").
 
(e) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit(10)B. to Registrant's Form 10-Q Report
    for the quarter ended October 29, 1994.
 
(f) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit(10)A. to Registrant's 1992 10-K.
 
(g) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit(10)B. to Registrant's 1992 10-K.
 
(h) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Proxy Statement dated April 14,
    1997 (only those portions specifically incorporated by reference shall be
    deemed filed with the Commission).
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 
    Douglas A. Scovanner, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this
document pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by the Directors named,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on behalf of such Directors,
all in the capacities and on the date stated, such persons being all of the
Directors of the Registrant.
 

 

                   DAYTON HUDSON CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                        FISCAL YEARS 1996, 1995 AND 1994
                             (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
(1) Accounts determined to be uncollectible are charged against reserve, net of
    collections on accounts previously charged against reserve.

