
10-K405
NUCOR CORPORATION 10-K405




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For fiscal year ended December 31, 1996            Commission file number 1-4119


                                NUCOR CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


               Delaware                                       13-1860817
      (State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. employer
       incorporation or organization)                      identification no.)

2100 Rexford Road, Charlotte, North Carolina                    28211
  (Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip code)


Registrant's telephone number, including area code:         (704)  366-7000


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                          Name of each exchange
           Title of each class                             on which registered
   Common stock, par value $.40 per share                New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          None

                                                                            
Indication by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding twelve months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days: Yes X No

Indication by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K: X

Aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was $4,171,319,584
at February 28, 1997.

87,848,847 shares of common stock were outstanding at February 28, 1997.

Documents incorporated by reference include: Portions of 1996 annual report
(Parts I, II, III and IV), and proxy statement for 1997 annual stockholders'
meeting (Part III).



                                      - 1 -







                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

   Nucor Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1958.

   The business of Nucor Corporation and its subsidiaries is, and for a number
of years has been, the manufacture and sale of steel products, which accounted
for all of sales and earnings in 1996, 1995 and 1994.

   Principal steel products are hot rolled steel (angles, rounds, flats,
channels, sheet, wide-flange beams, pilings, billets, blooms and beam blanks),
cold rolled steel, cold finished steel, steel joists and joist girders, steel
deck, steel fasteners and steel grinding balls. Hot rolled steel is manufactured
principally from scrap, utilizing electric furnaces, continuous casting and
automated rolling mills. Cold rolled steel, cold finished steel, steel joists
and joist girders, steel fasteners and steel grinding balls are manufactured by
further processing of hot rolled steel. Steel deck is manufactured from cold
rolled steel.

   Hot rolled steel, cold rolled steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners,
and steel grinding balls are manufactured in standard sizes and inventories are
maintained. In 1996, approximately 85% of hot and cold rolled steel production
was sold to non-affiliated customers; the remainder was used in the manufacture
of other steel products as described above. Hot rolled steel, cold rolled steel
and cold finished steel are sold nationally, primarily to steel service centers,
fabricators and manufacturers. Steel fasteners are sold to distributors and
manufacturers, and steel grinding balls are sold primarily to the mining
industry.

   Steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck are sold to general
contractors and fabricators throughout the United States. Substantially all work
is to order and no unsold inventories of finished products are maintained. All
sales contracts are firm-fixed-price contracts and are normally competitively
bid against other suppliers.

   The primary raw material is ferrous scrap, which is acquired from numerous
sources throughout the country. The operating facilities are large consumers of
electricity and gas. Supplies of raw materials and energy have been, and are
expected to be, adequate to operate the facilities.

   Steel products are marketed principally through in-house sales forces. The
principal competitive factors are price and service. Considerable competition
exists from numerous domestic manufacturers and foreign imports. Nucor believes
that the most significant factor with respect to its competitive position is its
low cost and efficiency of its production processes. The markets which Nucor
serves are tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by
changes in economic conditions.

   Nucor's backlog of orders was about $743,000,000 at December 31, 1996, and
about $610,000,000 at December 31, 1995 (all of which are normally filled within
one year).

   Nucor is highly decentralized and has less than 25 employees in its executive
offices. All of Nucor's 6,600 employees are engaged in its steel products
business.

   Additional information on Nucor's business is incorporated by reference to
Nucor's 1996 annual report, pages 5, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.



                                      - 2-







Item 2.  Properties


   Principal operating facilities are as follows:




   Additional operating facilities are located in Fort Payne, Alabama, Conway,
Arkansas, Saint Joe and Waterloo, Indiana, Wilson, North Carolina, and Swansea,
South Carolina, all engaged in the manufacture of steel products. During 1996,
the average utilization rate of all operating facilities was approximately 90%
of production capacity.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   Involvement in various judicial and administrative proceedings, as both
plaintiff and defendant, is considered immaterial, and includes matters relating
to contracts, torts, environment, taxes, and insurance.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   None during quarter ended December 31, 1996.


                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
         Financial Condition and Results of Operations

   Incorporated by reference to Nucor Corporation's 1996 annual report, pages 19
and 13, 13, and 12, respectively.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   Incorporated by reference to Nucor Corporation's 1996 annual report, pages 14
to 18. The Report and Consent of Independent Accountants is on Page 6.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosures

   None.


                                      - 3 -







                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers
Item 11.  Executive Compensation
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   Incorporated by reference to Nucor Corporation's proxy statement for 1997
annual stockholders' meeting, and page 19 of Nucor Corporation's 1996 Annual
Report.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   None.

                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K



   Financial Statement Schedules:

        All schedules are omitted because they are not required, not applicable,
     or the information is furnished in the consolidated financial statements or
     notes.

   Exhibits:
      3    - Restated Certificate of incorporation (incorporated by
             reference to Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1990)
      3(i) - Certificate of amendment dated May 14, 1992, to Restated
             Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to
             Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1992)
      3(ii)- By-Laws as amended January 1, 1996
     11    - Computation of net earnings per share
     13    - 1996 annual report (portions incorporated by reference)
     21    - Subsidiaries
     22    - Proxy statement for 1997 annual stockholders' meeting
     24    - Powers of attorney (incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
                   for years ended December 31, 1990 and December 31, 1995)
     27    - Financial data schedule

   Reports on Form 8-K:

     None filed during the quarter ended December 31, 1996.





                                      - 4 -







                                   SIGNATURES


    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed (1) by the Registrant, and (2) on behalf of the
Registrant, by its principal executive, financial and accounting officers, and
its directors.

   NUCOR CORPORATION


   By  F. KENNETH IVERSON                     *          H. DAVID AYCOCK
      F. Kenneth Iverson                      H. David Aycock
      Chairman                                Director


       F. KENNETH IVERSON                     *        JAMES W. CUNNINGHAM
   F. Kenneth Iverson                         James W. Cunningham
   Chairman and Director                                          Director


       JOHN D. CORRENTI                       *          JAMES D. HLAVACEK
   John D. Correnti                           James D. Hlavacek
   Vice Chairman, President,                  Director
   Chief Executive Officer and Director


       SAMUEL SIEGEL                            *By
   Samuel Siegel                                Samuel Siegel
   Vice Chairman,                               Attorney-in-fact
   Chief Financial Officer,
   Treasurer, Secretary and Director


        TERRY S. LISENBY
   Terry S. Lisenby
   Vice President and
   Corporate Controller




Dated:  March 26, 1997



                                      - 5 -





COOPERS & LYBRAND, L.L.P.
Nationsbank Corporate Center
100 North Tryon Street
Suite 3400
Charlotte, North Carolina



                  Report and Consent of Independent Accountants


Stockholders and Board of Directors
Nucor Corporation
Charlotte, North Carolina

  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Nucor Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1996, which financial statements are included
on pages 14 through 18 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders of Nucor
Corporation and incorporated by reference herein. These financial statements are
the responsibility of Nucor's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Nucor Corporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements of
Nucor Corporation on Form S-8, Numbers 2-84117 (including 2-50058), 2-51735,
33-27120 (including 2-55941 and 2-69914), and 33-56649, and Form S-3, Number
33-47313, of this report on our audits of the consolidated financial statements
of Nucor Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994.


COOPERS & LYBRAND

Charlotte, North Carolina
February 14, 1997








                                       -6-



