
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
                                   FORM 10-K                            1998


                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549
     (Mark One)
           [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1998
                                      OR
           [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the transition period from                    to 
                                    ------------------    ------------------

                         Commission file number 1-5153

                                USX CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                               25-0996816
     (State of Incorporation)            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
  
                 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA  15219-4776
                   (Address of principal executive offices)
                            Tel. No. (412) 433-1121
         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:*

                                  Title of Each Class


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days.  Yes    X     No
                                                 --------    ----------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K ((S)229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X] 

Aggregate market value of Common Stock held by non-affiliates as of January 31,
1999: $9.2 billion.  The amount shown is based on the closing prices of the
registrant's Common Stocks on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on that
date.  Shares of Common Stock held by executive officers and directors of the
registrant are not included in the computation.  However, the registrant has
made no determination that such individuals are "affiliates" within the meaning
of Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933.

There were 308,467,709 shares of USX-Marathon Group Common Stock and 88,336,439
shares of USX-U. S. Steel Group Common Stock outstanding as of January 31, 1999.

Documents Incorporated By Reference:
     Proxy Statement dated March 8, 1999 is incorporated in Part III.
     Proxy Statement dated  March 9, 1998 is incorporated in Part IV.

- --------------------
   *  These securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  In addition,
      the Common Stocks are traded on The Chicago Stock Exchange and the
      Pacific Exchange.
  **  Issued by USX Capital LLC.
 ***  Issued by USX Capital Trust I
****  Obligations of Marathon Oil Company, USX Capital LLC and USX Capital Trust
      I, all wholly owned subsidiaries of the registrant, have been guaranteed
      by the registrant.

 



 
NOTE ON PRESENTATION

     USX Corporation ("USX" or the "Corporation") is a diversified company which
is principally engaged in the energy business through its Marathon Group and in
the steel business through its U. S. Steel Group. USX has two classes of common
stock, USX-Marathon Group Common Stock ("Marathon Stock") and USX-U. S. Steel
Group Common Stock ("Steel Stock"). Each class of Common Stock is intended to
provide stockholders of that class with a separate security reflecting the
performance of the related group.

     Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold Delhi Gas Pipeline Corporation and
other subsidiaries of USX that comprised all of the USX-Delhi Group ("Delhi
Companies"). On January 26, 1998, USX used the $195 million net proceeds from
the sale to redeem all of the 9.45 million outstanding shares of USX-Delhi Group
Common Stock.

     USX continues to include consolidated financial information in its periodic
reports required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in its annual
shareholder reports and in other financial communications. The consolidated
financial statements are supplemented with separate financial statements of the
Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group, together with the related Management's
Discussion and Analyses, descriptions of business and other financial and
business information to the extent such information is required to be presented
in the report being filed. The financial information of the Marathon Group and
U. S. Steel Group and certain financial information relating to the Delhi
Companies, taken together, includes all accounts which comprise the
corresponding consolidated financial information of USX.

     For consolidated financial reporting purposes, USX consists of the Marathon
Group and the U. S. Steel Group. The attribution of assets, liabilities
(including contingent liabilities) and stockholders' equity between the Marathon
Group and the U. S. Steel Group for the purpose of preparing their respective
financial statements does not affect legal title to such assets and
responsibility for such liabilities. Holders of Marathon Stock and Steel Stock
are holders of common stock of USX and continue to be subject to all of the
risks associated with an investment in USX and all of its businesses and
liabilities. Financial impacts arising from either of the Groups that affect the
overall cost of USX's capital could affect the results of operations and
financial condition of both groups. In addition, net losses of any Group, as
well as dividends and distributions on any class of USX common stock or series
of preferred stock and repurchases of any class of USX common stock or series of
preferred stock at prices in excess of par or stated value, will reduce the
funds of USX legally available for payment of dividends on both classes of USX
common stock. Accordingly, the USX consolidated financial information should be
read in connection with the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group financial
information.

     For information regarding accounting matters and policies affecting the
Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group financial statements, see "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Financial Statements - 1. Basis of
Presentation and - 4. Corporate Activities" for each respective group. For
information regarding dividend limitations and dividend policies affecting
holders of Marathon Stock and Steel Stock, see "Market for Registrant's Common
Equity and Related Stockholder Matters."

     For a Glossary of Certain Defined Terms used in this document, see page 58.

Forward-Looking Statements

     Certain sections of USX's Form 10-K, particularly Item 1. Business, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk, include forward-looking statements concerning
trends or events potentially affecting USX. These statements typically contain
words such as "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "expects" or similar words
indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor"
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these
statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors,
though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to
differ materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements. For
additional factors affecting the businesses of USX, see Supplementary Data -
Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements.


 
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

USX CORPORATION

     USX Corporation was incorporated in 1901 and is a Delaware corporation.
Executive offices are located at 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219-4776.
The terms "USX" and "Corporation" when used herein refer to USX Corporation or
USX Corporation and its subsidiaries, as required by the context.

Groups

     For consolidated reporting purposes, USX consists of the Marathon Group and
the U. S. Steel Group. Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold Delhi Gas Pipeline
Corporation and other subsidiaries of USX that comprised all of the Delhi Group.
See "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to USX Consolidated
Financial Statements - 5. Discontinued Operations" on page U-11. The businesses
of the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group, are as follows:

   .  The Marathon Group includes Marathon Oil Company ("Marathon") and certain
      other subsidiaries of USX, which are engaged in worldwide exploration and
      production of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and
      transportation of petroleum products primarily through Marathon Ashland
      Petroleum LLC ("MAP"), owned 62 percent by Marathon; and other energy
      related businesses. Marathon Group revenues as a percentage of total USX
      consolidated revenues were 78% in 1998, 69% in 1997 and 71% in 1996.

   .  The U. S. Steel Group includes U. S. Steel, which is engaged in the
      production and sale of steel mill products, coke and taconite pellets; the
      management of mineral resources; domestic coal mining; real estate
      development; and engineering and consulting services. Certain business
      activities are conducted through joint ventures and partially-owned
      companies, such as USS/Kobe Steel Company, USS-POSCO Industries, PRO-TEC
      Coating Company, Transtar, Inc., Clairton 1314B Partnership, VSZ U. S.
      Steel, s. r.o. and RTI International Metals, Inc. U. S. Steel Group
      revenues as a percentage of total USX consolidated revenues were 22% in
      1998, 31% in 1997 and 29% in 1996.



 
A three-year summary of financial highlights for the groups is provided below.


- -----------
(a)  Consists of sales, dividend and affiliate income, gain on ownership change
     in MAP, net gains on disposal of assets, gain on affiliate stock offering
     and other income.
(b)  Excludes amounts for the companies comprising the Delhi Group of USX (sold
     in 1997; see footnote (d) below), which have been reclassified as
     discontinued operations.
(c)  Includes the following favorable (unfavorable) amounts: adjustments to the
     inventory market valuation reserve for the Marathon Group of $(267)
     million, $(284) million and $209 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
     respectively; and gain on ownership change in MAP of $245 million in 1998.
(d)  Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold Delhi Gas Pipeline Corporation and
     other subsidiaries of USX that comprised all of the Delhi Group.

     For additional financial information about the Groups, see "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to USX Consolidated Financial
Statements - 10. Group and Segment Information" on page U-13.

     The total number of active USX Headquarters employees not assigned to a
specific group at year-end 1998 was 248.

     A narrative description of the primary businesses of the Marathon Group and
the U. S. Steel Group is provided below.


 
MARATHON GROUP

     The Marathon Group is comprised of Marathon Oil Company and certain other
subsidiaries of USX which are engaged in worldwide exploration and production of
crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of
petroleum products primarily through Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"),
owned 62% by Marathon Oil Company; and other energy related businesses.
Marathon Group revenues as a percentage of total USX consolidated revenues were
78% in 1998, 69% in 1997 and 71% in 1996.

     The following table summarizes Marathon Group revenues for each of the last
three years:


- -----------
(a)  Amounts in 1998 include 100% of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP") and
     are not comparable to prior periods.
(b)  See Note 5 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements for a discussion of
     the gain on ownership change in MAP.
(c)  Includes dividend and affiliate income, net gains on disposal of assets and
     other income.
(d)  Matching crude oil and refined products buy/sell transactions settled in
     cash.
(e)  Consumer excise taxes on petroleum products and merchandise.
(f)  Included in both revenues and costs and expenses, resulting in no effect on
     income.

     For additional financial information about USX's operating segments, see
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to USX Consolidated
Financial Statements - 10, Group and Segment Information" on page U-13.

                               RECENT DEVELOPMENT

     MAP announced on March 1, 1999, that it signed a memorandum of
understanding to sell Scurlock Permian LLC, its crude oil gathering business, to
Plains All American Pipeline, L.P.  Scurlock Permian LLC is actively engaged in
purchasing, selling and trading crude oil, principally at Midland, Texas;
Cushing, Oklahoma; and St. James, Louisiana, three of the major distribution
points for U.S. crude oil, and at major trading and distribution hubs in western
Canada.

Exploration and Production

Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Development

     Marathon is currently conducting exploration and development activities in
13 countries.  Principal exploration activities are in the United States, the
United Kingdom, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Gabon, Ireland, the


 
Netherlands and Tunisia.  Principal development activities are in the United
States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Egypt, Gabon and Russia.  Marathon is also
pursuing opportunities in Angola and other West Africa countries, South America,
the Middle East and around the Black Sea.

     During 1998, exploration activities resulted in discoveries in the United
States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Egypt, Gabon and the Netherlands.

     The following table sets forth, by geographic area, the number of net
productive and dry development and exploratory wells completed in each of the
last three years (references to "net" wells or production indicate Marathon's
ownership interest or share as the context requires):


- -----------
(a)  Includes the number of wells completed during the year regardless of the
     year in which drilling was initiated.  A dry well is a well found to be
     incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify
     completion. A productive well is a well that is not a dry well.
(b)  Indicates wells drilled in the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir.
(c)  Includes Marathon's equity interest in CLAM.

United States

     In the United States during 1998, Marathon drilled 45 gross (32 net)
wildcat and delineation ("exploratory") wells of which 26 gross (19 net) wells
encountered hydrocarbons.  Of these 26 wells, 5 gross (3 net) wells were
temporarily suspended, and will be reported in the Net Productive and Dry Wells
Completed table when


 
completed.  Principal domestic exploratory and development activities were in
the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the states of Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico.

     Exploration expenditures during the three-year period ended December 31,
1998, totaled $521 million in the United States, of which $217 million was
incurred in 1998.  Development expenditures during the three-year period ended
December 31, 1998, totaled $1,176 million in the United States, of which $431
million was incurred in 1998.

     The following is a summary of recent, significant exploration and
development activity in the United States including discussion, as deemed
appropriate, of completed wells, drilling wells and wells under evaluation.

     Gulf of Mexico - Marathon continues to consider the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico ("Gulf") as a core area for domestic growth in oil and gas production and
has committed significant resources to exploit its opportunities.

     Four of the five wells of the Troika subsea development project in the
Green Canyon Block 244 field, located in the central Gulf were completed and
tied back to a co-venturer's platform at year-end 1998.  The fifth well is
scheduled for completion and tie-back in late first quarter 1999. The Troika
project, consisting of four blocks (Green Canyon Blocks 200, 201, 244 and 245),
has recoverable reserves estimated at over 200 million gross barrels of oil
equivalent ("BOE").  Marathon holds a 33.3% working interest in this
development.

     Ewing Bank Block 963 ("Arnold") and 917 ("Oyster") developments were tied
back subsea to the Marathon-operated Ewing Bank 873 platform during the second
quarter of 1998.  Recoverable reserves are estimated at 25 million gross BOE for
Arnold and 10 million gross BOE for Oyster.  Marathon owns a working interest of
62.5% in Arnold and 66.7% in Oyster.

     Progress continues on development of the Green Canyon Block 112/113
("Stellaria/Angus") project in the central Gulf.  After drilling the initial
discovery well on Green Canyon Block 112 in mid-1997, Marathon confirmed the
discovery with a successful delineation well on Green Canyon Block 113 later
that year.  A three-well development completed subsea and tied back to a co-
venturer's platform is underway, with initial production targeted for mid-1999.
Marathon has a 33.3% working interest in the Stellaria/Angus project.

     The Viosca Knoll Block 786 ("Petronius") development in the deepwater Gulf,
was originally scheduled to begin production in the second quarter of 1999, but
the project was delayed when the last platform topsides module being lifted
during installation fell into the sea.  The lost module will have to be
replaced.  Third party insurance is expected to cover costs associated with the
module replacement and its installation on the platform.  First production is
now expected in the fourth quarter of 2000.  The Petronius project is estimated
to have recoverable reserves of 95 million gross BOE.  Marathon holds a 50%
working interest in this project.

     During 1998, Marathon participated in the Central and Western Gulf of
Mexico lease sales.  This effort added 26 blocks and 13 prospects to Marathon's
growing deepwater leasehold inventory.

     To support an expanding inventory of deepwater prospects, Marathon, in
1998, acquired one-third interest in a five-year contract for the Noble Amos
Runner, a drilling rig capable of drilling in water depths up to 6,000 feet.
Marathon also signed a five-year contract, convertible to a three-year
commitment, for the new build Sedco Cajun Express, capable of drilling in water
up to 8,500 feet.  These rigs become available in mid-1999 and mid-2000,
respectively, and sustain an on-going deepwater exploration program.

     Texas - In east Texas, Marathon is actively involved in a development
drilling program for gas reserves in the Austin Chalk area.  Marathon has
approximately 73,000 net acres under lease in this play.  A 12-well development
program, in which Marathon will have an average 87% working interest, is planned
for 1999.

     Oklahoma - In 1998, Marathon had a discovery in the Granite Wash formation
in western Oklahoma. Delineation wells and development are planned for 1999.
Marathon has a 100% working interest in this discovery well.


 
     With respect to the 1997 Arbuckle discovery in the Carter Knox field, a
confirmation well was completed in 1998.  A sour gas facility was built to treat
the Arbuckle gas and is currently processing about 20 million cubic feet per day
("mmcfd") from the discovery and confirmation wells.  The plant is capable of
treating 40 mmcfd and was designed for expansion as needed.  Marathon has a 100%
working interest in both wells and the gas treating facility.  A third well was
drilled to the Arbuckle formation but was not successful.  However, this well
was completed in alternate formations in early 1999.  Marathon has a 75.3%
working interest in this well.

     New Mexico - In 1998, Marathon drilled 31 successful wells in the Travis
Canyon and Indian Basin fields of southeast New Mexico.  Marathon has 3,000 net
acres under lease in the Travis Canyon field and in 1999, plans to drill 3
development wells and 3 delineation wells in Travis Canyon and 13 development
wells in Indian Basin.  Marathon's working interest averages 75% and 85% in
Travis Canyon and Indian Basin, respectively.

International

     Outside the United States during 1998, Marathon drilled 17 gross (9 net)
exploratory wells in 6 countries.  Of these 17 wells, 11 gross (5 net) wells
encountered hydrocarbons, of which 6 gross (3 net) wells were temporarily
suspended and will be reported in the Net Productive and Dry Wells Completed
table when completed.

     Marathon's expenditures for international oil and natural gas exploration
activities, including Marathon's 50% equity interest in CLAM Petroleum B.V.
("CLAM") and Marathon's 37.5% equity interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment
Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy"), during the three-year period ended December
31, 1998, totaled $285 million, of which $125 million was incurred in 1998.
Marathon's international development expenditures, including CLAM and Sakhalin
Energy, during the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, totaled $541
million, of which $256 million was incurred in 1998.

     The following is a summary of recent, significant exploration and
development activity outside the United States, including discussion, as deemed
appropriate, of completed wells, drilling wells and wells under evaluation.

     United Kingdom - Marathon is continuing its development of the Brae area in
the U.K. North Sea where it is the operator and owns a 41.6% revenue interest in
the South, Central and North Brae fields, a 38.5% revenue interest in the East
Brae field and a 28.1% revenue interest in the West Brae/Sedgwick joint
development project.  Marathon has interests in 39 blocks in the U.K. North Sea
and other offshore areas.

     With respect to the West Brae/Sedgwick joint development, the initial phase
of development was completed in 1998 and is comprised of four production wells
and a single water injection well.  Another production well is planned for 1999
which will produce additional reserves proved in 1998 through delineation
drilling in the northern portion of the field.  Gross reserves for the joint
project are estimated at approximately 55 million BOE.  The successful
development drilling program, combined with the delineation program, has
extended the potential from this development.

     In June 1997, Marathon announced the Dalmore oil discovery in the U.K.
North Sea on Block 16/6b.  The well was drilled to a depth of 7,150 feet and
encountered 107 feet of net oil pay.  Marathon is the operator and holds a 62.5%
working interest in the well.  This discovery is located 12 miles west of the
Brae A platform.  A delineation well was drilled in October 1997, approximately
one-half mile southwest of the discovery, but was unsuccessful.  During 1998,
additional acreage was obtained in this trend when two blocks were awarded to
the west and northwest of Dalmore.  In 1999, a second well is expected to be
drilled to further delineate the discovery.

     Canada - On August 11, 1998, Marathon acquired Tarragon Oil and Gas Limited
("Tarragon"), a Canadian oil and gas exploration and production company, which
was subsequently renamed Marathon Canada Limited ("MCL").  This acquisition
added approximately 290 million net BOE, or in excess of a 20% increase, to
Marathon's year-end proved reserves.  In addition, approximately two million net
acres of acquired undeveloped leasehold provides Marathon significant growth
opportunities in one of North America's most attractive gas basins.  MCL's 1999
capital spending plans on exploration and development activities reflect an
aggressive full-year program with significant drilling to exploit these new
assets.


 
     Egypt - In June 1998, Marathon announced a gas discovery on the onshore El
Manzala concession.  The Abu Monkar No. 1 well flowed at a maximum rate of 21.6
mmcfd.  The well has been suspended pending further appraisal work.  In October
and November 1998, a seismic program was completed to define additional
locations for possible future drilling.  In 1999, technical and economic
evaluations are expected to be completed.  Marathon is the operator and holds a
60% working interest in this concession.

     Gabon - In January 1998, oil production commenced from the Tchatamba Marin
field in the Kowe Permit, located 18 miles offshore Gabon.  Field reserves are
estimated to be approximately 30 million gross BOE.  Marathon is the operator of
this field.  Its working interest was proportionately reduced from 75% to 56.25%
in early 1998 after the Gabonese government exercised its right to obtain a 25%
interest in the field.

     The Tchatamba West discovery was drilled in early 1998, 4.5 miles northwest
of the Tchatamba Marin production facilities.  This field has possible reserves
of seven million gross BOE, and is being evaluated as a one-well development
tied back to the Tchatamba Marin facility.  The 1997 Tchatamba South discovery,
which tested at 8,165 barrels of oil per day, is being developed with a minimum
concept platform and will be tied back to the Tchatamba Marin facility.  The
Tchatamba South field was delineated during 1998, with the Tchatamba South Nos.
3 and 4 wells.  The No. 3 well was successful and will be utilized along with
the No. 1 well in the field development.  The No. 4 well was unsuccessful and
was abandoned.  The Tchatamba South field has estimated reserves of
approximately 30 million gross BOE and is expected to be producing in the third
quarter of 1999.

     In June 1998, Marathon and its partner announced an oil discovery on the
East Orovinyare prospect, four miles offshore Gabon.  The East Orovinyare No. 1
wildcat well was drilled in the Kowe Permit in 65 feet of water and encountered
an oil column in excess of 400 feet.  The first appraisal well, East Orovinyare
No. 2, was drilled and tested a combined daily flow rate of 2,460 barrels of 35-
degree API gravity of oil.  In 1999, Marathon plans to evaluate the reservoir to
formulate a field-wide development plan.

     Marathon is the operator of the Tchatamba West, Tchatamba South and East
Orovinyare fields with a 75% working interest in these fields.  Under the terms
of the Kowe Permit, the Gabonese government has the right to obtain a maximum
25% working interest in any development, which would proportionately reduce
Marathon's interest.

     The Akoumba Marin Permit lies in 2,000 to 6,000 feet of water.  Marathon
holds a 100% working interest in this concession.  The initial exploratory well
was drilled in early 1999 and did not encounter hydrocarbons.  Further
evaluation of remaining prospects is underway to determine if additional
drilling opportunities are warranted.  Under the terms of the Akoumba Marin
Permit, the Gabonese government has the right to obtain a maximum 10% working
interest in any development, which would reduce Marathon's interest.

     In 1998, Marathon expanded its opportunities in Gabon by acquiring an
interest in the Inguessi Permit, which is adjacent to the Kowe Permit.  Marathon
acquired over 300 square kilometers of three-dimensional ("3-D") seismic data as
part of an expenditure commitment to earn a 50% working interest in this
concession.  Under the terms of the Inguessi Permit, the Gabonese government has
the right to obtain a maximum 10% working interest in any development, which
would proportionately reduce Marathon's interest.

     Ireland - During 1997, Marathon drilled an exploratory well in the
Porcupine Basin off the west coast of Ireland.  Although hydrocarbons were
encountered, the well was plugged and abandoned. In 1998, Marathon's working
interest in the Porcupine Basin increased from 33.3% to 50% due to a co-
venturer's relinquishment of its interest.  Marathon continues to evaluate
future prospects, however, no drilling activities are presently planned for
1999.  Marathon is the operator of this license.

     Marathon continues to evaluate development options for the Southwest
Kinsale reservoir.  This reservoir is located on the west side of the Kinsale
Head field in the Celtic Sea and is estimated to contain approximately 36
billion cubic feet ("bcf") of recoverable gas.  A subsea development is planned,
with first production expected in fourth quarter 1999.  Marathon holds a 100%
working interest in this area.


 
     Tunisia - Marathon's 60% working interest in the 470,000-acre South Jenein
Permit in southern Tunisia was formally ratified by the government in 1996.  In
1998, Marathon acquired 523 kilometers of two-dimensional seismic data and
drilled an exploratory well (Jenein-1).  This well encountered hydrocarbons and
was suspended pending further evaluation.  Jenein-1 was the first of a two-well
exploration commitment for the permit.

     Netherlands - In 1998, Marathon, through its 50% equity interest in CLAM,
drilled three gross exploratory wells and six gross development wells in the
Netherlands North Sea.  A new CLAM discovery was made in 1998, the first outside
the joint development area.  This discovery is expected to be evaluated with a
delineation well planned in 1999.  A total of five development wells and two
exploratory wells are presently planned for 1999.  Also, in 1998, CLAM was
awarded two blocks in the Danish sector of the North Sea.  A 3-D seismic program
is presently planned for 1999.

     Independent from its interest in CLAM, in January 1999, Marathon was
awarded the A-15 block in the Netherlands North Sea.  Marathon holds a 40%
working interest in this block, which is operated by a co-venturer.

     Denmark - In June 1998, Marathon acquired one block in Denmark, a new
operating country for Marathon.  The geologic and field development knowledge
obtained from the Brae/Sedgwick area of the United Kingdom led to the
identification of the areas awarded to Marathon and its partners.  Further
evaluations, including a 3-D seismic program are scheduled in 1999.

     Russia - Marathon holds a 37.5% interest in Sakhalin Energy, an
incorporated joint venture company responsible for the overall management of the
Sakhalin II project.  This project includes development of the Piltun-
Astokhskoye ("P-A") oil field and the Lunskoye gas-condensate field, which are
located 8-12 miles offshore Sakhalin Island in the Russian Far East Region.  The
Russian State Reserves Committee has approved estimated combined reserves for
the P-A and Lunskoye fields of one billion gross barrels of liquid hydrocarbons
and 14 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.

     In 1997, a Development Plan for the P-A license area, Phase I: Astokh
Feature was approved.  Offshore drilling and production facilities for the
Astokh Feature were set in place on September 1, 1998.  Drilling of development
wells commenced in December of 1998.  First production from the Astokh Feature
is scheduled for mid-1999, with sales forecast to average 45,000 gross barrels
per day ("bpd") of oil annually as early as 2000.  This rate is based on six
months of offshore loading operations during the ice-free weather window at an
estimated daily rate of 90,000 gross barrels.  Marathon's equity share of
reserves from primary production in the Astokh Feature is 80 million barrels of
oil.

     The approved Development Plan also provides for further appraisal work for
the remainder of the P-A field.  An appraisal well was drilled during the summer
weather window in 1998 and the results are being evaluated.  Conceptual design
work for further development of the P-A field, including pressure maintenance
for the Astokh Feature, continues.  With respect to the Lunskoye field,
appraisal work and efforts to secure long term gas sales markets continue.
Commencement of gas production from the Lunskoye field, which will be contingent
upon the conclusion of a gas sales contract, is anticipated to occur in 2005 or
later.

     Late in 1997, the Sakhalin Energy consortium arranged a limited recourse
project financing facility of $348 million.  Sakhalin Energy borrowed the full
amount of this facility in 1998 to fund Phase I expenditures and to repay
amounts previously advanced to Sakhalin Energy by its shareholders.

     In the area of significant Russian legislation, the Russian Parliament
passed a Production Sharing Agreement ("PSA") Amendments Law and a PSA Enabling
Law, which brings other Russian legislation into conformance with the PSA Law.
These laws were signed by President Yeltsin and enacted in 1999.

     At December 31, 1998, Marathon's investment in the Sakhalin II project was
$275 million.

     The above discussions include forward-looking statements concerning various
projects, drilling plans, expected production and sales levels, reserves and
dates of initial production, which are based on a number of


 
assumptions, including (among others) prices, amount of capital available for
exploration and development, worldwide supply and demand for petroleum products,
regulatory constraints, reserve estimates, production decline rates of mature
fields, reserve replacement rates, drilling rig availability and other
geological, operating and economic considerations.  In addition, development of
new production properties in countries outside the United States may require
protracted negotiations with host governments and is frequently subject to
political considerations and tax regulations, which could adversely affect the
economics of projects.  To the extent these assumptions prove inaccurate and/or
negotiations and other considerations are not satisfactorily resolved, actual
results could be materially different than present expectations.

Reserves

     At December 31, 1998, the Marathon Group's net proved liquid hydrocarbon
and natural gas reserves, including equity affiliate interests, totaled
approximately 1.6 billion barrels on a BOE basis, of which 57% were located in
the United States. (Natural gas reserves are converted to barrels of oil
equivalent using a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet ("mcf") of
natural gas to one barrel of oil.)  On a BOE basis, Marathon replaced 242% of
its 1998 worldwide oil and gas production.  Including dispositions, Marathon
replaced 235% of worldwide oil and gas production.  Additions during 1998 were
primarily attributable to acquired reserves in Canada.


 
     The table below sets forth estimated quantities of net proved oil and gas
reserves at the end of each of the last three years.

Estimated Quantities of Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves at December 31


- -----------
(a)  Represents Marathon's equity interests in CLAM and Sakhalin Energy.
(b)  Represents Marathon's equity interests in CLAM.
(c)  Includes Canada for 1998.


     The above estimates, which are forward-looking statements, are based upon a
number of assumptions, including (among others) prices, presently known physical
data concerning size and character of the reservoirs, economic recoverability,
production experience and other operating considerations.  To the extent these
assumptions prove inaccurate, actual recoveries could be materially different
than current estimates.

     For additional details of estimated quantities of net proved oil and gas
reserves at the end of each of the last three years, see "Consolidated Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data - Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas
Producing Activities - Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves" on
page U-32.  Reports have been filed with the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE")
for the years 1997 and 1996 disclosing the year-end


 
estimated oil and gas reserves. A similar report will be filed for 1998.  The
year-end estimates reported to the DOE are the same as the estimates reported in
the USX Consolidated Supplementary Data.

Oil and Gas Acreage

     The following table sets forth, by geographic area, the developed and
undeveloped oil and gas acreage held as of December 31, 1998:

- -----------
(a)  Represents Marathon's equity interests in CLAM and Sakhalin Energy.
(b)  Includes Canada.
 
Oil and Natural Gas Production

     The following tables set forth daily average net production of liquid
hydrocarbons and natural gas for each of the last three years:


- -----------
(a)  Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
(b)  Amounts reflect production from leasehold and plant ownership, after
     royalties and interests of others.
(c)  Except for Canada and Gabon, amounts reflect equity tanker liftings, truck
     deliveries and direct deliveries of liquid hydrocarbons before royalties,
     if any. The amounts correspond with the basis for fiscal settlements with
     governments. Crude oil purchases, if any, from host governments are not
     included.
(d)  Amounts reflect sales of equity production, only. It excludes volumes
     purchased from third parties for resale of 23 mmcfd in 1998 and 32 mmcfd in
     1997 and 1996.
(e)  Amounts reflect production before royalties.
(f)  Represents Marathon's equity interest in CLAM.
(g)  Includes Canada for 1998.


 
     At year-end 1998, Marathon was producing crude oil and/or natural gas in
eight countries, including the United States.  Marathon's worldwide liquid
hydrocarbon production increased 32,000 bpd, or approximately 20%, from 1997,
mainly reflecting new production in the Gulf of Mexico, acquired production in
Canada and new operations in Gabon.  Marathon's 1999 worldwide liquid
hydrocarbon production is expected to increase 17% from 1998, to average
approximately 230,000 bpd.  Most of the increase is anticipated in the second
half of the year.  This primarily reflects projected new production from the
Phase I development of the P-A field in Russia, start-up of the Tchatamba South
field in the third quarter of 1999 and a full year of production by Marathon
Canada Limited, partially offset by natural production declines of mature
fields.  In 2000, worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production is expected to remain
consistent with 1999 levels and is expected to increase by approximately 10 to
15% over 2000 productions levels in 2001.

     Marathon's 1998 worldwide sales of equity natural gas production, including
Marathon's share of CLAM's production, increased about 3% from 1997, reflecting
acquired production in Canada and increased production from properties in East
Texas, partially offset by natural declines in international fields (primarily
in Ireland and Norway).  In addition to sales of 474 net mmcfd of international
equity natural gas production, Marathon sold 23 net mmcfd of natural gas
acquired for injection and resale during 1998.  In 1999, Marathon's worldwide
natural gas volumes are expected to increase 11% over 1998 levels, to average
approximately 1.38 bcfd.  This primarily reflects increases in North American
gas production, offset by natural declines in mature international fields,
primarily in Ireland and Norway.  In 2000, worldwide natural gas volumes are
expected to remain consistent with 1999 levels and are expected to increase by
approximately 4% over 2000 levels in 2001.

     The above projections of 1999, 2000 and 2001 liquid hydrocarbon production
and natural gas volumes are forward-looking statements.  They are based on known
discoveries and do not include any additions from potential or future
acquisitions or future wildcat drilling.  They are also based on certain
assumptions, including (among others) prices, amount of capital available for
exploration and development, worldwide supply and demand for petroleum products,
regulatory constraints, reserve estimates, production decline rates of mature
fields, timing of commencing production from new wells, reserve replacement
rates and other geological, operating and economical considerations.  If these
assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results could be materially different
than present expectations.

United States

     Approximately 69% of Marathon's 1998 worldwide liquid hydrocarbon
production and equity liftings and 61% of worldwide natural gas production
(including CLAM volumes) were from domestic operations.  The principal domestic
producing areas are located in Texas, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Wyoming, New
Mexico and Oklahoma.  Marathon's ongoing domestic growth strategy is to apply
its technical expertise in fields with undeveloped potential, to dispose of
interests in non-core properties with limited upside potential and high
production costs, and to acquire significant working interests in properties
with high development potential.

     Marathon continues to apply enhanced recovery and reservoir management
programs and cost containment efforts to maximize liquid hydrocarbon recovery
and profitability in mature fields such as the Yates field in Texas and the
Oregon Basin field in Wyoming. Enhanced recovery efforts for the Yates field
include an ongoing evaluation of thermal recovery techniques.

     Texas - Onshore production for 1998 averaged 33,900 net bpd of liquid
hydrocarbons and 186 net mmcfd of natural gas, representing 25% of Marathon's
total U.S. liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production, respectively.  Liquids
production volumes decreased by 3,600 net bpd from 1997 levels, while gas
volumes increased by 25 net mmcfd from 1997 levels.  The liquid volume decrease
was mainly due to natural production declines and the gas volume increase was a
result of successful development programs in east Texas.

     Within Texas, Marathon owns a 49.8% working interest in, and is the
operator of, the Yates Field Unit, one of the largest fields in the United
States on the basis of reserves.  Marathon's 23,200 net bpd of 1998 liquid
hydrocarbon production from the Yates field and gas plant accounted for 17% of
Marathon's total U.S. liquids


 
production.  Activation of a thermal pilot project began in December 1998 with
the completion of a steam generation facility.

     Gulf of Mexico - During 1998, Marathon's Gulf production averaged 54,700
net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons and 84 net mmcfd of natural gas, representing 41%
and 11% of Marathon's total U.S. liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production,
respectively.  Liquid hydrocarbon production increased by 26,200 net bpd and
natural gas production increased by 7 net mmcfd from the prior year, mainly due
to new production from Troika, Arnold and Oyster, offset by declines from mature
fields.  At year-end 1998, Marathon held working interests in 14 fields and 31
platforms, 20 of which Marathon operates.

     Ewing Bank 873 is an important part of Marathon's deepwater infrastructure,
where Marathon is the operator and holds a 66.7% working interest.  Production
averaged 32,100 net bpd and 24 net mmcfd in 1998, compared with 19,000 net bpd
and 12 net mmcfd in 1997, primarily due to new production from Arnold and
Oyster.

     Wyoming - Liquid hydrocarbon production for 1998 averaged 23,700 net bpd,
representing 18% of Marathon's total U.S. liquid hydrocarbon production, down
from 24,700 net bpd in 1997.  The decrease in 1998 from 1997 was primarily due
to capital restraints and natural production declines.  Gas production averaged
61 net mmcfd in 1998, compared to 54 net mmcfd in 1997, with the increase due
mainly to developments in southwest Wyoming.

     New Mexico - Production in New Mexico, primarily from the Indian Basin and
Travis Canyon fields, averaged 12,500 net bpd and 109 net mmcfd in 1998,
compared with 12,400 net bpd and 109 net mmcfd in 1997.

     Oklahoma - Gas production for 1998 averaged 107 net mmcfd, representing 14%
of Marathon's total U.S. gas production, compared with 109 net mmcfd in 1997.

     Alaska - Marathon's production from Alaska averaged 144 net mmcfd of
natural gas in 1998, compared with 149 net mmcfd in 1997.  Marathon's primary
focus in Alaska is the expansion of its natural gas business through
exploration, exploitation, development and marketing.

International

     Interests in liquid hydrocarbon and/or natural gas production are held in
the U.K. North Sea, Irish Celtic Sea, the Norwegian North Sea, Canada, Egypt and
Gabon.  In addition, Marathon has an interest through an equity affiliate (CLAM)
in the Netherlands North Sea.

     U.K. North Sea - The following table sets forth Marathon's average net
liquid hydrocarbon liftings in the Brae area, for each of the last three years:


     East Brae is a gas condensate field, which uses gas cycling.  The decrease
in East Brae production in 1998 primarily reflects the expected depletion of the
reservoir.  Gas for pressure maintenance at East Brae is provided by injecting
gas streams from the Brae B platform.


 
     North Brae is a gas condensate field, produced via the Brae B platform
using the gas cycling technique.  Although partial cycling continues, the
majority of North Brae gas is being transferred to the East Brae reservoir for
pressure maintenance and sales.  North Brae liftings shown in the table above
include production from the Beinn field, which underlies the North Brae field.
The Brae A facilities act as the host platform for the underlying South Brae
field, adjacent Central Brae field and West Brae/Sedgwick fields.

     The strategic location of the Brae A, Brae B and East Brae platforms and
pipeline infrastructure has generated significant third-party business since
1986.  Arrangements were finalized in 1998 for the processing and transportation
of reservoir fluids from the outside-operated Larch field.  This agreement
brings to 15, the number of third-party fields contracted to the Brae system.
In addition to generating processing and pipeline tariff revenue, third-party
business also has a favorable impact on Brae area operations by optimizing
infrastructure usage and extending the economic life of the facilities.

     Participation in the Scottish Area Gas Evacuation ("SAGE") system provides
pipeline transportation and onshore processing for Brae-area gas.  The Brae
group owns 50% of SAGE, which has a total wet gas capacity of approximately 1.0
bcfd.  The other 50% is owned by the Beryl group, which operates the system.  A
30-inch pipeline connects the Brae, Beryl and Scott fields to the SAGE gas
processing terminal at St. Fergus in northeast Scotland.  The St. Fergus
facilities were expanded in 1998, and a new pipeline connecting the Britannia
field to the St. Fergus terminal began transporting gas for processing through
SAGE in August 1998.

     Marathon's total United Kingdom gas sales from all sources averaged 188 net
mmcfd in 1998, compared with 162 net mmcfd in 1997.  Sales of Brae-area gas
through the SAGE pipeline system averaged 185 net mmcfd for the year 1998 and
159 net mmcfd for the year 1997.  Of these totals, 162 mmcfd and 127 mmcfd was
Brae-area equity gas in 1998 and 1997, respectively, and 23 and 32 mmcfd was gas
acquired for injection and subsequent resale in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Ireland - Marathon holds a 100% working interest in the Kinsale Head and
Ballycotton fields in the Irish Celtic Sea.  Natural gas sales from these
maturing fields were 168 net mmcfd in 1998, compared with 228 net mmcfd in 1997.
This production decline is expected to be partially offset by compressor
modifications being implemented in 1999 and 2000, which is expected to improve
recovery from Kinsale Head, and by the planned development of the Southwest
Kinsale reservoir.

     Norway - In the Norwegian North Sea, Marathon holds a 23.8% working
interest in the Heimdal field, which had 1998 sales of 27 net mmcfd of natural
gas and 900 net bpd of condensate, compared with 1997 sales of 54 net mmcfd of
natural gas and 1,700 net bpd of condensate.  In mid-1994, Marathon issued a
notice of termination on the gas sales agreements for this field based upon low
gas prices and high pipeline tariffs associated with the operations.  The
effective date of the termination was June 11, 1996.  In June 1996, an agreement
was reached with one of the buyers, which provided for an improved economic
position for 30% of the gas sales.  The remaining 70% share of sales, sold under
a separate agreement, remains unresolved, although gas sales have continued
under protest.  Heimdal production is scheduled to cease in late 1999 with
future revenue from third party business commencing in 2002.  During 1998, an
agreement was reached with the Heimdal Group and the operator to redevelop the
field as a processing and transportation center.

     Canada - MCL net production averaged 16,000 bpd and 166 mmcfd from August
12, 1998 through year-end 1998.

     Egypt - Marathon holds interests in four concessions in Egypt under
production sharing agreements.  Liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production
totaled 8,500 net bpd and 16 net mmcfd in 1998, compared with 8,300 net bpd and
11 net mmcfd in 1997.

     Gabon - In 1998, the first year of production, the Tchatamba Marin field
produced 4,700 net bpd of liquid hydrocarbons.


 
     Netherlands - Marathon's 50% equity interest in CLAM, the eighth largest
producer and reserves holder in the Netherlands North Sea, provides a 5%
entitlement in the production of 19 gas fields, which provided sales of 33 net
mmcfd of natural gas in 1998, compared with 42 net mmcfd in 1997.  The decrease
in natural gas sales was mainly attributable to natural production declines and
an equity redetermination.

     The following tables set forth productive wells and service wells for each
of the last three years and drilling wells as of December 31, 1998:
 

 


- -----------
(a)  Includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. Of the gross
     productive wells, gross wells with multiple completions operated by
     Marathon totaled 518, 335 and 329 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
     Information on wells with multiple completions operated by other companies
     is not available to Marathon.
(b)  Consists of injection, water supply and disposal wells.
(c)  Consists of exploratory and development wells.
(d)  Represents CLAM and Sakhalin Energy.
(e)  Represents CLAM.
(f)  Includes Canada.


 
     The following tables set forth average production costs and sales prices
per unit of production for each of the last three years:
 

 
 

- -----------
(a)  Production costs are as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission
     and include property taxes, severance taxes and other costs, but exclude
     depreciation, depletion and amortization of capitalized acquisition,
     exploration and development costs and certain administrative costs. Natural
     gas volumes were converted to barrels of oil equivalent using a conversion
     factor of six mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil.
(b)  Represents CLAM.
(c)  Prices exclude gains/losses from hedging activities.
(d)  Includes Canada for 1998.
 
Refining, Marketing and Transportation

     Effective January 1, 1998, Marathon and Ashland Inc. ("Ashland") formed a
new domestic refining, marketing and transportation ("RM&T") company, Marathon
Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP").  On January 1, 1998, Marathon transferred certain
RM&T net assets to MAP.  Also, on January 1, 1998, Marathon acquired certain
RM&T net assets from Ashland in exchange for a 38% interest in MAP.  For further
discussion of MAP, see Note 3 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements on
page U-10.

     Since MAP is a consolidated subsidiary of Marathon, operating statistics
and financial data applicable to the Marathon Group's RM&T activities include
100% of MAP's operations, commencing January 1, 1998.

     The following discussion of RM&T operations includes historical data for
the three-year period ended December 31, 1998.  Operating measures such as
refined product yields and refined product sales in 1998 include 100% of MAP and
are not comparable to prior period amounts.


 
Refining

     MAP owns and operates seven refineries with an aggregate refining capacity
of 935,000 barrels of crude oil per calendar day.  The table below sets forth
the location and daily throughput capacity of each of MAP's refineries as of
December 31, 1998:



     MAP's refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation,
fluid catalytic cracking, catalytic reforming, desulfurization and sulfur
recovery units.  The refineries have the capability to process a wide variety of
crude oils and to produce typical refinery products, including reformulated
gasoline.  MAP's refineries are integrated via pipelines and barges to maximize
operating efficiency.  The transportation links that connect the refineries
allow the movement of intermediate products to optimize operations and the
production of higher margin products.  For example, naphtha is moved from Texas
City and Catlettsburg to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available.
Gas oil is moved from Robinson to Detroit and Cattlettsburg where excess fluid
catalytic cracking unit capacity is available.  Light cycle oil is moved from
Texas City to Robinson where excess desulfurization capacity is available.

     Marathon's 50,000 bpd Indianapolis refinery, which was not contributed to
MAP, has remained  idled since October 1993.  The status of the refinery is
periodically reviewed, considering economic as well as regulatory matters.  In
1998, several refining components were dismantled and sold.  As of February 28,
1999, the refinery remained idled.

     During 1998, MAP's refineries processed 894,000 bpd of crude oil and
127,000 bpd of other charge and blend stocks.  The following table sets forth
MAP's refinery production by product group for 1998 and Marathon's refinery
production by product group for 1997 and 1996:


     Maintenance activities requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery
operating units ("turnarounds") are periodically performed at each of the
operating refineries.  MAP completed  major turnarounds at the Garyville and
Canton refineries in 1998.  In addition, a maintenance and safety improvement
program was implemented and substantially completed at the Catlettsburg, Canton
and St. Paul Park refineries in 1998.

     MAP and a third party are constructing facilities to produce 800 million
pounds per year of polymer grade propylene and polypropylene at the Garyville
refinery.  MAP is building, and will own and operate facilities to


 
produce polymer grade propylene.  The third party is constructing, and will own
and operate the polypropylene facilities and market its output.  Production of
the polymer grade propylene is scheduled to begin in the second quarter of 1999.

Marketing

     In 1998, MAP's refined product sales volumes (excluding matching buy/sell
transactions) totaled 17.8 billion gallons (1,159,000 bpd).  Excluding sales
related to matching buy/sell transactions, the wholesale distribution of
petroleum products to private brand marketers and to large commercial and
industrial consumers, primarily located in the Midwest, the upper Great Plains
and the Southeast, accounted for about 64% of MAP's refined product sales
volumes in 1998.  Approximately 46% of MAP's gasoline volumes and 77% of its
distillate volumes were sold on a wholesale basis to independent unbranded
customers in 1998.

     The following table sets forth the volume of MAP's consolidated refined
product sales by product group for 1998 and Marathon's consolidated refined
product sales by product group for 1997 and 1996:


     As of December 31, 1998, MAP supplied petroleum products to 3,117 Marathon
and Ashland branded retail outlets located primarily in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana,
Kentucky and Illinois.  Branded retail outlets are also located in the states of
West Virginia, Wisconsin, Virginia, Tennessee, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and North
Carolina.

     MAP currently has both the Marathon and Ashland brands for jobbers.  In
1998, MAP decided to endorse a single brand concept for maximum market
effectiveness.  The brand chosen was Marathon because of its significant
longtime presence in the market and its substantially larger number of retail
outlets and credit card holders.  If an Ashland jobber chooses to become a
Marathon branded jobber, MAP assists in re-imaging the applicable locations to
Marathon brand specifications.

     In 1998, retail sales of gasoline and diesel fuel were also made through
limited service and self-service stations and truck stops operated in 20 states
by a wholly owned MAP subsidiary, Speedway SuperAmerica, LLC ("SSA").  As of
December 31, 1998, this subsidiary had 2,257 retail outlets which sold petroleum
products and convenience-store merchandise, primarily under the brand names
"Speedway," "SuperAmerica", "Starvin' Marvin" and "Rich".  SSA's revenues from
the sale of convenience-store merchandise totaled $1,827 million in 1998,
compared with $1,037 million for Emro Marketing Company in 1997.  Profits
generated from these sales tend to moderate the margin volatility experienced in
the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel.  The selection of merchandise
varies among outlets -- 1,978 of SSA's 2,257 outlets at December 31, 1998, had
convenience stores which sold a variety of food and merchandise, and the
remaining outlets sold selected convenience-store items such as cigarettes,
candy and beverages.

     In July 1998, MAP announced plans to locate the SSA corporate headquarters
in Enon, Ohio, where Emro Marketing Company was formerly located.  The move to
Enon was completed in December 1998.


 
Supply and Transportation

     The crude oil processed in MAP's refineries is obtained from negotiated
lease, contract and spot purchases or exchanges.  In 1998, MAP's negotiated
lease, contract and spot purchases of U.S. crude oil for refinery input averaged
317,000 bpd including 24,000 bpd acquired from Marathon.  In 1998, 64% or
577,000 bpd of the crude oil processed by MAP's refineries was from foreign
sources and acquired primarily from various foreign national oil companies,
producing companies and traders, of which approximately 330,000 bpd was acquired
from the Middle East.

     In addition, MAP, through its subsidiary, Scurlock Permian LLC, is actively
engaged in purchasing, selling and trading crude oil, principally at Midland,
Texas; Cushing, Oklahoma; and St. James, Louisiana, three of the major
distribution points for U.S. crude oil, and at major trading and distribution
hubs in western Canada.  MAP announced on March 1, 1999, that it signed a
memorandum of understanding to sell Scurlock Permian LLC to Plains All American
Pipeline, L.P.  The transaction, subject to customary closing conditions,
including execution of definitive agreements, consent of third parties, and
receipt of governmental approvals, is expected to be completed in the second
quarter of 1999.

     MAP operates a system of pipelines and terminals to provide crude oil to
its refineries and refined products to its marketing areas.  Eighty-eight light
product and asphalt terminals are strategically located throughout the Midwest,
upper Great Plains and Southeast.  These facilities are supplied by a
combination of pipelines, barges, rail cars and trucks.

     At December 31, 1998, MAP owned, leased or had an ownership interest in
approximately 2,653 miles of crude oil gathering lines; 4,553 miles of crude oil
trunk lines; and 2,861 miles of products trunk lines.  In addition, MAP owned a
46.7% interest in LOOP LLC ("LOOP"), which is the owner and operator of the only
U.S. deepwater oil port, located 18 miles off the coast of Louisiana; a 49.9%
interest in LOCAP Inc. ("LOCAP"), which is the owner and operator of a crude oil
pipeline connecting LOOP and the Capline system; and a 37.2% interest in the
Capline system, a large diameter crude oil pipeline extending from St. James,
Louisiana to Patoka, Illinois.

     MAP also has a 33.3% ownership interest in Minnesota Pipe Line Company,
which operates a crude oil pipeline in Minnesota.  Minnesota Pipe Line Company
provides MAP with access to 270,000 bpd nominal capacity of crude oil common
carrier transportation from Clearbrook, Minnesota to Cottage Grove, Minnesota,
which is in the vicinity of MAP's St. Paul Park, Minnesota, refinery.

     MAP plans to build a pipeline from its Catlettsburg refinery to Columbus,
Ohio.  The wholly owned pipeline is expected to initially move about 50,000 bpd
of refined products into central Ohio.  Construction is expected to commence in
the summer of 1999 after final regulatory approvals.  The pipeline is expected
to be operational in the first half of 2000.

     MAP's marine transportation operations include towboats and barges that
transport refined products on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers, their
tributaries, and the Intercoastal Waterway. MAP leases on a long-term basis two
single-hulled 80,000-ton-deadweight tankers, which are primarily used for third-
party delivery of foreign crude oil to the United States.  The initial term of
these charters expires in 2001 and 2002, subject to certain renewal options.
These tankers are not essential for MAP to satisfy its own crude oil
requirements.  In 1999, MAP "bare boat sub-chartered" these tankers to a third
party operator, who will operate the vessels.

     MAP leases rail cars in various sizes and capacities for movement of
petroleum products.  MAP also owns a large number of tractors, tank trailers,
and general service trucks.

     The above discussion related to Scurlock Permian LLC contains forward-
looking statements regarding the schedule for closing the sale transaction.  The
closing of this transaction and the timing thereof involve uncertainties
including, but not limited to, the execution of definitive agreements, receipt
of government approvals, consent of third parties, and satisfaction of customary
closing conditions.  A delay in completing any of these could


 
result in a delay in closing the sale transaction.  In addition, failure to
complete any of these events could result in the sale transaction not closing as
currently contemplated.

Other Energy Related Businesses

Natural Gas and Crude Oil Marketing and Transportation

     Marathon owns and operates, as a common carrier, approximately 174 miles of
crude oil gathering lines and 187 miles of crude oil trunk lines that were not
contributed to MAP.  In addition, Marathon owns interests in various pipeline
systems that were not contributed to MAP, including a 29% interest of Odyssey
Pipeline L.L.C., which owns and operates a 300,000 bpd crude oil pipeline
serving Main Pass Blocks 69, 72 and 289 and Viosca Knoll Blocks 780 and 786; a
28% interest of Poseidon Oil Pipeline Company, L.L.C., which owns and operates a
400,000 bpd crude oil pipeline system connected to the Marathon-operated Ewing
Bank 873 platform in the Gulf of Mexico; a 24.33% interest of Nautilus Pipeline
Company, L.L.C., which owns and operates a 600 mmcfd natural gas pipeline
system, also located in the Gulf of Mexico; a 17.4% interest of Explorer
Pipeline Company, which operates a light products pipeline system extending from
the Gulf Coast to the Midwest; and a 2.5% interest of Colonial Pipeline Company,
which operates a light products pipeline system extending from the Gulf Coast to
the East Coast.

     Marathon has a 30% ownership in a Kenai, Alaska, natural gas liquefication
plant and two 87,500 cubic meter tankers used to transport liquefied natural gas
("LNG") to customers in Japan.  Feedstock for the plant is supplied from a
portion of Marathon's equity natural gas production in the Cook Inlet.  LNG is
sold under a long-term contract with two of Japan's largest utility companies
which calls for the sale of more than 900 gross bcf over the term of the
contract.  Marathon has a 30% participation in this contract which is effective
through March 31, 2004, and provides an option for a five-year extension.
During 1998, LNG deliveries totaled 66.0 gross bcf (20.0 net bcf), up from 62.2
gross bcf (18.6 net bcf) in 1997.

     In addition to the sale of domestic equity production of natural gas,
Marathon purchases gas from third-party producers and marketers for resale.
This activity helps to maximize the value of Marathon's equity gas production,
while meeting customers' needs for secure and source-flexible supplies.

     The Marathon Group includes five USX subsidiaries that are engaged solely
in the natural gas business.  Carnegie Interstate Pipeline Company ("CIPCO") is
an interstate pipeline company engaged in the transportation of natural gas via
interstate commerce.  Carnegie Production Company produces and sells natural
gas, while Carnegie Natural Gas Sales, Inc. is an unregulated marketer of
natural gas. Carnegie Natural Gas Company ("Carnegie") functions as a local
distribution company serving residential, commercial and industrial customers in
West Virginia and western Pennsylvania.  Finally, Carnegie Natural Gas Storage
LLC was established to invest in gas storage projects.  As of December 31, 1998,
Carnegie owned and operated approximately 1,800 miles of natural gas gathering
lines.  Owned proved developed reserves dedicated to gathering operations were
44.7 bcf in 1998 as compared to 39.8 bcf and 42.8 bcf in 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

     Carnegie is regulated as a public utility by state commissions within its
service areas, while CIPCO is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission as an interstate pipeline.  Total natural gas throughput was 23 bcf
in 1998 compared to 32 bcf and 34 bcf in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Power Generation

     Marathon, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Marathon Power Company, Ltd.
("Marathon Power"), pursues development, construction, ownership and operation
of independent electric power projects in the global electrical power market. In
1997, Marathon Power acquired a 50% interest in an Ecuadorian power generation
company, which owns and operates two generating plants in Ecuador capable of
delivering 130 megawatts of power. Marathon Power is actively pursuing a variety
of projects in Latin America, Europe, Africa and the Asia/Pacific Region.


 
Competition and Market Conditions

     The oil and gas industry is characterized by a large number of companies,
none of which is dominant within the industry, but a number of which have
greater resources than Marathon.  Marathon must compete with these companies for
the rights to explore for oil and gas.  Acquiring the more attractive
exploration opportunities frequently requires competitive bids involving
substantial front-end bonus payments or commitments to work programs.  Based on
industry sources, Marathon believes it currently ranks 11th among U.S. based
petroleum corporations on the basis of 1997 worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and
natural gas production.

     Marathon through MAP must also compete with a large number of other
companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution
and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. MAP believes it ranks
fourth among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of crude oil refining
capacity as of January 1, 1999.  MAP competes in three distinct markets --
wholesale, branded and retail distribution -- for the sale of refined products,
and believes it competes with more than 50 companies in the wholesale
distribution of petroleum products to private brand marketers and large
commercial and industrial consumers; nine refiner/marketers in the supply of
branded petroleum products to dealers and jobbers; and over 1,800 petroleum
product retailers in the retail sale of petroleum products.  Marathon also
competes in the convenience store industry through MAP's retail outlets.

     The Marathon Group's operating results are affected by price changes in
crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products as well as changes in competitive
conditions in the markets it serves. Generally, operating results from
production operations benefit from higher crude oil and natural gas prices while
refining and marketing margins may be adversely affected by crude oil price
increases.  Market conditions in the oil industry are cyclical and subject to
global economic and political events.

Employees

     The Marathon Group had 32,862 active employees as of December 31, 1998,
which included 28,449 MAP employees.  Of the MAP total, 21,586 were employees of
Speedway SuperAmerica, LLC, primarily representing employees at retail marketing
outlets.

     Certain hourly employees at the Catlettsburg and Canton refineries are
represented by the Paper, Allied Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers
International Union under labor agreements which expire on January 31, 2002,
while certain hourly employees at the Texas City refinery are represented by the
same union under a labor agreement which expires on March 31, 2002.  Certain
hourly employees at the St. Paul Park and Detroit refineries are represented by
the International Brotherhood of Teamsters under labor agreements which expire
on May 31, 1999 and January 31, 2000, respectively.

Property, Plant and Equipment Additions

     For property, plant and equipment additions, see "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity - Capital
Expenditures" for the Marathon Group on page M-29.

Environmental Matters

     The Marathon Group maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen
by the Public Policy Committee of the USX Board of Directors.  The Health,
Environment and Safety organization has the responsibility to ensure that the
Marathon Group's operating organizations maintain environmental compliance
systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  The
Health, Environment and Safety Management Committee, which is comprised of
officers of the group, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with
various environmental compliance programs.  Also, the Marathon Group has formed
an Emergency Management Team, composed of senior management, which will oversee
the response to any major emergency environmental incident throughout the group.


 
     The businesses of the Marathon Group are subject to numerous federal, state
and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act ("CAA") with
respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act ("CWA") with respect to water
discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") with respect to
solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") with respect
to releases and remediation of hazardous substances, and the Oil Pollution Act
of 1990 ("OPA-90") with respect to oil pollution and response.  In addition,
many states where the Marathon Group operates have similar laws dealing with the
same matters.  These laws and their associated regulations are constantly
evolving and becoming increasingly stringent.  The ultimate impact of complying
with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable
due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as
RCRA and the CAA have not yet been finalized or in certain instances are
undergoing revision.  These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the
1990 Amendments to the CAA and new water quality standards, could result in
increased capital, operating and compliance costs.

     For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of
compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and
Contingencies" on page M-31 and "Legal Proceedings" for the Marathon Group on
page 37.

     The Marathon Group has incurred and will continue to incur substantial
capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of
environmental laws and regulations.  To the extent these expenditures, as with
all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of the Marathon Group's
products and services, operating results will be adversely affected.  The
Marathon Group believes that substantially all of its competitors are subject to
similar environmental laws and regulations.  However, the specific impact on
each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and
location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and
whether or not it is engaged in the petrochemical business or the marine
transportation of crude oil or refined products.

Air

     The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions, establishes a federally
mandated operating permit program and allows for civil and criminal enforcement
sanctions.  The principal impact of the CAA on the Marathon Group is on its RM&T
operations.  The CAA also establishes attainment deadlines and control
requirements based on the severity of air pollution in a geographical area.  It
is estimated that, from 1999 to 2002, the Marathon Group, which includes all
seven MAP refineries, may spend approximately $90 million in order to comply
with the proposed Maximum Achievable Control Technology ("MACT") Phase II
standards under the CAA.  These standards require new control equipment on Fluid
Catalytic Cracking Units and other units.  In addition, the standards for RFG
become even more stringent in the year 2000, when Phase II Complex Model RFG
will be required.  It is expected that new Tier II Fuels regulations will be
issued during 1999, requiring reduced sulfur levels in both gasoline and diesel
fuels, which would not take effect until sometime after 2002.  It is anticipated
that if final regulations are adopted, consistent with earlier drafts of the
regulations, the compliance cost for these regulations could amount to a total
of several hundred million dollars spread over a period of several years.

     In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (" U.S. EPA") promulgated
the revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards ("NAAQS") for ozone
and particulate matter.  Additionally, in 1998, the U.S. EPA published a
nitrogen oxide ("NOx") State Implementation Plan ("SIP") call, which would
require some 22 states, including many states where the Marathon Group has
operations, to revise their SIPs to reduce NOx emissions.  The effective date
for any additional NOx control mechanisms to be installed will not be until May
2003.  The impact of the revised NAAQS and NOx standards could be significant to
Marathon, but the potential financial effects cannot be reasonably estimated
until the states develop and implement their revised SIPs  covering their NAAQS
and NOx (particularly if it covers fuels) standards.


 
Water

     The Marathon Group maintains numerous discharge permits as required under
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and has
implemented systems to oversee its compliance efforts.  In addition, the
Marathon Group is regulated under OPA-90 which amended the CWA.  Among other
requirements, OPA-90 requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a
facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to discharges of oil or
hazardous substances.  Also, in case of such spills, OPA-90 requires responsible
companies to pay removal costs and damages caused by them, provides for
substantial civil penalties, and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of
this law.

     Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating
in domestic waters be double-hulled, and that existing tank vessels that are not
double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from domestic service, according to a
phase-out schedule.  MAP leases on a long-term basis two single-hulled, 80,000-
ton-deadweight tankers, which are primarily used for third-party delivery of
foreign crude oil to the United States.  The initial term of these charters
expires in 2001 and 2002, subject to certain renewal options.  In 1999, MAP
"bare boat sub-chartered" these tankers to a third party operator, who will
operate the vessels.  The Coast Guard National Pollution Funds Center has
granted permission to Marathon and Ashland to self-insure the financial
responsibility amount for liability purposes for MAP's tankers, as provided in
OPA-90.  In addition, most of the barges, which are used in MAP's river
transportation operations, meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90.
Single-hulled barges owned and operated by MAP are in the process of being
phased out.  Displaced single-hulled barges will be divested or recycled into
docks or floats within MAP's system.

     The Marathon Group operates facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous
substances could occur. Several coastal states in which Marathon operates have
passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions,
including provisions for cargo owners as well as ship owners.  Marathon has
implemented emergency oil response plans for all of its components and
facilities covered by OPA-90.

Solid Waste

     The Marathon Group continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of
hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the
management of solid and hazardous wastes.  Besides affecting current waste
disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain
past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of
underground storage tanks ("USTs") containing regulated substances.  Since the
U.S. EPA has not yet promulgated implementing regulations for all provisions of
RCRA and has not yet made clear the practical application of all the
implementing regulations it has promulgated, the ultimate cost of compliance
cannot be accurately estimated.  In addition, new laws are being enacted and
regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing
basis, and the costs of compliance with these new rules can only be broadly
appraised until their implementation becomes more accurately defined.

Remediation

     The Marathon Group operates certain retail outlets where, during the normal
course of operations, releases of petroleum products from USTs have occurred.
Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at
these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards.  The
enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states
which administer their own UST programs.  The Marathon Group's obligation to
remediate such contamination varies, depending upon the extent of the releases
and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which it
operates.  A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from state
UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied.
Accruals for remediation expenses and associated reimbursements are established
for sites where contamination has been determined to exist and the amount of
associated costs is reasonably determinable.

     As a general rule, Marathon and Ashland retained responsibility for certain
costs of remediation arising out of the prior ownership and operation of those
businesses transferred to MAP.  Such continuing responsibility,


 
in certain situations, may be subject to threshold or sunset agreements which
gradually diminish this responsibility over time.

     USX is also involved in a number of remedial actions under RCRA, CERCLA and
similar state statutes related to the Marathon Group.  It is possible that
additional matters relating to the Marathon Group may come to USX's attention
which may require remediation.


 
U.S. STEEL GROUP

     The U. S. Steel Group includes U. S. Steel, the largest steel producer in
the United States, which is  engaged in the production and sale of steel mill
products, coke, and taconite pellets; the management of mineral resources;
domestic coal mining; real estate development; and engineering and consulting
services.  Certain business activities are conducted through joint ventures and
partially-owned companies, such as USS/Kobe Steel Company ("USS/Kobe"), USS-
POSCO Industries ("USS-POSCO"), PRO-TEC Coating Company ("PRO-TEC"),  Transtar,
Inc. ("Transtar"), Clairton 1314B Partnership, VSZ U. S. Steel, s. r.o. and RTI
International Metals, Inc. ("RTI").  U. S. Steel Group revenues as a percentage
of total USX consolidated revenues were approximately 22% in 1998, 31% in 1997
and 29% in 1996.

     The following table sets forth the total revenues of the U. S. Steel Group
for each of the last three years.

- -----------
(a)  Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by-products, engineering
     and consulting services, real estate development and resource management.
(b)  For further details, see Note 5 to the U. S. Steel Group Financial
     Statements.

     For additional financial information about USX's industry segments, see
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements - 10. Group and Segment Information" on page U -13.

     The total number of active U. S. Steel Group employees at year-end 1998 was
19,169. Most hourly and certain salaried employees are represented by the United
Steelworkers of America ("USWA").

     U. S. Steel's contract with the USWA, covering approximately 15,000
employees, expires on August 1, 1999. U. S. Steel's ability to negotiate an
acceptable labor contract is essential to ongoing operations. Any labor
interruptions could have an adverse effect on operations, financial results and
cash flow.

     U. S. Steel Mining Company, LLC ("U. S. Steel Mining") entered into a five
year contract with the United Mine Workers of America ("UMWA"), effective
January 1, 1998, covering approximately 1,000 employees. This agreement follows
that of other major mining companies.

Steel Industry Background and Competition

     The domestic steel industry is cyclical and highly competitive and is
affected by excess world capacity which has restricted price increases during
periods of economic growth and led to price decreases during economic
contraction. In addition, the domestic steel industry, including U. S. Steel,
faces competition from producers of materials such as aluminum, cement,
composites, glass, plastics and wood in many markets.

     U. S. Steel is the largest steel producer in the United States and competes
with many domestic and foreign steel producers. Domestic competitors include
integrated producers which, like U. S. Steel, use iron ore and coke as


 
primary raw materials for steel production, and mini-mills which primarily use
steel scrap and, increasingly, iron bearing feedstocks as raw materials. Mini-
mills generally produce a narrower range of steel products than integrated
producers, but typically enjoy certain competitive advantages such as lower
capital expenditures for construction of facilities and non-unionized work
forces with lower employment costs and more flexible work rules. An increasing
number of mini-mills utilize thin slab casting technology to produce flat-rolled
products, and additional domestic flat-rolled mini-mill capacity was added in
1998. Through the use of thin slab casting, mini-mill competitors are
increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers of flat-rolled
products. Depending on market conditions, the additional production generated by
flat-rolled mini-mills could have an adverse effect on U. S. Steel's selling
prices and shipment levels.

     Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 30%, 24% and
23% of the domestic steel market for the years 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. In November 1998, steel imports accounted for an estimated 37% of
the domestic steel market. Steel imports of hot rolled and cold rolled steel
increased 42% in 1998, compared to 1997. Steel imports of plates increased 75%
in 1998, compared to 1997. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs,
and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, allowing
their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and
economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions.
Continued high levels of imported steel will have an adverse affect on future
market prices and demand levels for domestic steel.

     On September 30, 1998, U. S. Steel joined with 11 other producers and the
USWA to file trade cases against Japan, Russia, and Brazil. Those filings
contend that millions of tons of unfairly traded hot-rolled carbon sheet
products have caused serious injury to the domestic steel industry through
rapidly falling prices and lost business. The U. S. International Trade
Commission ("ITC"), in its preliminary November 1998, determination, found the
domestic steel industry was being threatened with material injury as a result of
imports of hot-rolled carbon sheet products from these three countries. This
preliminary determination of injury is subject to further investigation by the
ITC and U.S. Department of Commerce ("Commerce"). On February 12, 1999, Commerce
announced preliminary anti-dumping duty margins on hot rolled imports from Japan
(ranging from approximately 25% to 67%) and Brazil (ranging from approximately
50% to 71%) and preliminary countervailing duty margins on imports from Brazil
(ranging from more than 6% to more than 9%). On February 22, 1999, Commerce
announced  preliminary anti-dumping duty margins on hot rolled imports from
Russia (ranging from approximately 71% to 217%). However, Commerce announced at
the same time that it had initialed an agreement with Russia to suspend the
anti-dumping investigation on hot rolled imports from Russia. This agreement, if
approved, allows the annual import of 750,000 metric tons of hot rolled steel
product from Russia at a minimum price ranging from $255 to $280 FOB per metric
ton. U. S. Steel is opposed to this agreement and is reviewing all available
remedies to challenge this agreement. U. S. Steel will pursue the hot rolled
import case against Russia to obtain the issuance of final determinations by
Commerce and the ITC. The preliminary injury determination and the preliminary
anti-dumping and countervailing duty margin determinations are subject to
further investigation by the ITC and Commerce.  It is presently expected that
Commerce will issue its final anti-dumping and countervailing duty margin
determinations on April 28, 1999, and the ITC will issue its final injury
determination on June 2, 1999.

     In addition to announcing the preliminary anti-dumping duty margins on hot
rolled imports from Russia and the proposed suspension agreement on those
imports, Commerce also announced on February 22, 1999 that it had initialed an
agreement with Russia to restrict imports of major steel products, other than
hot rolled and cut-to-length plate, from Russia. U. S. Steel is opposed to this
agreement.

     Plate products accounted for 10%, 8% and 9% of U. S. Steel Group shipments
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. On November 5, 1996, two other domestic
steel plate producers filed antidumping cases with Commerce and the ITC
asserting that People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, and
South Africa engaged in unfair trade practices with respect to the export of
carbon cut-to-length plate to the United States. U. S. Steel Group has supported
these cases. Commerce issued final affirmative determination of dumping for each
country in October 1997, finding substantial dumping margins on cut-to-length
steel plate imports from these countries. In December 1997, the ITC voted
unanimously that the United States industry producing cut-to-length carbon steel
plate was injured due to imports of dumped cut-to-length plate from the four
countries. The


 
United States has negotiated suspension agreements that limit imports of cut-to-
length carbon steel plate from the four countries to a total of approximately
440,000 tons per year for the next five years, a reduction of about two-thirds
from 1996 import levels, and provide for an average 10-15% increase in import
prices to remove the injurious impact of the imports. Any violation or
abrogation of the suspension agreements will result in imposition of the dumping
duties found by Commerce.

     On February 16, 1999, U. S. Steel, along with Bethlehem Steel Corporation,
IPSCO, Inc., Gulf States Steel Inc., Tuscaloosa Steel Company, and the USWA,
filed trade cases against South Korea, France, Italy, Macedonia, India, the
Czech Republic, Japan, and Indonesia, contending that dumped and subsidized cut-
to-length plate are being imported into the United States from these countries.

     The U. S. Steel Group's businesses are subject to numerous federal, state
and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, emission and
discharge of environmentally sensitive materials. U. S. Steel believes that its
major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially
similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with
regard to such other competitors is materially affected by the impact of
environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating
restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations
may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steel's competitive position with regard to
domestic mini-mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials
which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent
costs in their operations. For further information, see Environmental
Proceedings on page 40, Legal Proceedings on page 40, and Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies
on page S-30.

Business Strategy

     U. S. Steel produces raw steel at Gary Works in Indiana, Mon Valley Works
in Pennsylvania and Fairfield Works in Alabama.

     U. S. Steel has responded to competition resulting from excess steel
industry capability by eliminating less efficient facilities, modernizing those
that remain and entering into joint ventures, all with the objective of focusing
production on higher value-added products, where superior quality and special
characteristics are of critical importance. These products include bake
hardenable steels and coated sheets for the automobile and appliance industries,
laminated sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment,
improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular
goods. Modernization projects over the past two years support U. S. Steel's
objectives of providing value-added products.  These projects included the
dualine coating lines at Fairfield Works and Mon Valley Works for the
construction market; the cold mill upgrades at Gary Works and Mon Valley Works;
the second hot-dip galvanized sheet line at PRO-TEC and the Fairless Works
galvanizing line upgrade for the automotive market. In 1998, U. S. Steel began
the conversion of the Fairfield Works bloom caster and pipemill to use round
semifinished steel for tubular production.  This project is planned to come on
line in 1999 and will enhance U. S. Steel's ability to serve the tubular goods
markets. Additional modernization projects in 1999 include  the new 64" pickle
line and upgrades to the cold mill at Mon Valley Works, the upgrade of the hot
strip mill coilers and replacement of coke battery thruwalls at Gary Works, the
basic oxygen furnace emissions project at Fairfield Works, and the new customer
service center in Detroit to support our automotive business. These projects
support U. S. Steel's objective of providing quality value-added products and
services to customers.

     In addition to the modernization of its production facilities, USX has
entered into a number of joint ventures with domestic and foreign partners to
take advantage of market or manufacturing opportunities in the sheet, tin mill,
tubular, bar and plate consuming industries. In November 1998, operations
commenced on the newly constructed hot-dip galvanized sheet line at PRO-TEC.
This second line expanded PRO-TEC's capacity by nearly 400,000 tons a year to
1.0 million tons annually. The increase in capacity will enable U. S. Steel to
offer additional value-added products to the automotive industry. Also in 1998,
Olympic Laser Processing L.L.C. (a 50-50 joint venture between U. S. Steel Group
and Olympic Steel, Inc.) completed construction of the world's first fully
automated laser blank welding facility. Laser welded blanks are used in the
automotive industry for an increasing number of body fabrication applications.
Commercial operations will begin in 1999 once the facility


 
becomes certified for specific parts with the automotive manufacturers.

     U. S. Steel continues to pursue lower manufacturing cost objectives through
continuing cost improvement programs. These initiatives include, but are not
limited to, reduced production cycle time, improved yields, increased customer
orientation and improved process control.

U. S. Steel Segment Operations

     U. S. Steel operates plants which produce steel products in a variety of
forms and grades. Raw steel production was 11.2 million tons in 1998, compared
with 12.3 million tons in 1997 and 11.4 million tons in 1996. Raw steel produced
was nearly 100% continuous cast in 1998, 1997 and 1996. Raw steel production
averaged 88% of capability in 1998, compared with 97% of capability in 1997 and
89% of capability in 1996. U.S. Steel's stated annual raw steel production
capability was 12.8 millions tons for 1998 (7.7 million at Gary Works, 2.8
million at Mon Valley Works and 2.3 million at Fairfield Works).

     Steel shipments were 10.7 million tons in 1998, 11.6 million tons in 1997
and 11.4 million tons in 1996. U. S. Steel Group shipments comprised
approximately 10.3% of domestic steel shipments in 1998. Exports accounted for
approximately 4% of U. S. Steel Group shipments in 1998, 1997 and 1996.


 
     The following tables set forth significant U. S. Steel shipment data by
major markets and products for each of the last three years. Such data do not
include shipments by joint ventures and other affiliates of USX accounted for by
the equity method.



 
The following table lists products and services by facility or business unit:

   Gary.............................  Sheets; Tin Mill; Plates; Coke
   Fairfield........................  Sheets; Tubular
   Mon Valley.......................  Sheets
   Fairless.........................  Sheets; Tin Mill
   USS-POSCO(a).....................  Sheets; Tin Mill
   USS/Kobe(a)......................  Bar; Tubular
   PRO-TEC(a).......................  Galvanized Sheet
   VSZ U. S. Steel s. r.o.(a).......  Tin Mill
   Clairton.........................  Coke
   Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)....  Coke
   Transtar(a)......................  Transportation
   RTI(a)...........................  Titanium Metal
   Minntac..........................  Taconite Pellets
   U.S. Steel Mining................  Coal
   Resource Management..............  Administration of Mineral, Coal and Timber
                                        Properties
   USX Realty Development...........  Real estate sales, leasing and management
   USX Engineers and Consultants....  Engineering and Consulting Services

- ----------- 
(a) Equity affiliate

     USX and its wholly owned entity, U. S. Steel Mining, have domestic coal
properties with demonstrated bituminous coal reserves of approximately 790
million net tons at year-end 1998 compared with approximately 799 million net
tons at year-end 1997. The decrease in 1998 was due to production, leasing
activity and engineering revisions. The reserves are of metallurgical and steam
quality in approximately equal proportions. They are located in Alabama,
Illinois, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and West Virginia. Approximately 96%
of the reserves are owned, and the rest are leased. The leased properties are
covered by a lease which expires in 2005. U. S. Steel Mining's coal production
was 7.3 million tons in 1998, compared with 7.5 million tons in 1997 and 7.3
million tons in 1996. Coal shipments were 7.7 million tons in 1998, compared
with 7.8 million tons in 1997 and 7.1 million tons in 1996.

     USX controls domestic iron ore properties having demonstrated iron ore
reserves in grades subject to beneficiation processes in commercial use by U. S.
Steel of approximately 739 million tons at year-end 1998, substantially all of
which are iron ore concentrate equivalents available from low-grade iron-bearing
materials. All demonstrated reserves are located in Minnesota. Approximately 32%
of these reserves are owned and the remaining 68% are leased. Most of the leased
reserves are covered by a lease expiring in 2058 and the remaining leases have
expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2026. U. S. Steel's iron ore operations at
Mt. Iron, Minnesota ("Minntac") produced 15.8 million net tons of taconite
pellets in 1998, 16.3 million net tons in 1997 and 15.1 million net tons in
1996. Taconite pellet shipments were 15.4 million tons in 1998, compared with
16.5 million tons in 1997 and 15.0 million tons in 1996.

     USX's Resource Management administers the remaining mineral lands and
timber lands of U. S. Steel and is responsible for the lease or sale of these
lands and their associated resources, which encompass approximately 300,000
acres of surface rights and 1,500,000 acres of mineral rights in 13 states.

     USX Engineers and Consultants, Inc. sells technical services worldwide to
the steel, mining, chemical and related industries. Together with its subsidiary
companies, it provides engineering and consulting services for facility
expansions and modernizations, operating improvement projects, integrated
computer systems, coal and lubrication testing and environmental projects.

     USX Realty Development develops real estate for sale or lease and manages
retail and office space, business and industrial parks and residential and
recreational properties.


 
     For significant operating data for U. S. Steel Operations for each of the
last five years, see "USX Consolidation Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data - Five-Year Operating Summary - U. S. Steel Group" on page U-37.

     USX participates directly and through subsidiaries in a number of joint
ventures included in the U. S. Steel segment operations. All of the joint
ventures are accounted for under the equity method. Certain of the joint
ventures and other investments are described below, all of which are at least
50% owned except Transtar, RTI, Acero Prime and the Clairton 1314B Partnership.
For financial information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Financial Statements -
16. Investments and Long-term Receivables" for the U. S. Steel Group on page S-
15.

     USX and Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. ("POSCO") of South Korea participate
in a joint venture, USS-POSCO, which owns and operates the former U. S. Steel
Pittsburg, California Plant. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and
tin products, principally in the western United States market area. USS-POSCO
produces cold-rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin-free steel.
USS-POSCO's annual rated shipment capacity is 1.4 million tons with hot bands
principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO. Total shipments by USS-POSCO were
approximately 1.5 million tons in 1998.

     USX and Kobe Steel, Ltd. ("Kobe") of Japan participate in a joint venture,
USS/Kobe, which owns and operates the former U. S. Steel Lorain, Ohio Works. The
joint venture produces raw steel for the manufacture of bar and tubular
products. Bar products are sold by USS/Kobe while U. S. Steel has sales and
marketing responsibilities for tubular products. Total shipments by USS/Kobe in
1998 were approximately 1.4 million tons. USS/Kobe's contract with the USWA,
covering approximately 2,300 employees, expires on August 1, 1999. USS/Kobe's
annual raw steel capability is 2.6 million tons with iron ore and coke provided
primarily by U. S. Steel. Raw steel production was approximately 1.7 million
tons in 1998.

     USX and Kobe also participate in another joint venture, PRO-TEC, which owns
and operates two hot-dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio. The first
galvanizing line commenced operations in early 1993. In November 1998,
operations commenced on a second hot-dip galvanized sheet line which expanded
PRO-TEC's capacity nearly 400,000 tons a year to 1.0 million tons annually. PRO-
TEC produced approximately 633,000 prime tons of galvanized steel in 1998 on the
original facility.

     USX and Worthington Industries Inc. participate in a joint venture known as
Worthington Specialty Processing which operates a steel processing facility in
Jackson, Michigan. The plant is operated by Worthington Industries, Inc. and is
dedicated to serving U. S. Steel customers. The facility contains state-of-the-
art technology capable of processing master steel coils into both slit coils and
sheared first operation blanks including rectangles, trapezoids, parallelograms
and chevrons. It is designed to meet specifications for the automotive,
appliance, furniture and metal door industries. The joint venture processes
material sourced by U. S. Steel, with a processing capacity of 600,000 tons
annually. In 1998, Worthington Specialty Processing processed approximately
411,000 tons.

     USX and Rouge Steel Company participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating
Company ("DESCO"), a joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility
located in Dearborn, Michigan. This facility enables U. S. Steel to further
supply the automotive demand for steel with corrosion resistant properties. The
facility can coat both sides of sheet steel with zinc or alloy coatings and has
the capability to coat one side with zinc and the other side with alloy.
Capacity is 870,000 tons of electrogalvanized steel annually, with availability
of the facility shared equally by the partners. In 1998, DESCO produced
approximately 861,000 tons of electrogalvanized steel.

     USX and Olympic Steel, Inc. formed a 50-50 joint venture in 1997 to process
laser welded sheet steel blanks at a facility in Van Buren, Michigan. The joint
venture conducts business as Olympic Laser Processing L.L.C.  Startup began in
1998.  Effective capacity is approximately 2.4 million parts annually.  Laser
welded blanks are used in the automotive industry for an increasing number of
body fabrication applications. U. S. Steel will be the venture's primary
customer and will be responsible for marketing the laser welded blanks.


 
     USX owns a 46% interest in Transtar, which in 1988 purchased the former
domestic transportation businesses of USX including railroads, a dock company,
USS Great Lakes Fleet, Inc. and Warrior & Gulf Navigation Company. Blackstone
Transportation Partners, L.P. and Blackstone Capital Partners L.P., both
affiliated with The Blackstone Group, together own 53% of Transtar, and the
senior management of Transtar owns the remaining 1%.

     USX and VSZ a.s., formed a 50-50 joint venture in Kosice, Slovakia, for the
production and marketing of tin mill products to serve an emerging Central
European market. In February 1998, the joint venture, doing business as VSZ U.
S. Steel, s. r.o., took over ownership and commenced operation of an existing
tin mill facility (VSZ's Ocel plant in Kosice) with an annual production
capacity of 140,000 metric tons.

     In 1997, USX entered into the Clairton 1314B Partnership, a strategic
partnership with two limited partners to acquire an interest in three coke
batteries at Clairton Works. The partnership has an annual coke production
capability of 1.5 million tons. In 1998, production of coke totaled 1.5 million
tons.  U. S. Steel, the general partner, owns a 9.78% interest in the Clairton
1314B Partnership.

     In 1997, USX, through its subsidiary, United States Steel Export Company de
Mexico, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V., and Intacero de Mexico, S.A.
de C.V., formed a joint venture for a slitting and warehousing facility in San
Luis Potosi, Mexico. The joint venture will conduct business as Acero Prime and
will service primarily the appliance industry. Construction was completed in
1998 with operations commencing in early 1999.

     USX owns a 26% interest in RTI (formerly RMI Titanium Company), a leading
producer of titanium metal products. RTI is accounted for under the equity
method (for additional information, see Note 5 to the U. S. Steel Group
Financial Statements). RTI is a publicly traded company listed on the New York
Stock Exchange. In December 1996, USX issued $117 million of 6 3/4% Exchangeable
Notes Due February 1, 2000 ("Indexed Debt") indexed to the price of RTI common
stock.  At maturity, USX must exchange these notes for shares of RTI common
stock, or redeem the notes for the equivalent amount of cash. For additional
information on Indexed Debt, see Note 17, footnote (d), to the USX Consolidated
Financial Statements on page U-20.

Property, Plant and Equipment Additions

     For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and
Liquidity - Capital Expenditures" for the U. S. Steel Group on page S-28.

Environmental Matters

     The U. S. Steel Group maintains a comprehensive environmental policy
overseen by the Public Policy Committee of the USX Board of Directors. The
Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that the U.
S. Steel Group's operating organizations maintain environmental compliance
systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The
Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of the U. S.
Steel Group, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various
environmental compliance programs. Also, the U. S. Steel Group, largely through
the American Iron and Steel Institute, continues its involvement in the
negotiation of various air, water, and waste regulations with federal, state and
local governments to assure the implementation of cost effective pollution
reduction strategies.

     The businesses of the U. S. Steel Group are subject to numerous federal,
state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act
("CAA") with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act ("CWA") with respect
to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") with
respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA")
with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances.  In addition,
all states where the


 
U. S. Steel Group operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters.
These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The
ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always
clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing
regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been promulgated or
in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and
regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased
capital, operating and compliance costs.

     For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and the cost of
compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies"
on page S-30 and "Legal Proceedings" for the U. S. Steel Group on page 40.

     The U. S. Steel Group has incurred and will continue to incur substantial
capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of
environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have
been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although
ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these
expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of
the U. S. Steel Group's products and services, operating results will be
adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated
steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus
does not believe that its relative position with regard to such other
competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and
regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for
compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on
U. S. Steel's competitive position with regard to domestic mini-mills and some
foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel,
which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In
addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number
of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its
production methods. For further information, see "Legal Proceedings" on page 40,
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation
and Contingencies" on page S-30.

Air

     The  CAA imposed more stringent limits on air emissions, established a
federally mandated operating permit program and allowed for enhanced civil and
criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on the U. S.
Steel Group is on the coke-making and primary steel-making operations of U. S.
Steel, as described in this section. The coal mining operations and sales of U.
S. Steel Mining may also be affected.

     The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development
and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology ("MACT") Standards.
The amendment to the Chrome Electroplating MACT to include the chrome processes
at Gary and Fairless and the Pickling MACT are expected in 1999. The EPA is
required to promulgate MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants and
taconite iron ore processing by November 15, 2000. The impact of these new
standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably
estimated until the rules are finalized.

     The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven
batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke
oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard
and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate ("LAER") standard.
Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards.
U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The
LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk-based
standards are expected to be adopted in 2020.  EPA is in the process of
developing the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks
which is scheduled to be finalized in 2000.  This MACT will impact U. S. Steel,
but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.

     The CAA also mandates the nationwide reduction of emissions of acid rain
precursors (sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides) from fossil fuel-fired
electrical utility plants. Specified emission reductions are to be achieved by
2000. Phase I began on January 1, 1995, and applies to 110 utility plants
specifically listed in the law. Phase II, which begins on January 1, 2000, will
apply to other utility plants which may be regulated under the law.


 
U. S. Steel, like all other electricity consumers, will be impacted by increased
electrical energy costs that are expected as electric utilities seek rate
increases to comply with the acid rain requirements.

     In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air
Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter which are significantly more
stringent than prior standards. EPA has issued a Nitrogen Oxide ("NOx") State
Implementation Plan ("SIP") Call to require certain states to develop plans to
reduce NOx emissions focusing on large utility and industrial boilers.  The
impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the
cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final revised standards and the
NOx SIP Call are issued and, more importantly, the states implement their State
Implementation Plans covering their standards.

     In 1998, all of the coal production of U. S. Steel Mining was metallurgical
coal, which is primarily used in coke production. While USX believes that the
new environmental requirements for coke ovens will not have an immediate effect
on U. S. Steel Mining, the requirements may encourage development of steelmaking
processes that reduce the usage of coke.  The new ozone and particulate matter
standards could be significant to U. S. Steel Mining, but the cost is not
capable of being reasonably estimated until rules are proposed or finalized.

Water

     The U. S. Steel Group maintains the necessary discharge permits as required
under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA,
and it is in compliance with such permits. In 1998, USX entered into a consent
decree with the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") which resolved alleged
violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollution Discharge Elimination
System ("NPDES") permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation
project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works.
Contemporaneously, USX entered into a consent decree with the public trustees
which resolves potential liability for natural resource damages on the same
section of the Grand Calumet River.  USX has agreed to pay civil penalties of
$2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural
resource damages assessment costs, which will be paid in 1999. In addition, USX
will pay the EPA $1 million at the end of the remediation project for future
monitoring costs.  During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with
EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with the
NPDES requirements.  The sediment remediation project is an approved final
interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works and is
expected to cost approximately $30 million over the next six years.  Estimated
remediation and monitoring costs for this project have been accrued.

Solid Waste

     The U. S. Steel Group continues to seek methods to minimize the generation
of hazardous wastes in its operations.  RCRA establishes standards for the
management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste
disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain
past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of
storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal
activities is discussed below under "Remediation."

Remediation

     A significant portion of the U. S. Steel Group's currently identified
environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and
present operating locations. These projects include the remediation of the Grand
Calumet River (discussed above), and the closure and remediation of permitted
hazardous and non-hazardous waste landfills.

     The U. S. Steel Group is also involved in a number of remedial actions
under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, and it is possible that
additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For
a discussion of remedial actions related to the U. S. Steel Group, see "Legal
Proceedings - U. S. Steel Group Environmental Proceedings."


 
Item 2. PROPERTIES

     The location and general character of the principal oil and gas properties,
plants, mines, pipeline systems and other important physical properties of USX
are described in the Item 1. Business section of this document. Except for oil
and gas producing properties, which generally are leased, or as otherwise
stated, such properties are held in fee. The plants and facilities have been
constructed or acquired over a period of years and vary in age and operating
efficiency. At the date of acquisition of important properties, titles were
examined and opinions of counsel obtained, but no title examination has been
made specifically for the purpose of this document. The properties classified as
owned in fee generally have been held for many years without any material
unfavorably adjudicated claim.

     Several steel production facilities and interests in two liquefied natural
gas tankers are leased. See "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements - 12. Leases" on page U-17.

     The basis for estimating oil and gas reserves is set forth in "Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Supplementary Information on Oil
and Gas Producing Activities - Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas
Reserves" on pages U-32 and U-33.

     USX believes that its surface and mineral rights covering reserves are
adequate to assure the basic legal right to extract the minerals, but may not
yet have obtained all governmental permits necessary to do so.

     Unless otherwise indicated, all reserves shown are as of December 31, 1998.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     USX is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened
legal actions, contingencies and commitments related to the Marathon Group and
the U. S. Steel Group involving a variety of matters, including laws and
regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included
below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could,
individually or in the aggregate, be material to the consolidated financial
statements and/or to the financial statements of the applicable group. However,
management believes that USX will remain a viable and competitive enterprise
even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved
unfavorably.

Marathon Group

Environmental Proceedings

     The following is a summary of proceedings attributable to the Marathon
Group that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 1998, under federal
and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to
predict accurately the ultimate outcome of these matters; however, management's
belief set forth in the first paragraph under Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" above
takes such matters into account.

     Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act ("CERCLA") and related state acts have been raised with respect to
the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to
expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault.
Potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") for each site include present and
former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances
at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of
various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of
identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of
determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most
desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and
the time period during which such costs may be incurred, USX is unable to
reasonably estimate its ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA.


 
     Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and/or
timing of completion of specific projects are forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not
limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that
these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of
completion of environmental projects may differ materially from those stated in
forward-looking statements.

     At December 31, 1998, USX had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17
CERCLA waste sites related to the Marathon Group. Based on currently available
information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, USX believes
that its liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with each of
these sites will be under $1 million per site, and most will be under $100,000.

     In addition, there are 8 waste sites related to the Marathon Group where
USX has received information requests or other indications that USX may be a PRP
under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to
confirm the existence of liability.

     There are also 92 additional sites, excluding retail marketing outlets,
related to the Marathon Group where remediation is being sought under other
environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are
seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Of these sites, 16 were
associated with properties conveyed to MAP by Ashland which has retained
liability for all costs associated with remediation. Based on currently
available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, the
Marathon Group believes that its liability for cleanup and remediation costs in
connection with 14 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 32
sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, 9 sites may
involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. In
addition, cleanup and remediation at one site, described in the following
paragraph is expected to cost more than $5 million. There are 20 sites with
insufficient information to estimate any remediation costs.

     There is one site that involves a remediation program in cooperation with
the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality at a closed and dismantled
refinery site located near Muskegon, Mich. During the next 10 to 20 years, the
Marathon Group anticipates spending between $8 million and $12 million at this
site. Expenditures for 1999 are expected to be approximately $570,000.
Additionally, negotiations are taking place with Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality to eventually perform a risk-based closure on this site.

     As discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental
Matters, Litigation and Contingencies, on page U-47, in October 1998, the
National Enforcement Investigations Center and Region V of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency ("U.S. EPA") conducted a multi-media inspection
of MAP's Detroit refinery. Subsequently, in November 1998, Region V and Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency conducted a multi-media inspection of MAP's
Robinson refinery. These inspections covered compliance with the Clean Air Act
(the Act, as amended by the 1990 Amendments, the "CAA") including New Source
Performance Standards, Prevention of Significant Deterioration, and the National
Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Benzene, the Clean Water Act
(Permit exceedances for the Waste Water Treatment Plant), reporting obligations
under the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and the handling of
process waste. Although MAP has been advised as to certain compliance issues,
including one contested Notice of Violation regarding MAP's Detroit refinery
discussed below, it is not known when complete findings on the results of the
inspections will be issued.

     In connection with the multi-media inspection at MAP's Detroit refinery, in
December 1998, U.S. EPA, Region V issued a Notice of Violation against the
refinery alleging that, as a result of "stack tests" conducted in 1992, 1995,
1997 and 1998, at the fluid catalytic cracking unit and the fluid catalytic
cracking unit carbon monoxide boiler, the refinery exceeded the emission limits
for particulate matter and sulfur dioxide thereby violating the CAA.

     In January 1997, a Notice of Violation ("NOV") was served by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency on the Marathon Group, including Marathon Oil
Company (Robinson Refinery and Brand Marketing, now operating organizations
within MAP), Marathon Pipe Line Company (now Marathon Ashland Pipe Line LLC) and


 
Emro Marketing Company (now Speedway SuperAmerica LLC), consolidating various
alleged violations of federal and state environmental laws and regulations
relating to air, water and soil contamination. Based on the ongoing negotiations
with Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, a penalty in excess of $100,000
may be assessed against each of these companies. Negotiations continue with the
State Attorney General's office and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
to resolve these alleged violations. In two of the matters, the State Attorney
General's office has instituted civil actions against Speedway SuperAmerica LLC
with regards to a UST site in Chicago, Illinois and violations of the CAA
dealing with the installation, testing and reporting of Stage II Vapor Recovery
Systems in certain station sites in Illinois.

     In October 1996, U.S. EPA Region 5 issued a Finding of Violation against
the Robinson refinery alleging that it does not qualify for an exemption under
the National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations pursuant to the
CAA, because the refinery's Total Annual Benzene releases exceed the limitation
of 10 megagrams per year, and as a result, the refinery is in violation of the
emission control, record keeping, and reports requirements. The Marathon Group
contends that it does qualify for the exemption. However, in February 1999, the
U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") in Chicago, Illinois, filed a civil complaint
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois alleging six
counts of violations of the CAA with respect to the benzene releases.

     In connection with the formation of MAP all three of the refineries owned
by Ashland Inc. ("Ashland") were conveyed effective January 1, 1998, to MAP or
its subsidiaries. Ashland reported in its 1997 Form 10-K, that during 1997, the
U.S. EPA completed comprehensive inspections of these three refineries, prior to
formation of MAP. These inspections evaluated Ashland's compliance with federal
environmental laws and regulations at those facilities. Ashland reported in its
1998 Form 10-K, that during 1998, the U.S. EPA and Ashland reached an agreement
with respect to the alleged violations discovered during those inspections.
Ashland reported that it agreed to pay $5.864 million in civil penalties.
Ashland also reported that it would under take specific remedial projects and
improvements at the refinery sites, as well as, a number of supplemental
environmental projects involving improvements to the facilities' operations.
Ashland reported that the total cost of these projects is expected to be $26
million. Under the terms of its agreements with MAP, Ashland has retained
responsibility for matters arising out of these inspections, including
commencement of work as soon as practical on certain enumerated projects.

Posted Price Litigation

     The Marathon Group, alone or with other energy companies, has been named in
a number of lawsuits in State and Federal courts alleging various causes of
action related to crude oil royalty payments based on posted prices, including
underpayment of royalty interests, underpayment of severance taxes, antitrust
violations, and violation of the Texas common purchaser statute.  Plaintiffs in
these actions include governmental entities and private entities or individuals,
and some seek class action status. All of these cases are in various stages of
preliminary activities. No class certification has been determined as to
Marathon in any case to date.

     During November 1997, Marathon and over twenty other defendants entered
into a proposed class settlement agreement covering antitrust and contract
claims from January 1, 1986, through September 30, 1997, excluding federal and
Indian royalty claims, common purchaser claims and severance tax claims. A new
settlement agreement was filed with the U.S. District Court in Texas on June 26,
1998, which replaces the November 1997 Settlement Agreement. The new settlement
agreement omits from the settlement class all State entities which receive
royalty payments and only covers private claimants. At a hearing on December 1,
1998, the Court preliminarily approved the new settlement agreement for the
group of defendants of which Marathon is a part. The new settlement agreement
settles all private claims, subject to opt-outs and a fairness hearing scheduled
on April 5, 1999, for a period from January 1, 1986 to September 30, 1998. If
the Court approves the settlement, Marathon's payment is not expected to be
material.

     Marathon has been named by private plaintiffs as a defendant, along with
other energy companies, in a lawsuit under the False Claims Act in the U.S.
District Court of Texas (Eastern District). On February 19, 1998, the U.S. DOJ
announced that it had intervened against four of the other energy-company
defendants named in such


 
action.  (U.S. ex rel., J. Benjamin Johnson et al. v. Exxon Company USA et al.).
Marathon's Motion seeking dismissal from this case has been denied.

     The Marathon Group intends to vigorously defend such remaining cases.

U. S. Steel Group

Legal Proceedings

B&LE Litigation

     In 1994, judgments against the Bessemer & Lake Erie Railroad ("B&LE") in
the amount of approximately $498 million, plus interest, in the Lower Lake Erie
Iron Ore Antitrust Litigation were upheld and have been paid. A trial in a
related lawsuit (Pacific Great Lakes Corporation v. B&LE) filed under the Ohio
Valentine Act in the Cuyahoga County (Ohio) Court of Common Pleas in September
1995, was concluded in February 1996, with a jury verdict finding no injury to
the plaintiff. The plaintiff appealed the verdict to the Cuyahoga County Court
of Appeals which, in 1998, affirmed the judgment of the lower court. A request
by the plaintiff to the Supreme Court of Ohio to accept an appeal in the case is
pending.

     The B&LE was a wholly owned subsidiary of USX throughout the period the
conduct occurred. It is now a subsidiary of Transtar, in which USX has a 46%
equity interest. USX is obligated to reimburse Transtar for judgments against
the B&LE in these matters.

Inland Steel Patent Litigation

     In July 1991, Inland Steel Company ("Inland") filed an action against USX
and another domestic steel producer in the U. S. District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging defendants had infringed two of
Inland's steel-related patents. Inland seeks monetary damages of up to
approximately $50 million and an injunction against future infringement. USX in
its answer and counterclaim alleges the patents are invalid and not infringed
and seeks a declaratory judgment to such effect. In May 1993, a jury found USX
to have infringed the patents. The District Court has yet to rule on the
validity of the patents. In July 1993, the U. S. Patent Office rejected the
claims of the two Inland patents upon a reexamination at the request of USX and
the other steel producer. A further request was submitted by USX to the Patent
Office in October 1993, presenting additional questions as to patentability
which was granted and consolidated for consideration with the original request.
In 1994, the Patent Office issued a decision rejecting all claims of the Inland
patents. Inland has appealed this decision to the Patent Office Board of
Appeals. An oral hearing was held in March 1997. No decision has been reached.

Asbestos Litigation

     USX has been and is a defendant in a large number of cases in which
plaintiffs allege injury resulting from exposure to asbestos. Many of these
cases involve multiple plaintiffs and most have multiple defendants. These
claims fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under the Jones Act and
general maritime law by employees of the Great Lakes or Intercoastal Fleets,
former operations of USX; (2) claims made by persons who did work at U. S. Steel
Group facilities; and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to
an electrical cable product formerly manufactured by USX. To date all actions
resolved have been either dismissed or settled for immaterial amounts. It is not
possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters; however, based
upon present knowledge, USX believes that the remaining actions will be
similarly resolved. This statement of belief is a forward-looking statement.
Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial
uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial
determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed
in the forward-looking statements.


 
Environmental Proceedings

     The following is a summary of the proceedings attributable to the U. S.
Steel Group that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 1998, under
federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not
possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters; however,
management's belief set forth in the first paragraph under "Item 3. Legal
Proceedings" above takes such matters into account.

     Claims under CERCLA and related state acts have been raised with respect to
the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to
expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. PRPs for
each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to
and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be
joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the
regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any
particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among
them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the
amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs
may be incurred, USX is unable to reasonably estimate its ultimate cost of
compliance with CERCLA.

     Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and/or
timing of completion of specific projects are forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not
limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that
these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of
completion of environmental projects may differ materially from those stated in
forward-looking statements.

     At December 31, 1998, USX had been identified as a PRP at a total of 29
CERCLA sites related to the U. S. Steel Group. Based on currently available
information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, USX believes
that its liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with twelve
of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site and ten will be
under $100,000.

     At the remaining seven sites, USX has no reason to believe that its share
in the remaining cleanup costs at any single site will exceed $5 million,
although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of USX's share in
any final allocation of such costs. Following is a summary of the status of
these sites:

     1. At USX's former Duluth, Minn. Works, USX spent a total of approximately
        $11 million through 1998. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota
        Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and
        Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. EPA has
        consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River
        and Interlake sites on the U.S. EPA's National Priorities List. The
        Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. USX is conducting an
        engineering study of the estuary sediments and the construction of a
        breakwater in the estuary. Depending upon the method and extent of
        remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and
        indeterminable.

     2. The Buckeye Reclamation Landfill, near St. Clairsville, Ohio, has been
        used at various times as a disposal site for coal mine refuse and
        municipal and industrial waste. USX is one of 15 PRPs that have
        indicated a willingness to enter into an agreed order with the U.S. EPA
        to perform a remediation of the site. Implementation of the remedial
        design plan, resulting in a long-term cleanup of the site, is estimated
        to cost approximately $28.5 million.

        One of the PRPs filed suit against the U.S. EPA, the Ohio Environmental
        Protection Agency, and 13 PRPs including USX. The U.S. EPA, in turn,
        filed suit against the PRPs to recover $1.5 million in oversight costs.
        In May 1996, USX entered into a final settlement agreement to resolve
        this litigation and the overall allocation. USX agreed to pay 4.8% of
        the estimated costs which would result in USX paying an additional
        amount of approximately $1.1 million over a two- to three-year period.
        To date USX has spent $350,000 at the site. Remediation will commence in
        1999.


 
     3. The D'Imperio/Ewan sites in New Jersey are waste disposal sites where a
        former USX subsidiary allegedly disposed of used paint and solvent
        wastes. USX has entered into a settlement agreement with the major PRPs
        at the sites which fixes USX's share of liability at approximately $1.2
        million, $578,000 of which USX has already paid. The balance, which is
        expected to be paid over the next several years, has been accrued.

     4. The Berks Associates/Douglassville Site ("Berks Site") is situated on a
        50-acre parcel located on the Schuylkill River in Berks County, Pa. Used
        oil and solvent reprocessing operations were conducted on the Berks Site
        between 1941 and 1986. The U.S. EPA undertook the dismantling of the
        Berks Site's former processing area and instituted a cost recovery suit
        in July 1991 against 30 former Berks Site customers, as PRPs to recover
        $8 million it expended in the process area dismantling. The 30 PRPs
        targeted by the U.S. EPA joined over 400 additional PRPs in the U.S.
        EPA's cost recovery litigation. On June 30, 1993, the U.S. EPA issued a
        unilateral administrative order to the original 30 PRPs ordering
        remediation which the U.S. EPA estimates will cost over $70 million. In
        June 1996, the PRPs proposed an alternative remedy estimated to cost
        approximately $20 million. USX expects its share of these costs to be
        approximately 7%. In September 1997, USX signed a consent decree to
        conduct a feasibility study at the site relating to the alternative
        remedy. This remedy has been submitted to the U.S. EPA and the DOJ for
        their approval.

        In February 1996, USX and other Berks Site PRPs were sued by the
        Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources ("PaDER") for $6
        million in past costs.

     5. In 1987 the California Department of Health Services ("DHS") issued a
        remedial action order for the GBF/Pittsburg landfill near Pittsburg,
        Calif. Records indicate that from 1972 through 1974, Pittsburg Works
        arranged for the disposal of approximately 2.6 million gallons of waste
        oil, sludge, caustic mud and acid which were eventually taken to this
        landfill for disposal. The DHS recently requested that an interim
        remediation of one of the plumes of site contamination be carried out as
        soon as possible. The Generators' Cooperative Group has agreed to fund
        the interim remediation which is expected to cost approximately
        $400,000, of which U. S. Steel paid $43,175. Total remediation costs are
        estimated to be between $18 million and $32 million. In June, 1997, the
        DHS issued a Remedial Action Plan. Work on the Remedial Action Plan has
        been deferred while a Group application for an alternative remedy is
        being reviewed. The GBF Respondents Group has initiated an action
        against parties implicated at the site who have failed to become
        involved in cleanup related activities. In 1998, USX entered into an
        agreement that establishes USX's liability among the site transporter
        and the other participating waste generators at 10.2%. Liability of the
        site owner has yet to be established.

     6. In 1988, USX and three other PRPs agreed to the issuance of an
        administrative order by the U.S. EPA to undertake emergency removal work
        at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The
        cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2
        million, of which USX paid $3.4 million. The U.S. EPA has indicated that
        further remediation of this site may be required in the future, but it
        has not conducted any assessment or investigation to support what
        remediation would be required. In October 1991, the PaDER placed the
        site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial
        Investigation and Feasibility Study ("RI/FS") which was issued in 1997.
        It is not possible to estimate accurately the cost of any remediation or
        USX's share in any final allocation formula; however, based on presently
        available information, USX may have been responsible for as much as 70%
        of the waste material deposited at the site. On October 10, 1995, the
        U.S. DOJ filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for Western
        Pennsylvania against USX and other Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co.
        defendants to recover alleged costs incurred at the site. In June 1996,
        USX agreed to pay $245,000 to settle the government's claims for costs
        against USX, American Recovery, and Carnegie Natural Gas. In 1996, USX
        filed a cost recovery action against parties who did not contribute to
        the cost of the removal activity at the site. USX has reached a
        settlement in principle with all of the parties except the site owner.
        In 1998, PaDER gave conditional approval of a conceptual plan to
        remediate the entire site.


 
     7. USX participated with 35 other PRPs in performing removal work at the
        Ekotek/Petrochem site in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of a 1991
        administrative order negotiated with the U.S. EPA. The removal work was
        completed in 1992 at a cost of over $9 million. In July 1992, the PRP
        Remediation Committee negotiated an administrative order on consent to
        perform a RI/FS of the site. The RI/FS was completed in 1995. A
        remediation plan estimated to cost $16.6 million was proposed by the
        U.S. EPA in 1995. In 1997, the U.S. EPA issued a revised Record of
        Decision with a remedial action estimated to cost $12.2 million. USX has
        contributed $875,000 through 1998 towards completing the removal work
        and performing the RI/FS. USX's proportionate share of costs presently
        being used by the PRP Remediation Committee is approximately 5% of the
        participating PRPs. The PRP Remediation Committee commenced cost
        recovery litigation against approximately 1,100 non-participating PRPs.
        Almost all of these defendants have settled their liability or joined
        the PRP Remediation Committee. In February 1997, the U.S. EPA issued an
        administrative order to USX and other PRPs to undertake the proposed
        remedial action and to reimburse approximately $5 million to de minimus
        PRPs who had earlier settled with the U.S. EPA on the basis of a
        substantially greater remedial cost estimate. On December 15, 1997, USX,
        along with forty other parties, signed a consent decree to clean up the
        site. Site cleanup will commence in 1999.

     In addition, there are 17 sites related to the U. S. Steel Group where USX
has received information requests or other indications that USX may be a PRP
under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to
confirm the existence of liability.

     There are also 34 additional sites related to the U. S. Steel Group where
remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and
state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or
litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases
preliminary and incomplete, the U. S. Steel Group believes that its liability
for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with six of these sites will be
under $100,000 per site, another five sites have potential costs between
$100,000 and $1 million per site, and eleven sites may involve remediation costs
between $1 million and $5 million.  Another of the 34 sites, the Grand Calumet
River remediation at Gary Works, is expected to have remediation costs in excess
of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 11
sites are not presently determinable.

     The following is a discussion of remediation activities at the U. S. Steel
Group's major facilities:

Gary Works

     In 1990 a consent decree was signed by USX which, among other things,
required USX to study and implement a program to remediate the sediment in a
portion of the Grand Calumet River. USX has developed a sediment remediation
plan for the section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As
proposed, this project would require five to six years to complete after
approval and would be followed by an environmental recovery validation. The
estimated program cost, which has been accrued, is approximately $30 million.
USX has entered into a consent decree with the U.S. EPA which provides for the
expanded sediment remediation program and resolves alleged violations of the
prior consent decree and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
since 1990. USX has to pay civil penalties of $2.9 million for alleged
violations of the Clean Water Act at Gary Works. In addition, USX has entered
into a consent decree with the public trustees to settle natural resource damage
claims for the portion of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works.
This settlement obligates USX to purchase and restore several parcels of
property and pay $1.5 million in past and future assessment and monitoring
costs.

     In October 1996, USX was notified by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management ("IDEM") acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S.
Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of
potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous
substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch
of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The Public Trustees
completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have
determined to perform a NRD Assessment. USX was identified as a PRP along with
15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. USX and
eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The Trustees notified the
public of


 
their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. The PRP group and the
trustees are working to coordinate trustee and PRP assessment activities.

     On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by
U.S. EPA addressing Corrective Action for Solid Waste Management Units
throughout Gary Works. This order requires USX to perform a RCRA Facility
Investigation ("RFI") and a Corrective Measure Study ("CMS") at Gary Works. The
Current Conditions Report, USX's first deliverable, was submitted to U.S. EPA on
January 31, 1999.

     IDEM issued NOVs to USS Gary Works in 1994 alleging various violations of
air pollution requirements. In early 1996, USX paid a $6 million penalty and
agreed to install additional pollution control equipment and programs costing
approximately $100 million to be installed and implemented over a period of
several years. In January 1998, USS Gary Works entered into negotiations of a
second Agreed Order with IDEM. The current draft requires increased monitoring
at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the replacement of the large bell and one hot
blast stove at the No. 8 Blast Furnace by December 31, 1999. The proposed
penalty is $1,037,000 which resolves outstanding NOV's from 1994 to present and
includes Stipulated Penalties from the Agreed Order signed in 1996. The second
Agreed Order is presently expected to be finalized by the end of the first
quarter 1999.

Clairton

     In 1987, USX and the PaDER entered into a consent Order to resolve an
incident in January 1985 involving the alleged unauthorized discharge of benzene
and other organic pollutants from Clairton Works in Clairton, Pa. That consent
Order required USX to pay a penalty of $50,000 and a monthly payment of $2,500
for five years. In 1990, USX and the PaDER reached agreement to amend the
consent Order. Under the amended Order, USX agreed to remediate the Peters Creek
Lagoon (a former coke plant waste disposal site); to pay a penalty of $300,000;
and to pay a monthly penalty of up to $1,500 each month until the former
disposal site is closed. Remediation costs have amounted to $2.2 million with
another $3.9 million presently projected to complete the project.

Fairless Works

     In January 1992, USX commenced negotiations with the U.S. EPA regarding the
terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to the RCRA, under which
USX would perform a RFI and a CMS at Fairless Works. A Phase I RFI report was
submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted
following U.S. EPA approval. The RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need
for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at Fairless Works.

Fairfield Works

     In December 1995, USX reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. EPA
and the DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A
consent decree was signed by USX and the United States and filed with the court
on December 11, 1997, under which USX will pay a civil penalty of $1 million,
implement two SEPs costing a total of $1.75 million and implement a RCRA
corrective action at the facility. One SEP was completed during 1998 at a cost
of $250,000.

Mon Valley Works/Edgar Thomson Plant

     In September 1997, USX received a draft consent decree addressing issues
raised in a NOV issued by the U.S. EPA in January 1997. The NOV alleged air
quality violations at U. S. Steel's Edgar Thomson Plant, which is part of Mon
Valley Works. The draft consent decree addressed these issues, including various
operational requirements, which U.S. EPA believes are necessary to bring the
plant into compliance. USX has begun implementing some of the compliance
requirements identified by U.S. EPA. USX is meeting with U.S. EPA and other
involved agencies to negotiate a consent decree and an appropriate penalty. USX
and the U.S. EPA have tentatively agreed to a civil penalty of $1 million and
the U.S. EPA is currently evaluating certain SEPs proposed by the company as a
means of further reducing the final negotiated civil penalty.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   Not applicable.


 
                                    PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   The principal market on which Marathon Stock and Steel Stock are traded is
the New York Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales
prices for the common stocks as reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last
two years is set forth in "Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data - Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page U-29.

   As of January 31, 1999, there were 76,871 registered holders of Marathon
Stock and 59,874 registered holders of Steel Stock.

   The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on Marathon Stock
and Steel Stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of
the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group respectively, although it has no
obligation under Delaware law to do so. In determining its dividend policy with
respect to Marathon Stock and Steel Stock, the Board will rely on the separate
financial statements of the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group,
respectively. The method of calculating earnings per share for Marathon Stock
and Steel Stock reflects the Board's intent that separately reported earnings
and the surplus of the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group, as determined
consistent with the USX Restated Certificate of Incorporation, are available for
payment of dividends to the respective classes of stock, although legally
available funds and liquidation preferences of these classes of stock do not
necessarily correspond with these amounts. Dividends on all classes of preferred
stock and USX common stock are limited to legally available funds of USX, which
are determined on the basis of the entire Corporation. Distributions on Marathon
Stock and Steel Stock would be precluded by a failure to pay dividends on any
series of preferred stock of USX. In addition, net losses of any group, as well
as dividends or distributions on any class of USX common stock or series of
preferred stock and repurchases of any class of USX common stock or preferred
stock at prices in excess of par or stated value, will reduce the funds of USX
legally available for payment of dividends on the two classes of USX common
stock as well as any preferred stock.

   Dividends on Steel Stock are further limited to the Available Steel Dividend
Amount. Net losses of the Marathon Group and distributions on Marathon Stock,
and on any preferred stock attributed to the Marathon Group will not reduce the
funds available for declaration and payment of dividends on Steel Stock unless
the legally available funds of USX are less than the Available Steel Dividend
Amount.

   See "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements - 22. Dividends" on page U-23.

   The Board has adopted certain policies with respect to the Marathon Group and
the U. S. Steel Group, including, without limitation, the intention to: (i)
limit capital expenditures of the U. S. Steel Group over the long term to an
amount equal to the internally generated cash flow of the U. S. Steel Group,
including funds generated by sales of assets of the U. S. Steel Group, (ii) sell
assets and provide services between the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group
only on an arm's-length basis and (iii) treat funds generated by sales of
Marathon Stock or Steel Stock and securities convertible into such stock as
assets of the Marathon Group or the U. S. Steel Group, as the case may be, and
apply such funds to acquire assets or reduce liabilities of the Marathon Group
or the U. S. Steel Group, respectively. These policies may be modified or
rescinded by action of the Board, or the Board may adopt additional policies,
without the approval of holders of the two classes of USX common stock, although
the Board has no present intention to do so.


 
Fiduciary Duties of the Board; Resolution of Conflicts

   Under Delaware law, the Board must act with due care and in the best interest
of all the stockholders, including the holders of the shares of each class of
USX common stock. The interests of the holders of any class of USX common stock
may, under some circumstances, diverge or appear to diverge. Examples include
the optional exchange of Steel Stock for Marathon Stock at the 10% premium, the
determination of the record date of any such exchange or for the redemption of
any Steel Stock; the establishing of the date for public announcement of the
liquidation of USX and the commitment of capital among the Marathon Group and
the U. S. Steel Group.

   Because the Board owes an equal duty to all common stockholders regardless of
class, the Board is the appropriate body to deal with these matters. In order to
assist the Board in this regard, USX has formulated policies to serve as
guidelines for the resolution of matters involving a conflict or a potential
conflict, including policies dealing with the payment of dividends, limiting
capital investment in the U. S. Steel Group over the long term to its internally
generated cash flow and allocation of corporate expenses and other matters. The
Board has been advised concerning the applicable law relating to the discharge
of its fiduciary duties to the common stockholders in the context of the
separate classes of USX common stock and has delegated to the Audit Committee of
the Board the responsibility to review matters which relate to this subject and
report to the Board. While the classes of USX common stock may give rise to an
increased potential for conflicts of interest, established rules of Delaware law
would apply to the resolution of any such conflicts. In general, under Delaware
law, a good faith determination by a disinterested and adequately informed Board
with respect to any such matter would be a defense to any claim of liability
made on behalf of the holders of any class of USX common stock. USX is aware of
no precedent concerning the manner in which such rules of Delaware law would be
applied in the context of its capital structure.


 
Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
        USX - Consolidated


- -----------
(a)  Consists of sales, dividend and affiliate income, gain on ownership change
     in MAP, net gains on disposal of assets, gain on affiliate stock offering
     and other income.
(b)  Excludes amounts for the Delhi Companies (sold in 1997), which have been
     reclassified as discontinued operations.  See Note 5 to the USX
     Consolidated Financial Statements, on page U-11.
(c)  See Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements, on page U-25.
 
 



 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (contd.)
USX - Consolidated (contd.)

- -----------
(a)  See Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements, on page U-25.
(b)  On January 26, 1998, USX redeemed all of the outstanding shares of Delhi
     Stock.  For additional information regarding Delhi Stock, see Income Per
     Common Share on page U-3, and Note 5 to the USX Consolidated Financial
     Statements, on page U-11.
(c)  Amounts represent combined fixed charges and earnings from continuing
     operations.


 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (contd.)
USX - Marathon Group


- -------------
(a)  Consists of sales, dividend and affiliate income, gain on ownership change
     in MAP, net gains on disposal of assets and other income.


 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (contd.)
USX - U. S. Steel  Group

- -----------
(a)  Consists of sales, dividend and affiliate income, net gains on disposal of
     assets, gain on affiliate stock offering and other income.
(b)  See Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements, on page U-25.


 
Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Indexes to Financial Statements, Supplementary Data, Management's
Discussion and Analysis, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk of USX Consolidated, the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group
are presented immediately preceding pages U-1, M-1 and S-1, respectively.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Indexes to Financial Statements, Supplementary Data, Management's
Discussion and Analysis, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk for USX Consolidated, the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group
are presented immediately preceding pages U-1, M-1 and S-1, respectively.

Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable


 
         USX


                Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Supplementary
                Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
 
                                                                Page
                                                                ----

Management's Report..........................................    U-1

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:

 Report of Independent Accountants............................   U-1

 Consolidated Statement of Operations.........................   U-2

 Consolidated Balance Sheet...................................   U-4

 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.........................   U-5

 Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity...............   U-6

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................   U-8

Selected Quarterly Financial Data.............................  U-29
                                                           
Principal Unconsolidated Affiliates...........................  U-30
                                                           
Supplementary Information.....................................  U-30
                                                           
Five-Year Operating Summary -- Marathon Group.................  U-35
                                                           
Five-Year Operating Summary -- U. S. Steel Group..............  U-37
                                                           
Five-Year Financial Summary...................................  U-38
                                                           
Management's Discussion and Analysis..........................  U-39
                                                           
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk....  U-61

 
                Management's Report

                The accompanying consolidated financial statements of USX
             Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (USX) are the responsibility
             of and have been prepared by USX in conformity with generally
             accepted accounting principles. They necessarily include some
             amounts that are based on best judgments and estimates. The
             consolidated financial information displayed in other sections of
             this report is consistent with these consolidated financial
             statements.

                       USX seeks to assure the objectivity and integrity of its
             financial records by careful selection of its managers, by
             organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of
             responsibility and by communications programs aimed at assuring
             that its policies and methods are understood throughout the
             organization.

                       USX has a comprehensive formalized system of internal
             accounting controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that
             assets are safeguarded and that financial records are reliable.
             Appropriate management monitors the system for compliance, and the
             internal auditors independently measure its effectiveness and
             recommend possible improvements thereto. In addition, as part of
             their audit of the consolidated financial statements, USX's
             independent accountants, who are elected by the stockholders,
             review and test the internal accounting controls selectively to
             establish a basis of reliance thereon in determining the nature,
             extent and timing of audit tests to be applied.

                       The Board of Directors pursues its oversight role in the
             area of financial reporting and internal accounting control through
             its Audit Committee. This Committee, composed solely of
             nonmanagement directors, regularly meets (jointly and separately)
             with the independent accountants, management and internal auditors
             to monitor the proper discharge by each of its responsibilities
             relative to internal accounting controls and the consolidated
             financial statements.

             

             Report of Independent Accountants

             To the Stockholders of USX Corporation:

             In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial
             statements appearing on pages U-2 through U-28 present fairly, in
             all material respects, the financial position of USX Corporation
             and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results
             of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
             years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with
             generally accepted accounting principles. These financial
             statements are the responsibility of USX's management; our
             responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
             statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
             statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
             which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
             reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
             free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
             test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
             financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
             significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
             overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
             audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.



             PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
             600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219-2794
             February 9, 1999

                                                                             U-1

 
             Consolidated Statement of Operations
             

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.

U-2

 

             See Note 24, for a description and computation of income per common
             share.
             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
             financial statements.

                                                                             U-3

 

             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
             financial statements.

U-4

 
             Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows


             See Note 20, for supplemental cash flow information.

             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
             financial statements.

                                                                             U-5

 
             Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity

             After the redemption of the USX -- Delhi Group Common Stock (Delhi
             Stock) on January 26, 1998 (Note 5), USX has two classes of common
             stock:  USX -- Marathon Group Common Stock (Marathon Stock) and USX
             U. S. -- Steel Group Common Stock (Steel Stock), which are intended
             to reflect the performance of the Marathon and U. S. Steel Groups,
             respectively. (See Note 10, for a description of the two Groups.)
             During 1998, USX issued 878,074 Exchangeable Shares (exchangeable
             solely into Marathon Stock) related to the purchase of a Canadian
             company. (See Note 3.)

                       On all matters where the holders of Marathon Stock and
             Steel Stock vote together as a single class, Marathon Stock has one
             vote per share and Steel Stock has a fluctuating vote per share
             based on the relative market value of a share of Steel Stock to the
             market value of a share of Marathon Stock. In the event of a
             disposition of all or substantially all the properties and assets
             of the U. S. Steel Group, USX must either distribute the net
             proceeds to the holders of the Steel Stock as a special dividend or
             in redemption of the stock, or exchange the Steel Stock for the
             Marathon Stock. In the event of liquidation of USX, the holders of
             the Marathon Stock and Steel Stock will share in the funds
             remaining for common stockholders based on the relative market
             capitalization of the respective Marathon Stock and Steel Stock to
             the aggregate market capitalization of both classes of common
             stock.


                        (Table continued on next page)

U-6

 
             
             
             

             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
             financial statements.

                                                                             U-7

 
                Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1. Summary of Principal Accounting Policies

             Principles applied in consolidation -- The consolidated
             financial statements include the accounts of USX Corporation and
             the majority-owned subsidiaries which it controls (USX).

                       Investments in unincorporated oil and gas joint ventures,
             undivided interest pipelines and jointly owned gas processing
             plants are consolidated on a pro rata basis.

                       Investments in other entities over which USX has
             significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of
             accounting and are carried at USX's share of net assets plus loans
             and advances.

                       Investments in other companies whose stock is publicly
             traded are carried at market value. The difference between the cost
             of these investments and market value is recorded in other
             comprehensive income (net of tax). Investments in companies whose
             stock has no readily determinable fair value are carried at cost.

             Use of estimates -- Generally accepted accounting principles
             require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
             the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
             contingent assets and liabilities at year-end and the reported
             amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Significant items
             subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying
             value of long-lived assets; valuation allowances for receivables,
             inventories and deferred income tax assets; environmental
             liabilities; liabilities for potential tax deficiencies and
             potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and
             obligations related to employee benefits. Additionally, certain
             estimated liabilities are recorded when management commits to a
             plan to close an operating facility or to exit a business activity.
             Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions
             used.

             Revenue recognition -- Revenues principally include sales,
             dividend and affiliate income, gains or losses on the disposal of
             assets and gains or losses from changes in ownership interests.

                       Sales are recognized when products are shipped or
             services are provided to customers. Consumer excise taxes on
             petroleum products and merchandise and matching crude oil and
             refined products buy/sell transactions settled in cash are included
             in both revenues and costs and expenses, with no effect on income.

                       Dividend and affiliate income includes USX's
             proportionate share of income from equity method investments and
             dividend income from other investments. Dividend income is
             recognized when dividend payments are received.

                       When long-lived assets depreciated on an individual basis
             are sold or otherwise disposed of, any gains or losses are
             reflected in income. Such gains or losses on the disposal of long-
             lived assets are recognized when title passes to the buyer and, if
             applicable, all significant regulatory approvals are received.
             Proceeds from disposal of long-lived assets depreciated on a group
             basis are credited to accumulated depreciation, depletion and
             amortization with no immediate effect on income.

                       Gains or losses from a change in ownership of a
             consolidated subsidiary or an unconsolidated affiliate are
             recognized in revenues in the period of change.

                Cash and cash equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents include
             cash on hand and on deposit and investments in highly liquid debt
             instruments with maturities generally of three months or less.

                Inventories -- Inventories are carried at lower of cost or
             market. Cost of inventories is determined primarily under the last-
             in, first-out (LIFO) method.

                Derivative instruments -- USX engages in commodity and currency
             risk management activities within the normal course of its
             businesses as an end-user of derivative instruments (Note 27).
             Management is authorized to manage exposure to price fluctuations
             related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural
             gas, refined products, nonferrous metals and electricity through
             the use of a variety of derivative financial and nonfinancial
             instruments. Derivative financial instruments require settlement in
             cash and include such instruments as over-the-counter (OTC)
             commodity swap agreements and OTC commodity options. Derivative
             nonfinancial instruments require or permit settlement by delivery
             of commodities and include exchange-traded commodity futures
             contracts and options. At times, derivative positions are closed,
             prior to maturity, simultaneous with the underlying physical
             transaction and the effects are recognized in income accordingly.
             USX's practice does not permit derivative positions to remain open
             if the underlying physical market risk has been removed. Derivative
             instruments relating to fixed price sales of equity production are
             marked-to-market in the current period and the related income
             effects are included

U-8

 
             within income from operations. All other changes in the market
             value of derivative instruments are deferred, including both closed
             and open positions, and are subsequently recognized in income, as
             sales or cost of sales, in the same period as the underlying
             transaction. Premiums on all commodity-based option contracts are
             initially recorded based on the amount paid or received; the
             options' market value is subsequently recorded as a receivable or
             payable, as appropriate. The margin receivable accounts required
             for open commodity contracts reflect changes in the market prices
             of the underlying commodity and are settled on a daily basis.

                       Forward exchange contracts are used to manage currency
             risks related to commitments for capital expenditures and existing
             assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. Gains or
             losses related to firm commitments are deferred and included with
             the underlying transaction; all other gains or losses are
             recognized in income in the current period as sales, cost of sales,
             interest income or expense, or other income, as appropriate.
             Forward exchange contract values are included in receivables or
             payables, as appropriate.

                       Recorded deferred gains or losses are reflected within
             other current and noncurrent assets or accounts payable and
             deferred credits and other liabilities. Cash flows from the use of
             derivative instruments are reported in the same category as the
             hedged item in the statement of cash flows.

             Exploration and development -- USX follows the successful efforts
             method of accounting for oil and gas exploration and development.

             Gas balancing -- USX follows the sales method of accounting for gas
             production imbalances.

             Long-lived assets -- Except for oil and gas producing properties,
             depreciation is generally computed on the straight-line method
             based upon estimated lives of assets. USX's method of computing
             depreciation for steel producing assets modifies straight-line
             depreciation based on the level of production. The modification
             factors range from a minimum of 85% at a production level below 81%
             of capability, to a maximum of 105% for a 100% production level. No
             modification is made at the 95% production level, considered the
             normal long-range level.

                       Depreciation and depletion of oil and gas producing
             properties are computed using predetermined rates based upon
             estimated proved oil and gas reserves applied on a units-of-
             production method.   Depletion of mineral properties, other than
             oil and gas, is based on rates which are expected to amortize cost
             over the estimated tonnage of minerals to be removed.

                       USX evaluates impairment of its oil and gas producing
             assets primarily on a field-by-field basis. Other assets are
             evaluated on an individual asset basis or by logical groupings of
             assets. Assets deemed to be impaired are written down to their fair
             value, including any related goodwill, using discounted future cash
             flows and, if available, comparable market values.

             Environmental liabilities -- USX provides for remediation costs
             and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and
             the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable.
             Generally, the timing of remediation accruals coincides with
             completion of a feasibility study or the commitment to a formal
             plan of action. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on
             estimates of known environmental exposure and are discounted in
             certain instances. If recoveries of remediation costs from third
             parties are probable, a receivable is recorded. Estimated
             abandonment and dismantlement costs of offshore production
             platforms are accrued based on production of estimated proved oil
             and gas reserves.

             Postemployment benefits -- USX recognizes an obligation to
             provide postemployment benefits, primarily for disability-related
             claims covering indemnity and medical payments. The obligation for
             these claims and the related periodic costs are measured using
             actuarial techniques and assumptions, including an appropriate
             discount rate, analogous to the required methodology for measuring
             pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Actuarial
             gains and losses are deferred and amortized over future periods.

             Insurance -- USX is insured for catastrophic casualty and
             certain property and business interruption exposures, as well as
             those risks required to be insured by law or contract. Costs
             resulting from noninsured losses are charged against income upon
             occurrence.

             Reclassifications -- Certain reclassifications of prior years'
             data have been made to conform to 1998 classifications.


2. New Accounting Standards

             The following accounting standards were adopted by USX:

                Reporting comprehensive income -- Effective January 1,
                1998, USX adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income". This Standard
                establishes requirements for reporting and display of
                comprehensive income and its components in the financial
                statements. Comprehensive income is defined as the change in
                equity of a business enterprise during a period from
                transactions and other events from nonowner sources. It includes

                                                                             U-9

 
                all changes in equity during a period except those resulting
                from investments by and distributions to owners. See required
                disclosures on page U-7.

                Disclosures of operating segments -- USX adopted in 1998,
                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,
                "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
                Information" (SFAS No. 131), which establishes new standards for
                reporting information about operating segments and related
                disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and
                major customers. The most significant new requirement of this
                Standard is that reportable operating segments be based on an
                enterprise's internally reported business segments. USX has
                complied with SFAS No. 131 by disclosing Group operating
                segments and other required data at Note 10.

                Disclosures of postretirement benefits -- USX adopted in 1998,
                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132, "Employers'
                Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits"
                (SFAS No. 132), which revises and standardizes the reporting
                requirements for postretirement benefits. However, the Standard
                does not change the measurement and recognition of those
                benefits. USX has complied with SFAS No. 132 by disclosing
                pension and other postretirement benefits at Note 11.

                Environmental remediation liabilities -- Effective January 1,
                1997, USX adopted American Institute of Certified Public
                Accountants Statement of Position No. 96-1, "Environmental
                Remediation Liabilities" (SOP 96-1), which provides additional
                interpretation of existing accounting standards related to
                recognition, measurement and disclosure of environmental
                remediation liabilities. As a result of adopting SOP 96-1, USX
                identified additional environmental remediation liabilities of
                $46 million, of which $28 million was discounted to a present
                value of $13 million and $18 million was not discounted.
                Assumptions used in the calculation of the present value amount
                included an inflation factor of 2% and an interest rate of 7%
                over a range of 22 to 30 years. Estimated receivables for
                recoverable costs related to adoption of SOP 96-1 were $4
                million. The net unfavorable effect of adoption on income from
                operations at January 1, 1997, was $27 million.

                Stock-based compensation -- Effective January 1, 1996, USX
                adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
                "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS No. 123), which
                establishes a fair value based method of accounting for employee
                stock-based compensation plans. The Standard permits companies
                to continue to apply the accounting provisions of Accounting
                Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
                Employees" (APB No. 25), provided certain disclosures are made.
                USX has complied with SFAS No. 123 by following the accounting
                provisions of APB No. 25 and including the required disclosures
                at Note 21.

                       In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
             issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
             "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
             (SFAS No. 133). This new Standard requires recognition of all
             derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair value. SFAS No.
             133 may result in additional volatility in both current period
             earnings and other comprehensive income as a result of recording
             recognized and unrecognized gains and losses resulting from changes
             in the fair value of derivative instruments. SFAS No. 133 requires
             a comprehensive review of all outstanding derivative instruments to
             determine whether or not their use meets the hedge accounting
             criteria. It is possible that there will be derivative instruments
             employed in our businesses that do not meet all of the designated
             hedge criteria and they will be reflected in income on a mark-to-
             market basis. Based upon the strategies currently employed by USX
             and the level of activity related to forward exchange contracts and
             commodity-based derivative instruments in recent periods, USX does
             not anticipate the effect of adoption to have a material impact on
             either financial position or results of operations. USX plans to
             adopt SFAS No. 133 effective January 1, 2000, as required.

3. Business Combinations

             In August 1998, Marathon Oil Company (Marathon) acquired
             Tarragon Oil and Gas Limited (Tarragon), a Canadian oil and gas
             exploration and production company. Securityholders of Tarragon
             received, at their election, Cdn$14.25 for each Tarragon share, or
             the economic equivalent in Exchangeable Shares of an indirect
             Canadian subsidiary of Marathon, which are exchangeable solely on a
             one-for-one basis into Marathon Stock. The purchase price included
             cash payments of $686 million, issuance of 878,074 Exchangeable
             Shares valued at $29 million and the assumption of $345 million in
             debt.

                       The Exchangeable Shares are exchangeable at the option of
             the holder at any time and automatically redeemable on August 11,
             2003 (and, in certain circumstances, as early as August 11, 2001).
             The holders of Exchangeable Shares are entitled to receive declared
             dividends equivalent to dividends declared from time to time by USX
             on Marathon Stock.

                       USX accounted for the acquisition using the purchase
             method of accounting. The 1998 results of operations include the
             operations of Marathon Canada Limited, formerly known as Tarragon,
             commencing August 12, 1998.

U-10

 
                       During 1997, Marathon and Ashland Inc. (Ashland) agreed
             to combine the major elements of their refining, marketing and
             transportation (RM&T) operations. On January 1, 1998, Marathon
             transferred certain RM&T net assets to Marathon Ashland Petroleum
             LLC (MAP), a new consolidated subsidiary. Also on January 1, 1998,
             Marathon acquired certain RM&T net assets from Ashland in exchange
             for a 38% interest in MAP. The acquisition was accounted for under
             the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was
             determined to be $1.9 billion, based upon an external valuation.
             The change in Marathon's ownership interest in MAP resulted in a
             gain of $245 million, which is included in 1998 revenues.

                       In connection with the formation of MAP, Marathon and
             Ashland entered into a Limited Liability Company Agreement dated
             January 1, 1998 (the LLC Agreement). The LLC Agreement provides for
             an initial term of MAP expiring on December 31, 2022 (25 years from
             its formation). The term will automatically be extended for ten-
             year periods, unless a termination notice is given by either party.

                       Also in connection with the formation of MAP, the parties
             entered into a Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill
             Agreement (the Put/Call Agreement). The Put/Call Agreement provides
             that at any time after December 31, 2004, Ashland will have the
             right to sell to Marathon all of Ashland's ownership interest in
             MAP, for an amount in cash and/or Marathon or USX debt or equity
             securities equal to the product of 85% (90% if equity securities
             are used) of the fair market value of MAP at that time, multiplied
             by Ashland's percentage interest in MAP. Payment could be made at
             closing, or at Marathon's option, in three equal annual
             installments, the first of which would be payable at closing. At
             any time after December 31, 2004, Marathon will have the right to
             purchase all of Ashland's ownership interests in MAP, for an amount
             in cash equal to the product of 115% of the fair market value of
             MAP at that time, multiplied by Ashland's percentage interest in
             MAP.

                       The following unaudited pro forma data for USX includes
             the results of operations of Tarragon for 1998 and 1997, and the
             Ashland RM&T net assets for 1997, giving effect to the acquisitions
             as if they had been consummated at the beginning of the years
             presented. The pro forma data is based on historical information
             and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have
             occurred nor is it necessarily indicative of future results of
             operations.

             /(a)/Excluding the pro forma inventory market valuation
                  adjustment, pro forma net income would have been $747 million
                  in 1998 and $1,151 million in 1997. Reported net income,
                  excluding the reported inventory market valuation adjustment,
                  would have been $778 million in 1998 and $1,167 million in
                  1997.

4. Transactions Between MAP and Ashland

                At December 31, 1998, MAP included in their cash and cash
             equivalents, a $103 million demand note invested with Ashland,
             which is payable March 15, 1999.

                       During 1998, MAP's petroleum products' sales to Ashland
             were $185 million and MAP's purchases of products and services from
             Ashland were $45 million. These transactions were conducted on an
             arm's-length basis.

                       At December 31, 1998, MAP had current receivables from
             Ashland of $22 million and current payables, including
             distributions payable, to Ashland of $106 million.

5. Discontinued Operations

                Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold its stock in Delhi Gas
             Pipeline Corporation and other subsidiaries of USX that comprised
             all of the Delhi Group (Delhi Companies). The transaction involved
             a gross purchase price of $762 million. Under the USX Restated
             Certificate of Incorporation (USX Certificate), USX was required to
             elect one of three options to return the value of the net proceeds
             received in the transaction to the holders of shares in Delhi Stock
             (Delhi shareholders). Of the three options, USX elected to use the
             net proceeds of $195 million, or $20.60 per share, to redeem all
             shares of Delhi Stock. The net proceeds were distributed to the
             Delhi shareholders on January 26, 1998. After the redemption,
             50,000,000 shares of Delhi Stock remain authorized but unissued.

                       The sale of the Delhi Companies resulted in a gain on
             disposal of $81 million, net of $206 million income taxes.

                       As of December 31, 1997, the balance sheet of the Delhi
             Group consisted of cash restricted for the redemption of Delhi
             Stock of $195 million and redeemable Delhi Stock in an equal and
             offsetting amount.

                                                                            U-11

 
                       The financial results of the Delhi Group have been
             reclassified as discontinued operations for the 1997 and 1996
             periods presented in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and
             are summarized as follows:

             /(a)/Represents ten months of operations.
 
6. Revenues

             The items below are included in revenues and costs and expenses,
             with no effect on income.

 
 
7. Other Items



                Foreign currency transactions

                       For 1998, 1997 and 1996, the aggregate foreign currency
                       transaction gains (losses) included in determining income
                       from continuing operations were $13 million, $4 million
                       and $(24) million, respectively.

8. Extraordinary Loss

                On December 30, 1996, USX irrevocably called for redemption on
                January 30, 1997, $120 million of 8-1/2% Sinking Fund
                Debentures, resulting in a 1996 extraordinary loss of $9
                million, net of a $5 million income tax benefit.

9. Gain on Affiliate Stock Offering

                In 1996, an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of RTI International
                Metals, Inc. (RTI) (formerly RMI Titanium Company) common stock
                was sold in a public offering at a price of $18.50 per share and
                total net proceeds of $121 million. Included in the offering
                were 2.3 million shares sold by USX for net proceeds of $40
                million. USX recognized a total pretax gain of $53 million, of
                which $34 million was attributable to the shares sold by USX and
                $19 million was attributable to the increase in value of USX's
                investment as a result of the shares sold by RTI. The income tax
                effect related to the total gain was $19 million. As a result of
                this transaction, USX's ownership in RTI decreased from
                approximately 50% to 27%. USX continues to account for its
                investment in RTI under the equity method of accounting.

U-12

 
10. Group and Segment Information

After the redemption of the Delhi Stock on January 26, 1998, USX has two classes
of common stock: Marathon Stock and Steel Stock, which are intended to reflect
the performance of the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group, respectively.

A description of each group and its products and services is as follows:

   Marathon Group -- The Marathon Group includes Marathon Oil Company and
   certain other subsidiaries of USX. Marathon Group revenues as a percentage of
   total consolidated USX revenues were 78% in 1998, 69% in 1997 and 71% in
   1996. For information on sales by product line, see table of revenues on page
   U-49 of Management's Discussion and Analysis.

   U. S. Steel Group -- The U. S. Steel Group consists of U. S. Steel, the
   largest domestic integrated steel producer. U. S. Steel Group revenues as a
   percentage of total consolidated USX revenues were 22% in 1998, 31% in 1997
   and 29% in 1996. For information on sales by product line, see table of
   revenues on page U-56 of Management's Discussion and Analysis.


Group Operations:



Operating Segments:

USX's reportable operating segments are business units within the Marathon and
U. S. Steel Groups, each providing their own unique products and services. Each
operating segment is independently managed and requires different technology and
marketing strategies. Segment income represents income from operations allocable
to operating segments. The following items included in income from operations
are not allocated to operating segments:

     .  Gain on ownership change in MAP

     .  Gain on affiliate stock offering

     .  Pension credits associated with pension plan assets and liabilities
        allocated to pre-1987 retirees and former businesses

     .  Certain costs related to former U. S. Steel Group business activities

     .  Certain general and administrative costs related to all Marathon Group
        operating segments in excess of amounts billed to MAP under service
        contracts and amounts charged out to operating segments under Marathon's
        shared services procedures

     .  USX corporate general and administrative costs. These costs primarily
        consist of employment costs including pension effects, professional
        services, facilities and other related costs associated with corporate
        activities.

     .  Inventory market valuation adjustments

     .  Certain other items not allocated to operating segments for business
        performance reporting purposes

                                                                            U-13

 
The Marathon Group's operations consists of three reportable operating segments:
1) Exploration and Production -- explores for and produces crude oil and natural
gas on a worldwide basis; 2) Refining, Marketing and Transportation -- refines,
markets and transports crude oil and petroleum products, primarily in the
Midwest and southeastern United States through MAP; and 3) Other Energy Related
Businesses. Other Energy Related Businesses is an aggregation of two segments
which fall below the quantitative reporting thresholds: 1) Natural Gas and Crude
Oil Marketing and Transportation -- markets and transports its own and third-
party natural gas and crude oil in the United States; and 2) Power Generation --
develops, constructs and operates independent electric power projects worldwide.
The U. S. Steel Group consists of a single operating segment, U. S. Steel. U. S.
Steel is engaged in the production and sale of steel mill products, coke and
taconite pellets; the management of mineral resources; domestic coal mining;
engineering and consulting services; and real estate development and management.


/(a)/Intersegment and intergroup sales and transfers were conducted on an
     arm's-length basis.
/(b)/Differences between segment totals and consolidated totals represent
     amounts included in administrative expenses and, in 1998, international
     exploration and production property impairments.
/(c)/Differences between segment totals and consolidated totals represent
     unallocated pension credits and amounts included in administrative
     expenses.
/(d)/Differences between segment totals and consolidated totals represent
     amounts related to corporate administrative activities and, in 1997 and
     1996, discontinued operations.
/(e)/Differences between segment totals and consolidated totals represent
     amounts related to corporate administrative activities.

U-14

 
  The following schedule reconciles segment revenues and income to amounts
reported in the Marathon and U. S. Steel Groups' financial statements:


/(a)/Represents international exploration and production property impairments,
     suspended exploration well write-offs, gas contract settlement and MAP
     transition charges in 1998. Represents net gains on certain asset sales,
     charges for withdrawal from a nonprofit oil spill response group and
     certain state tax adjustments in 1996.

Geographic Area:
  The information below summarizes the operations in different geographic areas.
Transfers between geographic areas are at prices which approximate market.

/(a)/Includes property, plant and equipment and investments in affiliates.

                                                                            U-15

 
11. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

             USX has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering
             substantially all employees. Benefits under these plans are
             primarily based upon years of service and final average pensionable
             earnings, or a minimum benefit based upon years of service,
             whichever is greater. In addition, pension benefits based upon a
             percent of total career pensionable earnings cover certain
             participating salaried employees.

                       USX also has defined benefit retiree health and life
             insurance plans (other benefits) covering most employees upon their
             retirement. Health benefits are provided, for the most part,
             through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit
             provisions subject to various cost sharing features. Life insurance
             benefits are provided to certain nonunion and union represented
             retiree beneficiaries primarily based on employees' annual base
             salary at retirement. For most union retirees, benefits are
             provided for the most part based on fixed amounts negotiated in
             labor contracts with the appropriate unions. Except for certain
             life insurance benefits paid from reserves held by insurance
             carriers and benefits required to be funded by union contracts,
             most other benefits have not been prefunded.





U-16

 


             /(a)/Represents payments to a multiemployer health care benefit
                  plan created by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act
                  of 1992 based on assigned beneficiaries receiving benefits.
                  The present value of this unrecognized obligation is broadly
                  estimated to be $103 million, including the effects of future
                  medical inflation, and this amount could increase if
                  additional beneficiaries are assigned.
             /(b)/Represents costs of the U. S. Steel Group 1998 voluntary early
                  retirement program.



                       For measurement purposes, an 8% annual rate of increase
             in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed
             for 1999. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5% for 2005
             and remain at that level thereafter.

                       A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
             trend rates would have the following effects:

12. Leases

                Future minimum commitments for capital leases (including sale-
             leasebacks accounted for as financings) and for operating leases
             having remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year
             are as follows:
 

               Operating lease rental expense from continuing operations:



                       USX leases a wide variety of facilities and equipment
             under operating leases, including land and building space, office
             equipment, production facilities and transportation equipment. Most
             long-term leases include renewal options and, in certain leases,
             purchase options. In the event of a change in control of USX, as
             defined in the agreements, or certain other circumstances,
             operating lease obligations totaling $115 million may be declared
             immediately due and payable.

                                                                            U-17

 
13. Income Taxes

             Provisions (credits) for estimated income taxes on income from
             continuing operations were:
 
 
               A reconciliation of federal statutory tax rate (35%) to total
             provisions from continuing operations follows:

 

                 Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulted from the
                 following:


             /(a)/USX expects to generate sufficient future taxable income to
                  realize the benefit of its deferred tax assets. In addition,
                  the ability to realize the benefit of foreign tax credits is
                  based upon certain assumptions concerning future operating
                  conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil prices),
                  income generated from foreign sources and USX's tax profile in
                  the years that such credits may be claimed.

                       The consolidated tax returns of USX for the years 1990
             through 1994 are under various stages of audit and administrative
             review by the IRS. USX believes it has made adequate provision for
             income taxes and interest which may become payable for years not
             yet settled.

                       Pretax income (loss) from continuing operations included
             $(75) million, $250 million and $339 million attributable to
             foreign sources in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                       Undistributed earnings of certain consolidated foreign
             subsidiaries at December 31, 1998, amounted to $132 million. No
             provision for deferred U.S. income taxes has been made for these
             subsidiaries because USX intends to permanently reinvest such
             earnings in those foreign operations. If such earnings were not
             permanently reinvested, a deferred tax liability of $46 million
             would have been required.

U-18

 
14. Sales of Receivables

                USX has an agreement (the program) at December 31, 1998, to sell
             an undivided interest in certain accounts receivable of the U. S.
             Steel Group. Payments are collected from the sold accounts
             receivable; the collections are reinvested in new accounts
             receivable for the buyers; and a yield, based on defined short-term
             market rates, is transferred to the buyers. At December 31, 1998,
             the amount sold under the program that had not been collected was
             $320 million, which will be forwarded to the buyers at the end of
             the agreement in 1999, or in the event of earlier contract
             termination. If USX does not have a sufficient quantity of eligible
             accounts receivable to reinvest in for the buyers, the size of the
             program will be reduced accordingly. The amounts sold under the
             current and previous programs averaged $347 million, $705 million
             and $740 million for years 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. (For
             most of 1997 and for the year 1996, the Marathon and Delhi Groups
             had a separate accounts receivable program that was terminated in
             late 1997.) The buyers have rights to a pool of receivables that
             must be maintained at a level of at least 115% of the program's
             size. USX does not generally require collateral for accounts
             receivable, but significantly reduces credit risk through credit
             extension and collection policies, which include analyzing the
             financial condition of potential customers, establishing credit
             limits, monitoring payments and aggressively pursuing delinquent
             accounts. In the event of a change in control of USX, USX may be
             required to forward to the buyers, payments collected on the sold
             accounts receivable.
 
15. Investments and Long-Term Receivables

 
                 Summarized financial information of affiliates accounted for
             by the equity method of accounting follows:




                       Dividends and partnership distributions received from
             equity affiliates were $42 million in 1998, $34 million in 1997 and
             $49 million in 1996.

                       USX purchases from equity affiliates totaled $395
             million, $461 million and $509 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
             respectively. USX sales to equity affiliates totaled $725 million,
             $812 million and $830 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

16. Short-Term Credit Agreement

             USX has a short-term credit agreement totaling $125 million at
             December 31, 1998. Interest is based on the bank's prime rate or
             London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and carries a facility fee
             of .15%. Certain other banks provide short-term lines of credit
             totaling $150 million which require a .125% fee or maintenance of
             compensating balances of 3%. At December 31, 1998, there were $40
             million in borrowings against these facilities. USX had other
             outstanding short-term borrowings of $105 million.

                                                                            U-19

 
17. Long-Term Debt



             /(a)/An amended agreement which terminates in August 2001, provides
                  for borrowing under a $2,350 million revolving credit
                  facility. Interest is based on defined short-term market
                  rates. During the term of this agreement, USX is obligated to
                  pay a variable facility fee on total commitments, which was
                  .15 % at December 31, 1998.
             /(b)/These obligations were redeemed during 1998.
             /(c)/At December 31, 1998, USX had outstanding obligations relating
                  to Environmental Improvement Bonds in the amount of $159
                  million, which were supported by letter of credit arrangements
                  that could become short-term obligations under certain
                  circumstances.
             /(d)/The indexed debt represents 6-3/4% exchangeable notes due
                  February 1, 2000, in the principal amount of $117 million or
                  $21.375 per note, which was the market price per share of RTI
                  common stock on November 26, 1996. At maturity, the principal
                  amount of each note will be mandatorily exchanged by USX into
                  shares of RTI common stock (or, at USX's option, the cash
                  equivalent and/or such other consideration as permitted or
                  required by the terms of the notes) at a defined exchange
                  rate, which is based on the average market price of RTI common
                  stock valued in January 2000. The carrying value of the notes
                  is adjusted quarterly to settlement value and any resulting
                  adjustment is charged or credited to income and included in
                  net interest and other financial costs.
             /(e)/In 1998, MAP entered into a revolving credit facility for
                  $100 million that terminates in July 1999 and a $400 million
                  revolving credit facility that terminates in July 2003.
                  Interest is based on defined short-term market rates for both
                  facilities. During the terms of the agreements, MAP is
                  obligated to pay a variable facility fee on total commitments.
                  At December 31, 1998, the facility fee was .10% for the $100
                  million facility and .125% for the $400 million facility. At
                  December 31, 1998, the unused and available credit was $500
                  million. In the event that MAP defaults on indebtedness (as
                  defined in the agreement) in excess of $100 million, USX has
                  guaranteed the payment of any outstanding obligations.
             /(f)/The guaranteed loan was used to fund a portion of the costs in
                  connection with the development of the East Brae Field and the
                  SAGE pipeline in the North Sea. A portion of proceeds from a
                  long-term gas sales contract is dedicated to loan service
                  under certain circumstances. Prepayment of the loan may be
                  required under certain situations, including events impairing
                  the security interest.
             /(g)/Required payments of long-term debt for the years 2000-2003
                  are $127 million, $981 million, $209 million and $186 million,
                  respectively.
             /(h)/In the event of a change in control of USX, as defined in the
                  related agreements, debt obligations totaling $3,610 million
                  may be declared immediately due and payable. The principal
                  obligations subject to such a provision are Notes payable
                  $2,267 million; and Guaranteed Loan $245 million. In such
                  event, USX may also be required to either repurchase the
                  leased Fairfield slab caster for $108 million or provide a
                  letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation.


                       Property, plant and equipment includes gross assets
             acquired under capital leases (including sale-leasebacks accounted
             for as financings) of $108 million at December 31, 1998, and $134
             million at December 31, 1997; related amounts in accumulated
             depreciation, depletion and amortization were $77 million and $94
             million, respectively.

U-20

 
19. Inventories



                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the LIFO method accounted
             for 90% and 92%, respectively, of total inventory value. Current
             acquisition costs were estimated to exceed the above inventory
             values at December 31 by approximately $310 million and $300
             million in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                       The inventory market valuation reserve reflects the
             extent that the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and refined
             products inventories exceeds net realizable value. The reserve is
             decreased to reflect increases in market prices and inventory
             turnover and increased to reflect decreases in market prices.
             Changes in the inventory market valuation reserve result in noncash
             charges or credits to costs and expenses.
 
20. Supplemental Cash Flow Information



21. Stock-Based Compensation Plans

                The 1990 Stock Plan, as amended and restated, authorizes the
             Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to grant
             restricted stock, stock options and stock appreciation rights to
             key management employees. Such employees are generally granted
             awards of the class of common stock intended to reflect the
             performance of the group(s) to which their work relates. Up to .5
             percent of the outstanding Marathon Stock and .8 percent of the
             outstanding Steel Stock, as determined on December 31 of the
             preceding year, are available for grants during each calendar year
             the 1990 Plan is in effect. In addition, awarded shares that do not
             result in shares being issued are available for subsequent grant,
             and any ungranted shares from prior years' annual allocations are
             available for subsequent grant during the years the 1990 Plan is in
             effect. As of December 31, 1998, 8,141,990 Marathon Stock shares
             and 2,524,613 Steel Stock shares were available for grants in 1999.
             The Stock-Based Compensation Plans' activity below includes the
             Delhi Stock prior to its January 1998 redemption (Note 5).

                       Restricted stock represents stock granted for such
             consideration, if any, as determined by the Compensation Committee,
             subject to provisions for forfeiture and restricting transfer.
             Those restrictions may be removed as conditions such as
             performance, continuous service and other criteria are met.
             Restricted stock is issued at the market price per share at the
             date of grant and vests over service periods that range from one to
             five years.

                                                                            U-21

 
                       Deferred compensation is charged to stockholders' equity
             when the restricted stock is granted and subsequently adjusted for
             changes in the market value of the underlying stock. The deferred
             compensation is expensed over the balance of the vesting period and
             adjusted if conditions of the restricted stock grant are not met.

                       The following table presents information on restricted
             stock grants:


                       Stock options represent the right to purchase shares of
             Marathon Stock, Steel Stock or Delhi Stock at the market value of
             the stock at date of grant. Certain options contain the right to
             receive cash and/or common stock equal to the excess of the fair
             market value of shares of common stock, as determined in accordance
             with the plan, over the option price of shares. Stock options vest
             after a one-year service period and expire 10 years from the date
             they are granted.
                The following is a summary of stock option activity:


             /(a)/Weighted-average exercise price
             /(b)/Redemption price

                       The following table represents stock options at December
             31, 1998, excluding the Delhi Stock, which was redeemed on January
             26, 1998:


                       During 1996, USX adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for
             Stock-Based Compensation, as discussed in Note 2, and elected to
             continue to follow the accounting provisions of APB No. 25. Actual
             stock-based compensation expense (credit) was $(3) million in 1998,
             $30 million in 1997 and $8 million in 1996. Incremental
             compensation expense, as determined under SFAS No. 123, was not
             material ($.02 or less per share for all years presented).
             Therefore, pro forma net income and earnings per share data have
             been omitted.

                       Effective January 1, 1997, USX created a deferred
             compensation plan for non-employee directors of its Board of
             Directors. The plan permits participants to defer some or all of
             their annual retainers in the form of common stock units or cash.
             Common stock units are book entry units equal in value to a share
             of Marathon Stock or Steel Stock. Deferred stock benefits are
             distributed in shares of common stock within five business days
             after a participant leaves the Board of Directors. During 1998 and
             1997, no shares of common stock were distributed.

U-22

 
22. Dividends

                In accordance with the USX Certificate, dividends on the
             Marathon Stock and Steel Stock are limited to the legally available
             funds of USX. Net losses of any Group, as well as dividends and
             distributions on any class of USX Common Stock or series of
             preferred stock and repurchases of any class of USX Common Stock or
             series of preferred stock at prices in excess of par or stated
             value, will reduce the funds of USX legally available for payment
             of dividends on all classes of Common Stock. Subject to this
             limitation, the Board of Directors intends to declare and pay
             dividends on the Marathon Stock and Steel Stock based on the
             financial condition and results of operations of the related group,
             although it has no obligation under Delaware law to do so. In
             making its dividend decisions with respect to each of the Marathon
             Stock and Steel Stock, the Board of Directors considers, among
             other things, the long-term earnings and cash flow capabilities of
             the related group as well as the dividend policies of similar
             publicly traded companies.

                       Dividends on the Steel Stock are further limited to the
             Available Steel Dividend Amount. At December 31, 1998, the
             Available Steel Dividend Amount was at least $3,336 million. The
             Available Steel Dividend Amount will be increased or decreased, as
             appropriate, to reflect U. S. Steel Group net income, dividends,
             repurchases or issuances with respect to the Steel Stock and
             preferred stock attributed to the U. S. Steel Group and certain
             other items.

23. Stockholder Rights Plan

                USX's Board of Directors has adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan
             and declared a dividend distribution of one right for each
             outstanding share of Marathon Stock and Steel Stock referred to
             together as "Voting Stock." Each right becomes exercisable, at a
             price of $120, when any person or group has acquired, obtained the
             right to acquire or made a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more
             of the total voting power of the Voting Stock, except pursuant to a
             qualifying all-cash tender offer for all outstanding shares of
             Voting Stock, which is accepted with respect to shares of Voting
             Stock representing a majority of the voting power other than Voting
             Stock beneficially owned by the offeror. Each right entitles the
             holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase one
             one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Preferred Stock or,
             upon the acquisition by any person of 15% or more of the total
             voting power of the Voting Stock, Marathon Stock or Steel Stock (as
             the case may be) or other property having a market value of twice
             the exercise price. After the rights become exercisable, if USX is
             acquired in a merger or other business combination where it is not
             the survivor, or if 50% or more of USX's assets, earnings power or
             cash flow are sold or transferred, each right entitles the holder
             to purchase common stock of the acquiring entity having a market
             value of twice the exercise price. The rights and exercise price
             are subject to adjustment, and the rights expire on October 9,
             1999, or may be redeemed by USX for one cent per right at any time
             prior to the point they become exercisable. Under certain
             circumstances, the Board of Directors has the option to exchange
             one share of the respective class of Voting Stock for each
             exercisable right.

24. Income Per Common Share

                The method of calculating net income per share for the Marathon
             Stock, the Steel Stock and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi
             Stock reflects the USX Board of Directors' intent that the
             separately reported earnings and surplus of the Marathon Group, the
             U. S. Steel Group and the Delhi Group, as determined consistent
             with the USX Certificate, are available for payment of dividends on
             the respective classes of stock, although legally available funds
             and liquidation preferences of these classes of stock do not
             necessarily correspond with these amounts. The financial statements
             of the Marathon Group, the U. S. Steel Group and the Delhi Group,
             taken together, include all accounts which comprise the
             corresponding consolidated financial statements of USX.

                       Basic net income per share is calculated by adjusting net
             income for dividend requirements of preferred stock and, in 1997,
             the noncash credit on exchange of preferred stock and is based on
             the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.

                       Diluted net income per share assumes conversion of
             convertible securities for the applicable periods outstanding and
             assumes exercise of stock options, provided in each case, the
             effect is not antidilutive.

                                                                            U-23

 


U-24

 
25. Preferred Stock of Subsidiary and Trust Preferred Securities

             USX Capital LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of USX, sold
             10,000,000 shares (carrying value of $250 million) of 8-3/4%
             Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Shares (MIPS) (liquidation
             preference of $25 per share) in 1994. Proceeds of the issue were
             loaned to USX. USX has the right under the loan agreement to extend
             interest payment periods for up to 18 months, and as a consequence,
             monthly dividend payments on the MIPS can be deferred by USX
             Capital LLC during any such interest payment period. In the event
             that USX exercises this right, USX may not declare dividends on any
             share of its preferred or common stocks. The MIPS are redeemable at
             the option of USX Capital LLC and subject to the prior consent of
             USX, in whole or in part from time to time, for $25 per share on or
             after March 31, 1999, and will be redeemed from the proceeds of any
             repayment of the loan by USX. In addition, upon final maturity of
             the loan, USX Capital LLC is required to redeem the MIPS. The
             financial costs are included in net interest and other financial
             costs.

                       In 1997, USX exchanged approximately 3.9 million 6.75%
             Convertible Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (Trust Preferred
             Securities) of USX Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory business
             trust (Trust), for an equivalent number of shares of its 6.50%
             Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (6.50% Preferred Stock)
             (Exchange). The Exchange resulted in the recording of Trust
             Preferred Securities at a fair value of $182 million and a noncash
             credit to Retained Earnings of $10 million.

                       USX owns all of the common securities of the Trust, which
             was formed for the purpose of the Exchange. (The Trust Common
             Securities and the Trust Preferred Securities are together referred
             to as the Trust Securities.) The Trust Securities represent
             undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the
             Trust, which consist solely of USX 6.75% Convertible Junior
             Subordinated Debentures maturing March 31, 2037 (Debentures),
             having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate initial
             liquidation amount ($50.00 per security and $203 million in total)
             of the Trust Securities issued by the Trust. Interest and principal
             payments on the Debentures will be used to make quarterly
             distributions and to pay redemption and liquidation amounts on the
             Trust Preferred Securities. The quarterly distributions, which
             accumulate at the rate of 6.75% per annum on the Trust Preferred
             Securities and the accretion from fair value to the initial
             liquidation amount, are charged to income and included in net
             interest and other financial costs.

                       Under the terms of the Debentures, USX has the right to
             defer payment of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and, as
             a consequence, monthly distributions on the Trust Preferred
             Securities will be deferred during such period. If USX exercises
             this right, then, subject to limited exceptions, it may not pay any
             dividend or make any distribution with respect to any shares of its
             capital stock.

                       The Trust Preferred Securities are convertible at any
             time prior to the close of business on March 31, 2037 (unless such
             right is terminated earlier under certain circumstances) at the
             option of the holder, into shares of Steel Stock at a conversion
             price of $46.25 per share of Steel Stock (equivalent to a
             conversion ratio of 1.081 shares of Steel Stock for each Trust
             Preferred Security), subject to adjustment in certain
             circumstances.

                       The Trust Preferred Securities may be redeemed at any
             time at the option of USX, at a premium of 103.25% of the initial
             liquidation amount through March 31, 1999, and thereafter,
             declining annually to the initial liquidation amount on April 1,
             2003, and thereafter. They are mandatorily redeemable at March 31,
             2037, or earlier under certain circumstances.

                       Payments related to quarterly distributions and to the
             payment of redemption and liquidation amounts on the Trust
             Preferred Securities by the Trust are guaranteed by USX on a
             subordinated basis. In addition, USX unconditionally guarantees the
             Trust's Debentures. The obligations of USX under the Debentures,
             and the related indenture, trust agreement and guarantee constitute
             a full and unconditional guarantee by USX of the Trust's
             obligations under the Trust Preferred Securities.

26. Preferred Stock

                USX is authorized to issue 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock,
             without par value --

             6.50% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (6.50% Preferred
             Stock) -- As of December 31, 1998, 2,767,787 shares (stated value
             of $1.00 per share; liquidation preference of $50.00 per share)
             were outstanding. The 6.50% Preferred Stock is convertible at any
             time, at the option of the holder, into shares of Steel Stock at a
             conversion price of $46.125 per share of Steel Stock, subject to
             adjustment in certain circumstances. This stock is redeemable at
             USX's sole option, at a price of $51.625 per share beginning April
             1, 1998, and thereafter at prices declining annually on each April
             1 to an amount equal to $50.00 per share on and after April 1,
             2003.

                                                                            U-25

 
27. Derivative Instruments

             USX uses commodity-based derivative instruments to manage exposure
             to price fluctuations related to the anticipated purchase or
             production and sale of crude oil, natural gas, refined products,
             nonferrous metals and electricity. The derivative instruments used,
             as a part of an overall risk management program, include exchange-
             traded futures contracts and options, and instruments which require
             settlement in cash such as OTC commodity swaps and OTC options.
             While risk management activities generally reduce market risk
             exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw
             material purchases and products sold, such activities can also
             encompass strategies which assume certain price risk in isolated
             transactions.

                       USX uses forward exchange contracts to minimize its
             exposure to foreign currency price fluctuations.

                       USX remains at risk for possible changes in the market
             value of the derivative instrument; however, such risk should be
             mitigated by price changes in the underlying hedged item. USX is
             also exposed to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by
             counterparties. The credit worthiness of counterparties is subject
             to continuing review, including the use of master netting
             agreements to the extent practical, and full performance is
             anticipated.

                       The following table sets forth quantitative information
             by class of derivative instrument:

             /(a)/The fair value amounts for OTC positions are based on various
                  indices or dealer quotes. The fair value amounts for currency
                  contracts are based on dealer quotes of forward prices
                  covering the remaining duration of the forward exchange
                  contract. The exchange-traded futures contracts and certain
                  option contracts do not have a corresponding fair value since
                  changes in the market prices are settled on a daily basis.
             /(b)/Contract or notional amounts do not quantify risk exposure,
                  but are used in the calculation of cash settlements under the
                  contracts. The contract or notional amounts do not reflect the
                  extent to which positions may offset one another.
             /(c)/Includes fair values as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, for
                  assets of $23 million and $3 million and for liabilities of
                  $(20) million and $(2) million, respectively.
             /(d)/The OTC swap arrangements vary in duration with certain
                  contracts extending into 2008.
             /(e)/Includes fair values as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, for
                  assets of $29 million and $1 million and for liabilities of
                  $(38) million and $(4) million, respectively.
             /(f)/The forward exchange contracts relating to USX's foreign
                  operations have various maturities ending in December 1999.
             /(g)/The forward exchange contracts relating to foreign
                  denominated debt matured in 1998.

U-26

 
28. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

             Fair value of the financial instruments disclosed herein is not
             necessarily representative of the amount that could be realized or
             settled, nor does the fair value amount consider the tax
             consequences of realization or settlement. The following table
             summarizes financial instruments, excluding derivative financial
             instruments disclosed in Note 27, by individual balance sheet
             account:



                       Fair value of financial instruments classified as current
             assets or liabilities approximates carrying value due to the short-
             term maturity of the instruments. Fair value of investments and
             long-term receivables was based on discounted cash flows or other
             specific instrument analysis. Fair value of preferred stock of
             subsidiary and trust preferred securities was based on market
             prices. Fair value of long-term debt instruments was based on
             market prices where available or current borrowing rates available
             for financings with similar terms and maturities.

                       USX's unrecognized financial instruments consist of
             receivables sold and financial guarantees. It is not practicable to
             estimate the fair value of these forms of financial instrument
             obligations because there are no quoted market prices for
             transactions which are similar in nature. For details relating to
             sales of receivables see Note 14, and for details relating to
             financial guarantees see Note 29.

29. Contingencies and Commitments

             USX is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or
             threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a
             variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the
             environment. Certain of these matters are discussed below. The
             ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or
             in the aggregate, be material to the consolidated financial
             statements. However, management believes that USX will remain a
             viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that
             these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably.

             Environmental matters --

                       USX is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws
             and regulations relating to the environment. These laws generally
             provide for control of pollutants released into the environment and
             require responsible parties to undertake remediation of hazardous
             waste disposal sites. Penalties may be imposed for noncompliance.
             At December 31, 1998 and 1997, accrued liabilities for remediation
             totaled $145 million and $158 million, respectively. It is not
             presently possible to estimate the ultimate amount of all
             remediation costs that might be incurred or the penalties that may
             be imposed. Receivables for recoverable costs from certain states,
             under programs to assist companies in cleanup efforts related to
             underground storage tanks at retail marketing outlets, were $41
             million at December 31, 1998, and $42 million at December 31, 1997.

                       For a number of years, USX has made substantial capital
             expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance with
             various laws relating to the environment. In 1998 and 1997, such
             capital expenditures totaled $173 million and $134 million,
             respectively. USX anticipates making additional such expenditures
             in the future; however, the exact amounts and timing of such
             expenditures are uncertain because of the continuing evolution of
             specific regulatory requirements.

                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, accrued liabilities for
             platform abandonment and dismantlement totaled $141 million and
             $128 million, respectively.

                                                                            U-27

 
             Guarantees --

                       Guarantees of the liabilities of affiliated entities by
             USX and its consolidated subsidiaries totaled $212 million at
             December 31, 1998, and $73 million at December 31, 1997. In the
             event that any defaults of guaranteed liabilities occur, USX has
             access to its interest in the assets of most of the affiliates to
             reduce potential losses resulting from these guarantees. As of
             December 31, 1998, the largest guarantee for a single affiliate was
             $131 million.

                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, USX's pro rata share of
             obligations of LOOP LLC and various pipeline affiliates secured by
             throughput and deficiency agreements totaled $164 million and $165
             million, respectively. Under the agreements, USX is required to
             advance funds if the affiliates are unable to service debt. Any
             such advances are prepayments of future transportation charges.

             Commitments --

                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, contract commitments to
             acquire property, plant and equipment and long-term investments
             totaled $812 million and $533 million, respectively.

                       USX entered into a 15-year take-or-pay arrangement in
             1993, which requires USX to accept pulverized coal each month or
             pay a minimum monthly charge of approximately $1.3 million. Charges
             for deliveries of pulverized coal totaled $23 million in 1998 and
             $24 million in 1997. If USX elects to terminate the contract early,
             a maximum termination payment of $108 million, which declines over
             the duration of the agreement, may be required.

                       USX is a party to a 15-year transportation services
             agreement with a natural gas transmission company. The contract
             requires USX to pay a minimum annual demand charge of approximately
             $5 million starting in the year 2000 and concluding in the year
             2014. The payments are required even if the transportation facility
             is not utilized.

             Other --

                On August 1, 1999, U. S. Steel, along with several major steel
             competitors, faces the expiration of the labor agreement with the
             United Steelworkers of America. U. S. Steel's ability to negotiate
             an acceptable labor contract is essential to its ongoing
             operations. Any labor interruptions could have an adverse effect on
             operations, financial results and cash flow.

U-28

 
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)



/(a)/Composite tape.
/(b)/Represents one month of operations and gain on disposal of the Delhi
     Companies.

                                                                            U-29

 
Principal Unconsolidated Affiliates (Unaudited)



/(a)/Represents the ownership of MAP.
/(b)/Formerly RMI Titanium Company.

Supplementary Information on Mineral Reserves (Unaudited)

Mineral Reserves (other than oil and gas)



/(a)/Commercially recoverable reserves include demonstrated (measured and
     indicated) quantities which are expressed in recoverable net product tons.
/(b)/In 1998, iron ore reserves decreased due to production and engineering
     revisions. In 1997, iron ore reserves increased 55.3 million tons due to
     lease exchanges.
/(c)/In 1998, coal reserves decreased due to production, lease activity and
     engineering revisions. In 1997, coal reserves decreased 53.2 million tons
     due to a lease termination.
 
Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)

Capitalized Costs and Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization/(a)/



/(a)/Excludes assets specifically related to Other production-related earnings.

U-30

 
             Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities
             (Unaudited) CONTINUED
                                                            
             Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities,
             Excluding Corporate Overhead and Interest Costs/(a)/ 
                                                                  
             

             /(a)/Includes the results of using derivative instruments to
                  manage commodity and foreign currency risks.
             /(b)/Includes net gains on asset dispositions and natural
                  gas contract settlements, as of December 31, 1998, 1997
                  and 1996, of $43 million, $7 million and $25 million,
                  respectively.
             /(c)/Includes international property impairments and suspended
                  exploration well write-offs of $73 million.
             /(d)/Includes international property impairments of $10 million.
             /(e)/Includes revenues, net of associated costs, from third-party
                  activities that are an integral part of USX's production
                  operations. Third-party activities may include the processing
                  and/or transportation of third-party production, and the
                  purchase and subsequent resale of gas utilized in reservoir
                  management.
             /(f)/Includes domestic production tax charges of $11 million
                  related to prior periods.

                                                                            U-31

 
             Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities
             (Unaudited) CONTINUED
             Costs Incurred for Property Acquisition, Exploration and
             Development -- Including Capital Expenditures


             Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves

                    The following estimates of net reserves have been determined
             by deducting royalties of various kinds from USX's gross reserves.
             The reserve estimates are believed to be reasonable and consistent
             with presently known physical data concerning size and character of
             the reservoirs and are subject to change as additional knowledge
             concerning the reservoirs becomes available. The estimates include
             only such reserves as can reasonably be classified as proved; they
             do not include reserves which may be found by extension of proved
             areas or reserves recoverable by secondary or tertiary recovery
             methods unless these methods are in operation and are showing
             successful results. Undeveloped reserves consist of reserves to be
             recovered from future wells on undrilled acreage or from existing
             wells where relatively major expenditures will be required to
             realize production. Liquid hydrocarbon production amounts for
             international operations principally reflect tanker liftings of
             equity production. USX did not have any quantities of oil and gas
             reserves subject to long-term supply agreements with foreign
             governments or authorities in which USX acts as producer.



             /(a)/ Represents reserves related to the acquisition of Tarragon
                   Oil and Gas Limited in August 1998.

U-32

 

             /(a)/ Represents reserves related to the acquisition of Tarragon
                   Oil and Gas Limited in August 1998.

             Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows and
             Changes Therein Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves

                  Estimated discounted future net cash flows and changes
             therein were determined in accordance with Statement of Financial
             Accounting Standards No. 69. Certain information concerning the
             assumptions used in computing the valuation of proved reserves and
             their inherent limitations are discussed below. USX believes such
             information is essential for a proper understanding and assessment
             of the data presented.

                  Future cash inflows are computed by applying year-end
             prices of oil and gas relating to USX's proved reserves to the
             year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are
             considered only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements
             in existence at year-end.

                  The assumptions used to compute the proved reserve valuation
             do not necessarily reflect USX's expectations of actual revenues to
             be derived from those reserves nor their present worth. Assigning
             monetary values to the estimated quantities of reserves, described
             on the preceding page, does not reduce the subjective and ever-
             changing nature of such reserve estimates.

                  Additional subjectivity occurs when determining present
             values because the rate of producing the reserves must be
             estimated. In addition to uncertainties inherent in predicting the
             future, variations from the expected production rate also could
             result directly or indirectly from factors outside of USX's
             control, such as unintentional delays in development, environmental
             concerns, changes in prices or regulatory controls.

                  The reserve valuation assumes that all reserves will be
             disposed of by production. However, if reserves are sold in place
             or subjected to participation by foreign governments, additional
             economic considerations also could affect the amount of cash
             eventually realized.

                  Future development and production costs, including abandonment
             and dismantlement costs, are computed by estimating the
             expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
             oil and gas reserves at the end of the year, based on year-end
             costs and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions.

                  Future income tax expenses are computed by applying the
             appropriate year-end statutory tax rates, with consideration of
             future tax rates already legislated, to the future pretax net cash
             flows relating to USX's proved oil and gas reserves. Permanent
             differences in oil and gas related tax credits and allowances are
             recognized.

                  Discount was derived by using a discount rate of 10 percent a
             year to reflect the timing of the future net cash flows relating to
             proved oil and gas reserves.

                                                                            U-33

 
 
 


U-34

             Five-Year Operating Summary -- Marathon Group

             /(a)/ Represents gas acquired for injection and subsequent
                   resale.
             /(b)/ Represents Marathon's equity interest in CLAM Petroleum
                   B.V.
             /(c)/ Prices exclude gains/losses from hedging activities.
             /(d)/ Represents Marathon's equity interest in Sakhalin Energy
                   Investment Company Ltd.

                                                                            U-35

                Five-Year Operating Summary -- Marathon Group CONTINUED

             /(a)/ 1998 statistics include 100% of MAP and should be
                   considered when compared to prior periods.
             /(b)/ Pipelines for downstream operations also include non-common
                   carrier, leased and equity affiliates.
             /(c)/ Pipeline barrels handled on owned common carrier pipelines,
                   excluding equity affiliates.

U-36

             Five-Year Operating Summary -- U. S. Steel Group

             /(a)/ The reduction in coke production in 1997 and 1998 reflected
                   U. S. Steel's entry into a strategic partnership with two
                   limited partners on June 1, 1997, to acquire an interest in
                   three coke batteries at its Clairton (Pa.) Works.

                                                                            U-37

 


 /(a)/ 1998 statistics, other than employee data, include 100% of MAP, which
       should be considered when making comparisons to prior periods.
 /(b)/ Total debt represents the sum of notes payable, total long-term debt and
       preferred stock of subsidiary and trust preferred securities.
 /(c)/ Excludes the Delhi Companies sold in 1997.
 /(d)/ Data for 1998 includes Ashland employees from the date of their payroll
       transfer to MAP, which occurred at various times throughout 1998. These
       employees were contracted to MAP in 1998, prior to their payroll
       transfer.

                                                                                

U-38

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis

                USX Corporation ("USX") is a diversified company engaged
             primarily in the energy business through its Marathon Group, and in
             the steel business through its U. S. Steel Group.

                Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold Delhi Gas Pipeline
             Corporation and other subsidiaries of USX that comprised all of the
             USX -- Delhi Group ("Delhi Companies"). On January 26, 1998, USX
             used the $195 million net proceeds from the sale to redeem all of
             the 9.45 million outstanding shares of USX-Delhi Group Common
             Stock. For additional information, see Note 5 to the USX
             Consolidated Financial Statements.

                During 1997, Marathon Oil Company ("Marathon") and Ashland Inc.
             ("Ashland") agreed to combine the major elements of their refining,
             marketing and transportation ("RM&T") operations. On January 1,
             1998, Marathon transferred certain RM&T net assets to Marathon
             Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"), a new consolidated subsidiary. Also
             on January 1, 1998, Marathon acquired certain RM&T net assets from
             Ashland in exchange for a 38 percent interest in MAP. Financial
             measures such as revenues, income from operations and capital
             expenditures in 1998 include 100 percent of MAP and are not
             comparable to prior period amounts. Income from continuing
             operations, net income and related per share amounts for 1998 are
             net of the minority interest. For further discussion of MAP and pro
             forma information, see Note 3 to the USX Consolidated Financial
             Statements.

                On August 11, 1998, Marathon acquired Tarragon Oil and Gas
             Limited ("Tarragon"), a Canadian oil and gas exploration and
             production company. The purchase price included $686 million in
             cash payments, the assumption of $345 million in debt and the
             issuance of Exchangeable Shares of an indirect Canadian subsidiary
             of Marathon valued at $29 million. The Exchangeable Shares are
             exchangeable at any time on a one-for-one basis for shares of USX
             -- Marathon Group Common Stock ("Marathon Stock"). On November 4,
             1998, USX sold 17 million shares of Marathon Stock. The proceeds to
             USX of $528 million, were used to reduce indebtedness incurred to
             fund the Tarragon acquisition. Financial measures such as revenues,
             income from operations and capital expenditures in 1998 include
             operations of Marathon Canada Limited, formerly known as Tarragon,
             commencing August 12, 1998. For further discussion of Tarragon and
             pro forma information, see Note 3 to the USX Consolidated Financial
             Statements.

                Management's Discussion and Analysis of USX Consolidated
             Financial Statements provides certain information about the
             Marathon and U. S. Steel Groups, particularly in Management's
             Discussion and Analysis of Operations by Group. More expansive
             Group information is provided in Management's Discussion and
             Analysis of the Marathon Group and U. S. Steel Group, which are
             included in the USX 1998 Form 10-K. Management's Discussion and
             Analysis should be read in conjunction with the USX Consolidated
             Financial Statements and Notes to USX Consolidated Financial
             Statements.

                Certain sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis include
             forward-looking statements concerning trends or events potentially
             affecting USX. These statements typically contain words such as
             "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "expects" or similar words
             indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with
             "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
             Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary
             language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all
             such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially
             from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For
             additional risk factors affecting the businesses of USX, see
             Supplementary Data -- Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements
             in the USX 1998 Form 10-K.

                                                                            U-39

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income

                Revenues for each of the last three years are summarized in the
             following table:

             /(a)/Consists of sales, dividend and affiliate income, gain on
                  ownership change in MAP, net gains on disposal of assets, gain
                  on affiliate stock offering and other income.
             /(b)/Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold the Delhi Companies.
                  Excludes revenues of the Delhi Companies, which have been
                  reclassified as discontinued operations for 1997 and 1996.
             /(c)/Included in both revenues and costs and expenses for the
                  Marathon Group and USX Consolidated, resulting in no effect on
                  income.

                Adjusted revenues increased by $3,390 million in 1998 as
             compared with 1997, reflecting a 37 percent increase for the
             Marathon Group, partially offset by a 9 percent decrease for the U.
             S. Steel Group. Adjusted revenues increased by $119 million in 1997
             as compared with 1996, reflecting a 4 percent increase for the U.
             S. Steel Group, partially offset by a 1 percent decrease for the
             Marathon Group. For further discussion, see Management's Discussion
             and Analysis of Operations by Group, herein.

                Income from operations for each of the last three years are
             summarized in the following table:

                For further discussion, see Management's Discussion and Analysis
             of Operations by Group, herein.

U-40

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Net interest and other financial costs for each of the last
             three years are summarized in the following table:

             /(a)/ In December 1996, USX issued $117 million in aggregate
                   principal amount of 6-3/4% Notes Due February 1, 2000
                   ("Indexed Debt"), mandatorily exchangeable at maturity for
                   common stock of RTI International Metals, Inc. (formerly RMI
                   Titanium Company) ("RTI") or for the equivalent amount of
                   cash, at USX's option. The carrying value of indexed debt is
                   adjusted quarterly to settlement value based on changes in
                   the value of RTI common stock. Any resulting adjustment is
                   charged or credited to income and included in interest and
                   other financial costs. At December 31, 1998, the adjusted
                   carrying value of Indexed Debt was $69 million. USX's 26
                   percent interest in RTI continues to be accounted for under
                   the equity method.

                Excluding the effect of the adjustment to the carrying value of
             Indexed Debt, net interest and other financial costs decreased by
             $34 million in 1998 as compared with 1997, and by $58 million in
             1997 as compared with 1996. The decrease in 1998 was primarily due
             to increased interest income levels and increased capitalized
             interest on Exploration & Production projects, partially offset by
             increased interest costs resulting from higher average debt levels.
             The decrease in 1997 was primarily due to decreased interest costs
             resulting from lower average debt levels and increased capitalized
             interest on Exploration & Production projects. For additional
             information, see Note 7 to the USX Consolidated Financial
             Statements.

                The provision for estimated income taxes was $315 million in
             1998, compared with $450 million in 1997 and $412 million in 1996.
             The decrease in 1998 was primarily due to a decline in income from
             continuing operations. The 1998 provision included $33 million of
             favorable adjustments related to foreign operations. Provisions
             included credits other than foreign tax credits of $24 million and
             $48 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively (primarily
             nonconventional source fuel credits). A significant portion of the
             reduction in these credits in 1997 as compared with 1996 resulted
             from USX's entry into a strategic partnership with two limited
             partners to acquire an interest in three coke batteries at its U.
             S. Steel Group's Clairton (Pa.) Works. For reconciliation of the
             federal statutory rate to total provisions on income from
             continuing operations, see Note 13 to the USX Consolidated
             Financial Statements.

                Extraordinary loss in 1996 reflected unfavorable aftertax
             effects of early extinguishment of debt. In December 1996, USX
             irrevocably called for redemption on January 30, 1997, 8-1/2%
             Sinking Fund Debentures Due 2006, with a carrying value of $120
             million, resulting in an extraordinary loss of $9 million, net of
             an income tax benefit of $5 million.

                Income from discontinued operations reflects aftertax income of
             the Delhi Group. Income in 1997 included an $81 million gain on
             disposal of the Delhi Companies (net of income taxes). For
             additional discussion, see Note 5 to the USX Consolidated Financial
             Statements.

                Net income was $674 million in 1998, $988 million in 1997 and
             $943 million in 1996. Excluding the gain on change of ownership in
             MAP in 1998, the effects of the $81 million gain on disposal
             related to discontinued operations in 1997, and adjustments to the
             inventory market valuation reserve in each of 1998, 1997 and 1996,
             net income decreased by $462 million in 1998 as compared with 1997,
             and increased by $275 million in 1997 as compared with 1996.

                Noncash credit from exchange of preferred stock was $10 million,
             or 12 cents per share of Steel Stock, in 1997. In May 1997, USX
             exchanged 3.9 million 6.75% Convertible Quarterly Income Preferred
             Securities ("Trust Preferred Securities") of USX Capital Trust I
             for an equivalent number of shares of its outstanding 6.50%
             Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ("6.50% Preferred Stock").
             The

                                                                            U-41

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

             $10 million noncash credit reflects the difference between the
             carrying value of the 6.50% Preferred Stock and the fair value of
             the Trust Preferred Securities at the date of the exchange. See
             Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
             discussion.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and
Liquidity

                Current assets increased by $734 million from year-end 1997,
             primarily reflecting increased receivables and inventories
             resulting from the addition of Ashland RM&T receivables and
             inventories. These additions were partially offset by general
             declines in receivables and inventories resulting primarily from
             lower commodity prices, and lower operating levels for the U. S.
             Steel Group. Inventories were reduced by a $267 million increase to
             the inventory market valuation reserve reflecting lower year-end
             commodity prices.

                Current liabilities increased by $96 million from year-end 1997,
             primarily reflecting increased payables resulting from the addition
             of Ashland RM&T payables, partially offset by a decrease in long-
             term debt due within one year.

                Net property, plant and equipment increased by $2,867 million
             from year-end 1997, primarily reflecting the addition of Ashland's
             RM&T assets and the acquisition of Tarragon.

                Total long-term debt and notes payable increased by $612 million
             from year-end 1997, mainly reflecting borrowings against a
             revolving credit agreement to fund the acquisition of Tarragon in
             August 1998. At December 31, 1998, USX had $700 million of
             borrowings against its long-term revolving credit agreement of
             $2,350 million.

                Minority interest in Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC represents
             Ashland's 38% interest in MAP.

                Stockholders' equity increased by $1,005 million from year-end
             1997 mainly reflecting 1998 net income of $674 million and $528
             million in proceeds from the public issuance of 17 million shares
             of Marathon Stock in November 1998, partially offset by dividends
             paid.

                Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,803 million
             in 1998, $1,458 million in 1997 and $1,649 million in 1996. Cash
             provided from operating activities in 1998 included proceeds of $38
             million for the insurance litigation settlement pertaining to the
             1995 Gary Works #8 blast furnace explosion. Cash provided from
             operating activities in 1997 included a payment of $390 million
             resulting from termination of a Marathon Group and Delhi Group
             accounts receivable sales program, payments of $199 million to fund
             employee benefit plans related to the U. S. Steel Group, and
             insurance recoveries of $40 million related to a 1996 hearth
             breakout at the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace. Cash provided from
             operating activities in 1996 included a payment of $59 million to
             the Internal Revenue Service for certain agreed and unagreed
             adjustments relating to the tax year 1990, payments of $39 million
             related to certain state tax issues, and a payment of $28 million
             related to settlement of the Pickering litigation. Excluding the
             effects of these adjustments, cash provided from operating
             activities decreased by $242 million in 1998 as compared with 1997,
             primarily due to lower net income and unfavorable working capital
             changes, and increased by $232 million in 1997 as compared with
             1996, due primarily to favorable working capital changes, improved
             profitability and reduced interest payments, partially offset by
             increased income taxes paid. For additional discussion of 1997
             funding of U. S. Steel benefit plans, see Benefit Plan Activity,
             herein.

U-42

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Capital expenditures for each of the last three years are
             summarized in the following table:


                Marathon Group's domestic upstream capital expenditures in 1998
             mainly included continuing development of Viosca Knoll 786
             ("Petronius"), Green Canyon 244 ("Troika") and Green Canyon 112/113
             ("Stellaria") in the Gulf of Mexico. International upstream capital
             expenditures included development of the Tchatamba South field,
             offshore Gabon. Downstream capital expenditures in 1998 were
             primarily for upgrading and expanding retail marketing outlets and
             refinery modification projects.

                U. S. Steel Group capital expenditures in 1998 included a blast
             furnace reline at Gary Works, an upgrade to the galvanizing line at
             Fairless Works, replacement of coke battery thruwalls at Gary
             Works, conversion of the Fairfield Works pipe mill to use round
             instead of square blooms, and environmental expenditures primarily
             at Fairfield Works and Gary Works.

                Capital expenditures in 1999 are expected to be approximately
             $1.6 billion. Expenditures for the Marathon Group are expected to
             be approximately $1.3 billion. Domestic upstream projects planned
             for 1999 include continuing development of projects in the Gulf of
             Mexico and natural gas development in East Texas and throughout the
             western United States. International upstream projects include
             development of properties offshore Gabon and in Canada. Downstream
             spending is expected to be primarily for upgrades and expansions of
             retail marketing outlets and refinery improvements.

                Capital expenditures for the U. S. Steel Group in 1999 are
             expected to be approximately $290 million. Planned projects include
             improvements at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Fairfield Works
             and environmental expenditures.

                Investments in affiliates of $115 million in 1998, mainly
             reflected funding of MAP's acquisition of an interest in Southcap
             Pipe Line Company and U. S. Steel's entry into a joint venture in
             Slovakia with VSZ a.s.

                Investments in affiliates in 1999 are expected to be
             approximately $80 million. Projected investments include continued
             development of the Sakhalin II project.

                Contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment
             and long-term investments at December 31, 1998, totaled $812
             million compared with $533 million at December 31, 1997.

                The above statements with respect to 1999 capital expenditures
             and investments are forward-looking statements reflecting
             management's best estimates based on information currently
             available. To the extent this information proves to be inaccurate,
             the timing and levels of future expenditures and investments could
             differ materially from those included in the forward-looking
             statements. Factors that could cause future capital expenditures
             and investments to differ materially include changes in industry
             supply and demand, general economic conditions, the availability of
             business opportunities and levels of cash flow from operations for
             each of the Groups. The timing of completion or cost of particular
             capital projects could be affected by unforeseen hazards such as
             weather conditions, explosions or fires, or by delays in obtaining
             government or partner approval. In addition, levels of investments
             may be affected by the ability of equity affiliates to obtain
             third-party financing.

                Proceeds from disposal of assets were $86 million in 1998,
             compared with $481 million in 1997 and $443 million in 1996.
             Proceeds in 1997 included $361 million resulting from USX's entry
             into a strategic partnership with two limited partners to acquire
             an interest in three coke batteries at its

                                                                            U-43

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED


             U. S. Steel Group's Clairton Works and $15 million from the sale of
             the plate mill at the U. S. Steel Group's former Texas Works.
             Proceeds in 1996 primarily reflected the sale of the U. S. Steel
             Group's investment in National-Oilwell (an oil field service joint
             venture); the sale of a portion of its investment in RTI common
             stock; disposal of the Marathon Group's interests in Alaskan oil
             properties and certain domestic and international oil and gas
             production properties; and the sale of the Marathon Group's equity
             interest in a domestic pipeline company.

                The net change in restricted cash was a net withdrawal of $174
             million in 1998, which was primarily the result of redeeming all of
             the outstanding shares of USX-Delhi Group Common Stock with the
             $195 million of net proceeds from the sale of the Delhi Companies
             that had been classified as restricted cash in 1997. The net
             deposit of $97 million in 1997 mainly represents the deposit of the
             $195 million of net proceeds from the sale of the Delhi Companies,
             partially offset by cash withdrawn from an interest-bearing escrow
             account that was established in 1996 in connection with the
             disposal of oil production properties in Alaska.

                Financial obligations (the net of debt repayments, borrowings,
             commercial paper and revolving credit arrangements on the
             Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) increased by $315 million in
             1998, compared with decreases of $734 million in 1997 and $673
             million in 1996. The increase in 1998 is primarily the result of
             borrowings against a revolving credit agreement to fund the
             acquisition of Tarragon in August 1998. The decrease in financial
             obligations in 1997 and 1996 primarily reflected cash flows
             provided from operating activities and asset sales in excess of
             cash used for capital expenditures and dividend payments (and with
             respect to 1997, in excess of $249 million of cash used for
             investments in equity affiliates).

                Issuance of long-term debt and Trust Preferred Securities for
             each of the last three years is summarized in the following table:

          /(a)/In 1997, USX exchanged 3.9 million 6.75% Convertible
               Quarterly Income Preferred Securities ("Trust Preferred
               Securities") of USX Capital Trust I for an equivalent number of
               shares of USX's 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.
               This was a noncash transaction. For additional discussion, see
               Note 26 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.
          /(b)/See Note 17 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements
               for a description of Indexed Debt.
          /(c)/Issued to refinance an equivalent amount of environmental
               improvement refunding bonds and capital leases.

                USX filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf
             registration statement, which became effective July 31, 1998, that
             allows USX to offer and issue unsecured debt securities, common and
             preferred stock and warrants in an aggregate principal amount of up
             to $1 billion in one or more separate offerings on terms to be
             determined at the time of sale. Including this shelf registration
             statement, USX had a total of $986 million available under existing
             shelf registration statements at December 31, 1998. In January
             1999, USX issued $300 million in aggregate principal amount of
             6.65% Notes due 2006, reducing the availability under existing
             shelf registration statements to $686 million.

                In the event of a change in control of USX, debt and guaranteed
             obligations totaling $4.0 billion at year-end 1998 may be declared
             immediately due and payable or required to be collateralized. See
             Notes 12, 14 and 17 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.

                Dividends paid increased by $26 million in 1998 as compared with
             1997, due primarily to a two-cents-per-share increase in the
             quarterly Marathon Stock dividend rate effective January 1998.
             Dividends paid increased by $9 million in 1997 as compared with
             1996, due primarily to the full-year effect of a two-cents-per-
             share increase in the quarterly Marathon Stock dividend rate
             effective October 1996. The increase was partially offset by
             decreased dividends on preferred stock, reflecting 6.50% Preferred
             Stock exchanged for Trust Preferred Securities during 1997.

U-44

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Benefit Plan Activity

                USX contributed $49 million in 1997 to fund the U. S. Steel
             Group's principal pension plan for the 1996 plan year. Also in
             1997, USX contributed $80 million for elective funding of retiree
             life insurance of union and nonunion participants, and $70 million
             to the United Steelworkers of America ("USWA") Voluntary Employee
             Benefit Association Trust ("VEBA"). A total of $40 million of the
             $70 million VEBA contribution represented prefunding for the years
             1998 and 1999.

                Debt and Preferred Stock Ratings

                       Standard & Poor's Corp. currently rates USX and Marathon
             Oil Company ("Marathon") senior debt as investment grade, following
             an upgrade in November 1996 to BBB- from BB+. USX's subordinated
             debt and preferred stock were also upgraded to BB+ from BB-.
             Moody's Investors Services, Inc., following upgrades in June 1998,
             currently rates USX's and Marathon's senior debt as investment
             grade at Baa2, USX's subordinated debt at Baa3 and USX's preferred
             stock as Ba1. Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. currently rates USX's
             senior notes as investment grade at BBB and USX's subordinated debt
             as BBB-.

                Derivative Instruments
                See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
             for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market
             risk.

                Liquidity

                USX management believes that its short-term and long-term
             liquidity is adequate to satisfy its obligations as of December 31,
             1998, and to complete currently authorized capital spending
             programs. Future requirements for USX's business needs, including
             the funding of capital expenditures, debt maturities for the years
             1999, 2000 and 2001, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in
             connection with contingencies (which are discussed in Note 29 to
             the USX Consolidated Financial Statements), are expected to be
             financed by a combination of internally generated funds, proceeds
             from the sale of stock, borrowings or other external financing
             sources.

                USX management's opinion concerning liquidity and USX's ability
             to avail itself in the future of the financing options mentioned in
             the above forward-looking statements are based on currently
             available information. To the extent that this information proves
             to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely
             affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include
             the performance of each Group (as indicated by levels of cash
             provided from operating activities and other measures), the state
             of the debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and
             expectations of past and future performance, the overall U.S.
             financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings,
             levels of USX's outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating
             agencies. For a summary of long-term debt, see Note 17 to the USX
             Consolidated Financial Statements.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and
Contingencies

                USX has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital,
             operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result
             of environmental laws and regulations. To the extent these
             expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in
             the prices of USX's products and services, operating results will
             be adversely affected. USX believes that domestic competitors of
             the U. S. Steel Group and substantially all the competitors of the
             Marathon Group are subject to similar environmental laws and
             regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may
             vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and
             location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production
             processes and the specific products and services it provides.

                                                                            U-45

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                The following table summarizes USX's environmental expenditures
             for each of the last three years/(a)/:

             /(a)/Amounts for the Marathon Group are calculated based on
                  American Petroleum Institute survey guidelines. Amounts for
                  the U. S. Steel Group are based on previously established U.S.
                  Department of Commerce survey guidelines.
             /(b)/Amounts in 1998 include 100% of MAP
             /(c)/Amounts do not include noncash provisions recorded for
               environmental remediation, but include spending charged against
               such reserves, net of recoveries where permissible.

                USX's environmental capital expenditures accounted for 11%, 10%
             and 14% of total consolidated capital expenditures in 1998, 1997
             and 1996, respectively.

                USX's environmental compliance expenditures averaged 1% of total
             consolidated costs and expenses in 1998, and 2% in both 1997 and
             1996. Remediation spending primarily reflected ongoing clean-up
             costs for soil and groundwater contamination associated with
             underground storage tanks and piping at retail gasoline stations,
             and remediation activities at former and present operating
             locations.

                The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") establishes
             standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides
             affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the
             environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations,
             the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks.

                A significant portion of USX's currently identified
             environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of
             former and present operating locations. These projects include
             continuing remediation at an in situ uranium mining operation, the
             remediation of former coke-making facilities, a closed and
             dismantled refinery site and the closure of permitted hazardous and
             non-hazardous waste landfills.

                USX has been notified that it is a potentially responsible party
             ("PRP") at 46 waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental
             Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") as of December
             31, 1998. In addition, there are 25 sites where USX has received
             information requests or other indications that USX may be a PRP
             under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently
             available to confirm the existence of liability. There are also 126
             additional sites, excluding retail gasoline stations, where
             remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes,
             both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking
             remediation through discussions or litigation. Of these sites, 16
             were associated with properties conveyed to MAP by Ashland for
             which Ashland has retained liability for all costs associated with
             remediation. At many of these sites, USX is one of a number of
             parties involved and the total cost of remediation, as well as
             USX's share thereof, is frequently dependent upon the outcome of
             investigations and remedial studies. USX accrues for environmental
             remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is
             probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably
             determinable. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward
             ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise,
             charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. See
             Note 29 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.

U-46

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                In October 1998, the National Enforcement Investigations Center
             and Region V of the United States Environmental Protection Agency
             conducted a multi-media inspection of MAP's Detroit refinery.
             Subsequently, in November 1998, Region V conducted a multi-media
             inspection of MAP's Robinson refinery. These inspections covered
             compliance with the Clean Air Act (New Source Performance
             Standards, Prevention of Significant Deterioration, and the
             National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for
             Benzene), the Clean Water Act (Permit exceedances for the Waste
             Water Treatment Plant), reporting obligations under the Emergency
             Planning and Community Right to Know Act and the handling of
             process waste. Although MAP has been advised as to certain
             compliance issues, including one contested Notice of Violation
             regarding MAP's Detroit refinery, it is not known when complete
             findings on the results of the inspections will be issued. In an
             action separate from the multi-media inspection, the Department of
             Justice filed a civil complaint in February 1999, alleging
             violation of the Clean Air Act with respect to benzene releases at
             the Robinson refinery.

                In 1998, USX entered into a consent decree with the
             Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") which resolved alleged
             violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollution Discharge
             Elimination System ("NPDES") permit at Gary Works and provides for
             a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet
             River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, USX entered
             into a consent decree with the public trustees which resolves
             potential liability for natural resource damages on the same
             section of the Grand Calumet River. USX has agreed to pay civil
             penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and
             $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs, which
             will be paid in 1999. In addition, USX will pay the EPA $1 million
             at the end of the remediation project for future monitoring costs.
             During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA,
             capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply
             with the NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an
             approved final interim measure under the corrective action program
             for Gary Works and is expected to cost approximately $30 million
             over the next six years. Estimated remediation and monitoring costs
             for this project have been accrued.

                New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase
             USX's environmental costs, may arise in the future. USX intends to
             comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but
             since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even
             under existing legislation) and may be affected by future
             legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate
             cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be
             incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on
             presently available information, and existing laws and regulations
             as currently implemented, USX does not anticipate that
             environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and
             maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 1999. USX
             expects environmental capital expenditures in 1999 to be
             approximately $96 million, or approximately 5% of total estimated
             consolidated capital expenditures. Predictions beyond 1999 can only
             be broad-based estimates which have varied, and will continue to
             vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory
             requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent
             requirements and the availability of new technologies, among other
             matters. Based upon currently identified projects, USX anticipates
             that environmental capital expenditures in 2000 will total
             approximately $110 million; however, actual expenditures may vary
             as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a
             result of improved technology or changes in regulatory
             requirements, and could increase if additional projects are
             identified or additional requirements are imposed.

                Effective January 1, 1997, USX adopted American Institute of
             Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position No. 96-1 --
             "Environmental Remediation Liabilities", which requires that
             companies include certain direct costs and post-closure monitoring
             costs in accruals for remediation liabilities. USX income from
             operations in the first quarter of 1997 included charges of $27
             million (net of expected recoveries) related to adoption, primarily
             for accruals of post-closure monitoring costs, study costs and
             administrative costs. See Note 2 to the USX Consolidated Financial
             Statements for additional discussion.

                Income from operations in 1997 also included net favorable
             effects of $13 million related to other environmental accrual
             adjustments.

                                                                            U-47

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                USX is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or
             threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a
             variety of matters. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies
             could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the
             consolidated financial statements. However, management believes
             that USX will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even
             though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved
             unfavorably.

                Outlook and Year 2000

                For Outlook with respect to the Marathon Group and U. S. Steel
             Group, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations by
             Group, herein.

                For discussion of the Year 2000 issue as it affects the Marathon
             Group and the U. S. Steel Group, see Management's Discussion and
             Analysis of Operations by Group, herein.

                Accounting Standards

                In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public
             Accountants issued Statement of Position No. 98-1, "Accounting for
             the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal
             Use" ("SOP 98-1"). SOP 98-1 provides guidelines for companies to
             capitalize or expense costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-
             use software. USX adopted SOP 98-1 effective January 1, 1999. The
             incremental impact on results of operations of adoption of SOP 98-1
             is likely to be initially favorable since certain qualifying costs
             will be capitalized and amortized over future periods.

                In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
             Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting
             for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". This new
             standard requires recognition of all derivatives as either assets
             or liabilities at fair value. This new standard may result in
             additional volatility in both current period earnings and other
             comprehensive income as a result of recording recognized and
             unrecognized gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair
             value of derivative instruments. At adoption this new standard
             requires a comprehensive review of all outstanding derivative
             instruments to determine whether or not their use meets the hedge
             accounting criteria. It is possible that there will be derivative
             instruments employed in our businesses that do not meet all of the
             designated hedge criteria and they will be reflected in income on a
             mark-to-market basis. Based upon the strategies currently used by
             USX and the level of activity related to forward exchange contracts
             and commodity-based derivative instruments in recent periods, USX
             does not anticipate the effect of adoption to have a material
             impact on either financial position or results of operations. USX
             plans to adopt the standard effective January 1, 2000, as required.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations by Group

                The Marathon Group

                The Marathon Group includes Marathon Oil Company ("Marathon")
             and certain other subsidiaries of USX Corporation ("USX"), which
             are engaged in worldwide exploration and production of crude oil
             and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of
             petroleum products primarily through Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
             ("MAP"), owned 62% by Marathon; and other energy related
             businesses.

                The Marathon Group's 1998 financial performance was
             significantly impacted by the lowest oil prices in 24 years, lower
             natural gas prices and decreased refining crack spreads (the
             difference between light products prices and crude costs).
             Nevertheless, in 1998, Marathon upstream operations achieved nearly
             a 20% growth in worldwide liquids production and MAP had a highly
             successful first year of operations, achieving annual repeatable
             operating efficiencies of approximately $150 million.

U-48

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Marathon Group revenues for each of the last three years are
             summarized in the following table, which is covered by the report
             of independent accountants.

             /(a)/See Note 3 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements for
                  a discussion of the gain on ownership change in MAP.
             /(b)/Includes dividend and affiliate income, net gains on
                  disposal of assets and other income.
             /(c)/Matching crude oil and refined products buy/sell
                  transactions settled in cash.
             /(d)/Consumer excise taxes on petroleum products and
                  merchandise.
             /(e)/Included in both revenues and costs and expenses, resulting
                  in no effect on income.

                In 1998, Marathon Group revenues included 100% of MAP revenues,
             and MCL's revenues commencing August 12, 1998. On a pro forma
             basis, assuming the acquisitions of Tarragon's operations and
             Ashland's RM&T net assets had occurred on January 1, 1997, revenues
             (excluding matching buy/sell transactions and excise taxes) for
             1997 would have been $16,278 million.

                Revenues (excluding matching buy/sell transactions and excise
             taxes) decreased by $1,732 million in 1998 from pro forma 1997. The
             decrease in 1998 mainly reflected lower prices for refined
             products, lower worldwide liquid hydrocarbon prices and lower
             domestic natural gas prices, partially offset by higher liquid
             hydrocarbon sales volumes. The increase in liquid hydrocarbon sales
             volumes was due to a higher volume of upstream production being
             sold to third parties.

                Revenues (excluding matching buy/sell transactions and excise
             taxes) decreased $132 million in 1997 (as reported) from 1996,
             mainly due to lower average refined product prices and lower
             worldwide liquid hydrocarbon prices and volumes, partially offset
             by increased volumes of refined products and higher domestic
             natural gas volumes and prices.

                                                                            U-49

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Marathon Group income from operations for each of the last three
             years is summarized in the following table:

             /(a)/In 1998, segment income includes 100% of MAP and is not
                  comparable to prior periods.
             /(b)/Includes marketing and transportation of domestic natural gas
                  and crude oil, and power generation.
             /(c)/Includes the portion of the Marathon Group's administrative
                  costs not charged to the operating components and the portion
                  of USX corporate general and administrative costs allocated to
                  the Marathon Group.
             /(d)/The inventory market valuation ("IMV") reserve reflects the
                  extent to which the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and
                  refined products inventories exceeds net realizable value.
             /(e)/The gain on ownership change and one-time transition charges
                  relate to the formation of MAP. For additional discussion of
                  the gain on ownership change in MAP, see Note 3 to the USX
                  Consolidated Financial Statements.
             /(f)/Includes a write-off of certain non-revenue producing
                  international investments and several exploratory wells which
                  had encountered hydrocarbons, but had been suspended pending
                  further evaluation. It also includes a gain from the
                  resolution of a contract dispute with a purchaser of
                  Marathon's natural gas production from certain domestic
                  properties.

                In 1998, Marathon Group income from operations included 100% of
             MAP, and MCL's results of operations commencing August 12, 1998. On
             a pro forma basis, assuming the acquisitions of Ashland's RM&T net
             assets and Tarragon's operations had occurred on January 1, 1997,
             income for reportable segments for 1997 would have been $1,728
             million. Income for reportable segments decreased by $521 million
             in 1998 from pro forma 1997 and increased by $178 million in 1997
             (as reported) from 1996. The decrease in 1998 was primarily due to
             lower worldwide liquid hydrocarbon prices, lower domestic natural
             gas prices and lower refining crack spreads, partially offset by
             higher liquid hydrocarbon production. The increase in 1997 was
             primarily due to higher average refined product margins and higher
             worldwide natural gas prices, partially offset by lower worldwide
             liquid hydrocarbon production and prices and higher worldwide
             exploration expense.

U-50

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED


/(a)/Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
/(b)/Represents equity tanker liftings, truck deliveries and direct deliveries.
/(c)/Represents gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.
/(d)/Prices exclude gains/losses from hedging activities.
/(e)/In 1998, refined products sold and matching buy/sell volumes include 100%
     of MAP and are not comparable to prior periods.

                Domestic E&P income decreased by $310 million in 1998 from 1997
             following a decrease of $47 million in 1997 from 1996. The decrease
             in 1998 was primarily due to lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural
             gas prices, partially offset by increased liquid hydrocarbon
             production and natural gas volumes. The 17%, or 20,000 barrels per
             day ("bpd"), increase in liquid hydrocarbon production was mainly
             attributable to new production in the Gulf of Mexico, while the
             increase in natural gas volumes was mainly attributable to
             properties in east Texas.

                The decrease in 1997 was primarily due to lower liquid
             hydrocarbon prices and production and higher exploration expense,
             partially offset by increased natural gas production and prices.
             The lower liquid hydrocarbon production was mostly due to the 1996
             disposal of oil producing properties in Alaska. The increase in
             natural gas volumes was mainly attributable to properties in east
             Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming.

                International E&P income decreased by $185 million in 1998
             following a decrease of $80 million in 1997. The decrease in 1998
             was primarily due to lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas
             prices and higher exploration and operating expenses. These items
             were partially offset by increased liquid hydrocarbon production
             and natural gas volumes. The 24%, or 12,000 bpd, increase in liquid
             hydrocarbon production was mainly attributable to the acquired
             production in Canada and new operations in Gabon. The increase in
             natural gas volumes was mainly attributable to acquired production
             in Canada.

                The decrease in 1997 was primarily due to lower liquid
             hydrocarbon volumes, lower natural gas volumes and lower liquid
             hydrocarbon prices. These items were partially offset by reduced
             pipeline and terminal expenses and reduced DD&A expenses, due
             largely to the lower volumes. The lower liquid hydrocarbon volumes
             primarily reflected lower production in the U.K. North Sea, while
             the lower natural gas volumes were mainly due to natural field
             declines in Ireland and Norway.

                                                                            U-51

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Refining, marketing and transportation ("downstream") reportable
             segment income in 1998 included 100 percent of MAP. On a pro forma
             basis, assuming the acquisition of Ashland's R&M net assets had
             occurred on January 1, 1997, income for the reportable segments of
             the combined downstream operations of Marathon and Ashland for 1997
             would have been $869 million. On this basis, 1998 downstream
             reportable segment income of $896 million was slightly higher than
             pro forma 1997 downstream reportable segment income. During 1998,
             the effects of lower refining crack spreads were offset by strong
             performances from MAP's asphalt and retail operations, realization
             of operating efficiencies as a result of combining Marathon and
             Ashland's downstream operations and lower energy costs.

                Downstream reportable segment income in 1997 increased $314
             million over 1996 due mainly to improved refined product margins as
             favorable effects of reduced crude oil and other feedstock costs
             more than offset a decrease in refined product sales prices.

                Other energy related businesses reportable segment income
             decreased by $15 million in 1998 following a decrease of $9 million
             in 1997. The decrease in 1998 was mainly due to a gain on the sale
             of an equity interest in a domestic pipeline company included in
             1997 reportable segment income.

                Items not allocated to reportable segments

                Administrative expenses decreased by $62 million in 1998
             following an increase of $35 million in 1997 from 1996. The
             decrease in 1998 mainly reflected an increase in administrative
             costs charged to the RM&T reportable segment, lower accruals for
             employee benefit and compensation plans and lower litigation
             accruals. The increase in 1997 mainly reflected higher accruals for
             employee benefit and compensation plans, including Marathon's
             performance-based variable pay plan.

                IMV reserve adjustment--When U. S. Steel Corporation acquired
             Marathon Oil Company in March 1982, crude oil and refined product
             prices were at historically high levels. In applying the purchase
             method of accounting, the Marathon Group's crude oil and refined
             product inventories were revalued by reference to current prices at
             the time of acquisition, and this became the new LIFO cost basis of
             the inventories. Generally accepted accounting principles require
             that inventories be carried at lower of cost or market.
             Accordingly, the Marathon Group has established an IMV reserve to
             reduce the cost basis of its inventories to net realizable value.
             Quarterly adjustments to the IMV reserve result in noncash charges
             or credits to income from operations.

                When Marathon acquired the crude oil and refined product
             inventories associated with Ashland's RM&T operations on January 1,
             1998, the Marathon Group established a new LIFO cost basis for
             those inventories. The acquisition cost of these inventories
             lowered the overall average cost of the Marathon Group's combined
             RM&T inventories. As a result, the price threshold at which an IMV
             reserve will be recorded was also lowered.

                These adjustments affect the comparability of financial results
             from period to period as well as comparisons with other energy
             companies, many of which do not have such adjustments. Therefore,
             the Marathon Group reports separately the effects of the IMV
             reserve adjustments on financial results. In management's opinion,
             the effects of such adjustments should be considered separately
             when evaluating operating performance.

                Outlook--Marathon Group

                The outlook regarding the Marathon Group's upstream revenues and
             income is largely dependent upon future prices and volumes of
             liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas. Prices have historically been
             volatile and have frequently been affected by unpredictable changes
             in supply and demand resulting from fluctuations in worldwide
             economic activity and political developments in the world's major
             oil and gas producing and consuming areas. During 1998, worldwide
             liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices realized by Marathon were
             significantly lower than 1997. In 1998, West Texas Intermediate
             crude oil postings reached their lowest levels in 24 years. The
             continuation of this depressed pricing environment in 1999 will
             adversely impact upstream results. Expected increases in liquid
             hydrocarbon and natural gas production should partially offset the
             effects of these lower prices. Continued lower prices could
             adversely affect the quantity of crude oil and natural gas reserves
             that can be economically produced and the amount of capital
             available for exploration and development.

U-52

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                In 1999, worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production, including
             Marathon's share of equity affiliates, is expected to increase by
             17 percent, to average approximately 230,000 bpd. Most of the
             increase is anticipated in the second half of the year. This
             primarily reflects projected new production from the Phase I
             development of the Piltun-Astokhskoye ("P-A") field in mid-1999
             (discussed below), start-up of the Tchatamba South field in the
             third quarter of 1999 and a full year of production by MCL,
             partially offset by natural production declines of mature fields.
             In 1999, worldwide natural gas volumes, including Marathon's share
             of equity affiliates, are expected to increase by 11 percent, to
             approximately 1.38 billion cubic feet per day. This primarily
             reflects increases in North American gas production, offset by
             natural declines in mature international fields, primarily in
             Ireland and Norway. In 2000, worldwide liquid hydrocarbon
             production and natural gas volumes are expected to remain
             consistent with 1999 levels. In 2001, liquid hydrocarbon production
             is expected to increase by 10 to 15 percent over 2000 production
             levels and natural gas volumes are expected to increase by
             approximately 4 percent over 2000 levels. These projections are
             based on known discoveries and do not include any additions from
             potential or future acquisitions or future wildcat drilling.

                Petronius, in the Gulf of Mexico, was originally scheduled to
             begin production in the second quarter of 1999, but the project was
             delayed when the last platform topsides module fell into the sea
             during installation work. The lost module will have to be replaced.
             Third party insurance is expected to cover costs associated with
             the replacement and installation on the platform. First production
             is now expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2000.

                Marathon holds a 37.5% interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment
             Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy"), an incorporated joint venture
             company responsible for the overall management of the Sakhalin II
             project. This project includes development of the P-A oil field and
             the Lunskoye gas-condensate field, which are located 8-12 miles
             offshore Sakhalin Island in the Russian Far East Region. The
             Russian State Reserves Committee has approved estimated combined
             reserves for the P-A and Lunskoye fields of one billion gross
             barrels of liquid hydrocarbons and 14 trillion cubic feet of
             natural gas.

                In 1997, a Development Plan for the P-A license area, Phase I:
             Astokh Feature was approved. Offshore drilling and production
             facilities for the Astokh Feature were set in place on September 1,
             1998. Drilling of development wells commenced in December of 1998.
             First production from the Astokh Feature is scheduled for mid-1999,
             with sales forecast to average 45,000 gross bpd of oil annually as
             early as 2000. This rate is based on six months of offshore loading
             operations during the ice-free weather window at an estimated daily
             rate of 90,000 gross barrels. Marathon's equity share of reserves
             from primary production in the Astokh Feature is 80 million barrels
             of oil.

                The approved Development Plan also provides for further
             appraisal work for the remainder of the P-A field. An appraisal
             well was drilled during the summer weather window in 1998 and the
             results are being evaluated. Conceptual design work for further
             development of the P-A field, including pressure maintenance for
             the Astokh Feature, continues. With respect to the Lunskoye field,
             appraisal work and efforts to secure long-term gas sales markets
             continue. Commencement of gas production from the Lunskoye field,
             which will be contingent upon the conclusion of a gas sales
             contract, is anticipated to occur in 2005 or later.

                Late in 1997, the Sakhalin Energy consortium arranged a limited
             recourse project financing facility of $348 million. Sakhalin
             Energy borrowed the full amount of this facility in 1998 to fund
             Phase I expenditures and to repay amounts previously advanced to
             Sakhalin Energy by its shareholders.

                In the area of significant Russian legislation, the Russian
             Parliament passed a Production Sharing Agreement ("PSA") Amendments
             Law and a PSA Enabling Law, which brings other Russian legislation
             into conformance with the PSA Law. These laws were signed by
             President Yeltsin and enacted in 1999.

                At December 31, 1998, Marathon's investment in the Sakhalin II
             project was $275 million.

                The above discussion includes forward-looking statements with
             respect to worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production and natural gas
             volumes for 1999, 2000 and 2001, commencement of projects and dates
             of initial production. These statements are based on a number of
             assumptions, including (among others) prices, amount of capital
             available for exploration and development, worldwide supply

                                                                            U-53

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

             and demand for petroleum products, regulatory constraints, reserve
             estimates, production decline rates of mature fields, timing of
             commencing production from new wells, timing and results of future
             development drilling, reserve replacement rates and other
             geological, operating and economic considerations. In addition,
             development of new production properties in countries outside the
             United States may require protracted negotiations with host
             governments and is frequently subject to political considerations,
             such as tax regulations, which could adversely affect the timing
             and economics of projects. To the extent these assumptions prove
             inaccurate and/or negotiations and other considerations are not
             satisfactorily resolved, actual results could be materially
             different than present expectations.

                Downstream income of the Marathon Group is largely dependent
             upon refining crack spreads (the difference between light product
             prices and crude costs). Refined product margins have been
             historically volatile and vary with the level of economic activity
             in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate and the
             available supply of crude oil and refined products. Key external
             factors look promising for the refining and marketing industry.
             Demand for petroleum products is expected to grow modestly, due to
             a leveling of fuel efficiency in the passenger car fleet,
             increasing sales of light-truck and sport-utility vehicles which
             average fewer miles per gallon than passenger cars, and an
             increasing number of vehicle miles traveled. Refinery utilization
             rates are strong, reflecting the increased demand, which should be
             beneficial for MAP's refining margins. Also, increased highway
             construction funding should benefit MAP, the largest U.S. supplier
             of asphalt.

                As a result of Marathon and Ashland combining major elements of
             their downstream operations, MAP achieved approximately $150
             million in annual repeatable pre-tax operating efficiencies in 1998
             and has targeted an additional $100 million in 1999. MAP presently
             expects to derive efficiencies of $350 million annually on a pre-
             tax basis in 2001. This exceeds its original goal of achieving
             efficiencies of $200 million annually on a pre-tax basis.
             Efficiencies will continue to be identified in the logistical,
             retail marketing, wholesale marketing and refining operations, as
             well as administrative functions, that Marathon and Ashland
             transferred to MAP.

                MAP and a third party are constructing facilities to produce 800
             million pounds per year of polymer grade propylene and
             polypropylene at the Garyville refinery. MAP is building and will
             own and operate facilities to produce polymer grade propylene. The
             third party is constructing and will own and operate the
             polypropylene facilities and market its output. Production of the
             polymer grade propylene is scheduled to begin in the second quarter
             of 1999.

                MAP plans to build a pipeline from its Catlettsburg refinery to
             Columbus, Ohio. The wholly owned pipeline is expected to initially
             move about 50,000 bpd of refined products into central Ohio.
             Construction is expected to commence in the summer of 1999 after
             final regulatory approvals. The pipeline is expected to be
             operational in the first half of 2000.

                A project to increase crude throughput and light product output
             is being undertaken at MAP's Robinson, IL refinery. This project is
             expected to be completed in 2001.

                The above statements with respect to demand for petroleum
             products, the amount and timing of efficiencies to be realized by
             MAP, and the statements with respect to the propylene, pipeline and
             refinery improvement projects are forward looking statements. Some
             factors that could potentially cause actual results to differ
             materially from present expectations include (among others) the
             price of petroleum products, unanticipated costs or delays
             associated with implementing shared technology, completing
             logistical infrastructure projects, leveraging procurement
             strategies, levels of cash flow from operations, obtaining the
             necessary construction and environmental permits, unforeseen
             hazards such as weather conditions and regulatory constraints.

             Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

                The Marathon Group is executing action plans which include:

             . prioritizing and focusing on those computerized and automated
             systems and processes critical to the operations in terms of
             material operational, safety, environmental and financial risk to
             the company.

             . allocating and committing appropriate resources to fix the
             problem.

U-54

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

             . developing detailed contingency plans for those computerized and
             automated systems and processes critical to the operations in terms
             of material operational, safety, environmental and financial risk
             to the company.

             . communicating with, and aggressively pursuing, critical third
             parties to help ensure the Year 2000 readiness of their products
             and services through use of mailings, telephone contacts, and the
             inclusion of Year 2000 readiness language in purchase orders and
             contracts.

             . performing rigorous Year 2000 tests of critical systems.

             . participating in, and exchanging Year 2000 information with
             industry trade associations, such as the American Petroleum
             Institute (API).

             . engaging qualified outside engineering and information technology
             consulting firms to assist in the Year 2000 inventory, assessment
             and readiness.

                State of Readiness

                Readiness efforts and critical systems testing is 92% complete
             for Information Technology (IT) systems. The remaining systems are
             to be completed by end of the third quarter of 1999. Responses have
             been received from over 80% of the Marathon Group's third party
             software vendors, with 99% indicating that they are or will be Year
             2000 ready and will provide updated software on a timely basis.

                The Marathon Group has completed the inventory on 93% of the
             Non-Information Technology (Non-IT) systems. Assessment of these
             inventories is being completed to identify those systems that will
             require remediation. All Non-IT systems are scheduled to be ready
             by the end of the third quarter of 1999 with minor exceptions.
             Plant maintenance shutdowns scheduled for the fourth quarter of
             1999 will allow us to complete any final readiness efforts.

                The following chart provides the percent of completion for the
             inventory of systems and processes that may be affected by the Year
             2000 ("Y2K Inventory"), analysis performed to determine the Year
             2000 date impact of inventoried systems and processes ("Y2K Impact
             Assessment") and the Year 2000 readiness of the Marathon Group's
             Year 2000 inventory ("Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory"). The
             percent of completion for Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory
             includes all inventory items not date impacted, those items already
             Year 2000 ready and those corrected and made Year 2000 ready
             through the renovation/replacement, testing and implementation
             activities; however, the implementation of certain Year 2000 ready
             IT and Non-IT systems has been deferred until 1999, to avoid
             unnecessary disruption of operations.


                Third Parties

                Third parties are suppliers, customers and vendors, excluding
             third party software vendors discussed previously. Contacts have
             been made with all critical third parties to determine if they will
             be able to provide services to the Marathon Group after the Year
             2000. Follow-up continues with those third parties not responding
             or returning an unacceptable response. If it is determined that
             there is a significant risk, an effort will be made to work with
             such parties. If this is not successful, a new provider of the same
             services will be sought.

                The Costs to Address Year 2000 Issues

                The estimated costs associated with Year 2000 readiness, are
             approximately $36 million, including $19 million of incremental
             costs. This reflects an increase of $8 million from the previously
             reported estimate of total incremental costs. The estimated cost
             increase results primarily from increased use of external
             consultants and increased internal staffing of Y2K operational
             teams. Total costs incurred as of January 31, 1999, were $17
             million, including $8 million of incremental costs. As

                                                                            U-55

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

             Y2K impact assessment nears completion and the renovation planning,
             readiness implementation and testing evolve, the estimated costs
             may change.

                The Risks of the Company's Year 2000 Issues

                The most reasonably likely worst case Year 2000 scenario would
             be the inability of critical third party suppliers, such as utility
             providers, telecommunication companies, and other critical
             suppliers, such as drilling equipment suppliers, platform
             suppliers, crude oil suppliers and pipeline carriers, to continue
             providing their products and services. This could pose the greatest
             material operational, safety, environmental and/or financial risk
             to the company.

                In addition, the lack of accurate and timely Year 2000 date
             impact information from suppliers of automation and process control
             systems and processes is a concern. Without quality information
             from suppliers, specifically on embedded chip technology, some Year
             2000 problems could go undetected until after January 1, 2000.

                Contingency Planning

                Representatives of the Marathon Group have participated with a
             work group of the API Year 2000 Task force to develop a contingency
             plan format. This format includes guidelines to develop a plan that
             will cover the Year 2000 areas of concern. Many business unit
             contingency planning teams have been formed and are actively
             working on contingency plans for the systems and processes critical
             to the operations in terms of material operational, safety,
             environmental and financial risk to the company. These plans are to
             be completed and tested, when practical, by the end of the third
             quarter of 1999.

                The foregoing Year 2000 discussion includes forward-looking
             statements of the Marathon Group's efforts and management's
             expectations relating to Year 2000 readiness. These statements are
             based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the
             availability of programming and testing resources, vendors' ability
             to install or modify proprietary hardware and software,
             unanticipated problems identified in the ongoing Year 2000
             readiness review, the effectiveness and execution of contingency
             plans and the level of incremental costs associated with Year 2000
             readiness efforts. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect,
             actual results could differ materially from present expectations.

                The U. S. Steel Group

                The U. S. Steel Group includes U. S. Steel, which is engaged in
             the production and sale of steel mill products, coke, and taconite
             pellets; the management of mineral resources; domestic coal mining;
             real estate development; and engineering and consulting services.
             Certain business activities are conducted through joint ventures
             and partially-owned companies, such as USS/Kobe Steel Company
             ("USS/Kobe"), USS-POSCO Industries ("USS-POSCO"), PRO-TEC Coating
             Company ("PRO-TEC"), Transtar, Inc. ("Transtar"), Clairton 1314B
             Partnership, VSZ U. S. Steel, s. r.o. and RTI International Metals,
             Inc. ("RTI").

                In 1998, segment income for U. S. Steel operations decreased
             primarily due to lower average steel product prices, lower shipment
             volumes, and less efficient operating levels, resulting from an
             increase in imports and weak tubular markets.

                U. S. Steel Group revenues for each of the last three years are
             summarized in the following table, which is covered by the report
             of independent accountants.

             /(a)/Includes revenue from the sale of steel production
                  byproducts, engineering and consulting services, real estate
                  development and resource management.
             /(b)/For further details, see Note 9 to the USX Consolidated
                  Financial Statements.

U-56

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Total revenues decreased by $658 million in 1998 from 1997
             primarily due to lower average realized prices, lower steel
             shipment volumes, and lower income from affiliates. Total revenues
             increased by $271 million in 1997 from 1996 primarily due to higher
             average steel product prices and higher shipment volumes.

                U. S. Steel Group income from operations for the last three
             years was:

             /(a)/Includes income from the production and sale of steel mill
                  products, coke and taconite pellets; the management of mineral
                  resources; domestic coal mining; real estate development; and
                  engineering and consulting services.
             /(b)/Includes the portion of postretirement benefit costs and
                  certain other expenses principally attributable to former
                  business units of the U. S. Steel Group. Results in 1997
                  included charges of $9 million related to environmental
                  accruals and the adoption of SOP 96-1.
             /(c)/For further details, see Note 9 to the USX Consolidated
                  Financial Statements.

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations, which decreased $288
             million in 1998 from 1997, included a net favorable $30 million for
             an insurance litigation settlement pertaining to the 1995 Gary
             (Ind.) Works No. 8 blast furnace explosion and charges of $10
             million related to a voluntary workforce reduction plan. Results in
             1997 included a benefit of $40 million in insurance settlement
             payments related to the 1996 hearth breakout at Gary Works No. 13
             blast furnace and a $15 million gain on the sale of the plate mill
             at U. S. Steel's former Texas Works. In addition to the effects of
             these items, the decrease in segment income in 1998 for U. S. Steel
             operations was primarily due to lower average steel prices, lower
             shipments, less efficient operating levels, the cost effects of the
             10 day outage at Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace following a tap
             hole failure, and lower income from affiliates. These unfavorable
             items were partially offset by lower 1998 accruals for profit
             sharing.

                The increase in imports and weak tubular markets negatively
             affected steel shipment levels, steel product prices and operating
             levels in 1998. U. S. Steel shipments declined 8% in 1998 compared
             to 1997. In 1998, raw steel production was negatively affected by a
             planned reline at Gary Works No. 6 blast furnace, an unplanned
             blast furnace outage at the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, and
             the idling of certain facilities to control inventory as a result
             of the increase in imports. In 1998, raw steel capability
             utilization averaged 87.6%, compared to 96.5% in 1997.

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations increased $370 million
             in 1997 compared to 1996. Results in 1996 included $39 million of
             charges related to repair of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace
             and $13 million of charges related to a voluntary workforce
             reduction at the Fairless (Pa.) Works. In addition to the effects
             of these items, the increase in 1997 was primarily due to higher
             steel shipments, higher average realized steel prices, and improved
             operating efficiencies, including the full year availability of the
             Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace. These improvements were partially
             offset by higher 1997 accruals for profit sharing.

                The Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, which represents about half
             of Gary Works iron producing capacity and roughly one-fourth of U.
             S. Steel's iron capacity, was idled on April 2, 1996 due to a
             hearth breakout. In addition to direct repair costs, 1996 operating
             results were adversely affected by production inefficiencies at
             Gary, as well as at other U. S. Steel plants, reduced shipments and
             higher costs for purchased iron and semifinished steel. The total
             effect of this unplanned outage on 1996 segment income is estimated
             to have been more than $100 million. USX maintained property damage
             and business interruption insurance coverages for the No. 13 blast
             furnace hearth breakout and the 1995 Gary Works No. 8 blast furnace
             explosion, subject to a $50 million deductible per occurrence for

                                                                            U-57

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

             recoverable items. In 1998, USX and its insurance companies settled
             the Gary Works No. 8 blast furnace loss for approximately $30
             million (net of charges and reserves) in excess of the deductible.
             In 1997, USX and its insurance companies settled the Gary Works No.
             13 blast furnace loss for $40 million in excess of the deductible.

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations included pension costs
             (which are primarily noncash) allocated to the ongoing operations
             of U. S. Steel of $187 million, $169 million, and $172 million in
             1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Pension costs in 1998 included
             $10 million for termination benefits associated to a voluntary
             early retirement program, the settlements for which will
             principally occur in the first half of 1999.

                Items not allocated to segment

                Pension credits associated with pension plan assets and
             liabilities allocated to pre-1987 retirees and former businesses
             are not included in segment income for U. S. Steel operations.
             These pension credits, which are primarily noncash, totaled $373
             million in 1998, compared to $313 million and $330 million in 1997
             and 1996 respectively.

                Pension credits, combined with pension costs included in segment
             income for U. S. Steel operations, resulted in net pension credits
             of $186 million in 1998, $144 million in 1997 and $158 million in
             1996. Net pension credits are expected to be approximately $205
             million in 1999. Future net pension credits can be volatile
             dependent upon the future marketplace performance of plan assets,
             changes in actuarial assumptions regarding such factors as a
             selection of a discount rate and rate of return on assets, changes
             in the amortization levels of transition amounts or prior period
             service costs, plan amendments affecting benefit payout levels and
             profile changes in the beneficiary populations being valued.
             Changes in any of these factors could cause net pension credits to
             change. To the extent net pension credits decline in the future,
             income from operations would be adversely affected. For additional
             information on pensions, see Note 11 to the USX Consolidated
             Financial Statements.

                Outlook for 1999 U. S. Steel Group

                U. S. Steel expects that shipment volumes and average steel
             product prices will continue to be impacted by the effects of high
             levels of low priced steel imports and growing domestic minimill
             production capability for flat rolled products. Scrap prices are
             currently at low levels and provide minimills a cost advantage. In
             recent years, demand for steel in the United States has been at
             high levels. Any weakness in the U.S. economy for capital goods or
             consumer durables could adversely impact U. S. Steel Group's
             product prices and shipment levels.

                On August 1, 1999, U. S. Steel, along with several major steel
             competitors, faces the expiration of the labor agreement with the
             USWA. U. S. Steel's ability to negotiate an acceptable labor
             contract is essential to ongoing operations. Any labor
             interruptions could have an adverse effect on operations, financial
             results and cash flow.

                Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated
             30%, 24% and 23% of the domestic steel market for the years 1998,
             1997 and 1996, respectively. In November 1998, steel imports
             accounted for an estimated 37% of the domestic steel market. Steel
             imports of hot rolled and cold rolled steel increased 42% in 1998,
             compared to 1997. Steel imports of plates increased 75% in 1998,
             compared to 1997.

                The preceding statements concerning anticipated steel demand,
             steel pricing, and shipment levels are forward-looking and are
             based upon assumptions as to future product prices and mix, and
             levels of steel production capability, production and shipments.
             These forward-looking statements can be affected by imports,
             domestic and international economies, domestic production capacity,
             and customer demand. In the event these assumptions prove to be
             inaccurate, actual results may differ significantly from those
             presently anticipated.

U-58

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

                Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

                A multi-functional Year 2000 task force continues to execute a
             preparedness plan which addresses readiness requirements for
             business computer systems, technical infrastructure, end-user
             computing, third parties, manufacturing, environmental operations,
             systems products produced and sold, and dedicated R&D test
             facilities. The U. S. Steel Group is executing a Year 2000
             readiness plan which includes:

             . prioritizing and focusing on those computerized and automated
             systems and processes critical to the operations in terms of
             material safety, operational, environmental, quality and financial
             risk to the company.

             . allocating and committing appropriate resources to fix the
             problem.

             . communicating with, and aggressively pursuing, critical third
             parties to help ensure the Year 2000 readiness of their products
             and services through use of mailings, telephone contacts, on-site
             assessments and the inclusion of Year 2000 readiness language in
             purchase orders and contracts.

             . performing rigorous Year 2000 tests of critical systems.

             . participating in, and exchanging Year 2000 information with
             industry trade associations, such as the American Iron & Steel
             Institute, Association of Iron & Steel Engineers and the Steel
             Industry Systems Association.

             . engaging qualified outside engineering and information technology
             consulting firms to assist in the Year 2000 impact assessment and
             readiness effort.

                State of Readiness

                The U. S. Steel Group's progress on achieving Year 2000
             readiness is currently on pace with our objectives. Certain
             systems/processes are to be replaced and/or upgraded with third-
             party Year 2000 ready products and services. All systems and
             processes are targeted to be Year 2000 ready, including integration
             testing, by the end of the third quarter, 1999. This schedule may
             be impacted by the availability of information and services from
             third-party suppliers/vendors on the Year 2000 readiness of their
             products and services. Generally, efforts in 1999 will be primarily
             devoted to both Year 2000 systems and integration testing, tracking
             of the readiness of third parties, developing contingency plans and
             verifying the state of Year 2000 readiness.

                The following chart provides the percent of completion for the
             inventory of systems and processes that may be affected by the year
             2000 ("Y2K Inventory"), the analysis performed to determine the
             Year 2000 date impact on inventoried systems and processes ("Y2K
             Impact Assessment") and the year 2000 readiness of the U. S. Steel
             Group's year 2000 inventory ("Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory").
             The percent of completion for Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory
             includes all inventory items not date impacted, those items already
             Year 2000 ready and those corrected and made Year 2000 ready
             through the renovation/replacement, testing and implementation
             activities.


                Third Parties

                The U. S. Steel Group continues to review its third party
             (including, but not limited to outside processors, process control
             systems and hardware suppliers, telecommunication providers, and
             transportation carriers) relationships to determine those critical
             to its operations. The majority of contacts have been made with
             critical third parties to determine if they will be able to provide
             their product and service to the U. S. Steel Group after the Year
             2000. An aggressive follow-up process with those third parties not
             responding or returning an unacceptable response is underway.
             Communications with U. S. Steel Group's third parties is an on-
             going process which includes mailings, telephone contacts and on-
             site visits. If it is determined that there is a significant risk
             with the third

                                                                            U-59

 
                Management's Discussion and Analysis CONTINUED

             parties, an effort will be made to work with the third parties to
             resolve the issue, or a new provider of the same products or
             services will be investigated and secured. As of December 31, 1998,
             the U. S. Steel Group has sent out approximately 700 inquiries and
             received over 600 responses.

                The Costs to Address Year 2000 Issues

                The current estimated cost associated with Year 2000 readiness,
             is approximately $29 million, which includes $16 million in
             incremental cost. Total costs incurred as of January 31, 1999, were
             $14 million, including $6 million of incremental costs. As Y2K
             Impact Assessment nears completion and the renovation planning,
             readiness implementation and testing evolve, the estimated costs
             may change.

                Year 2000 Risks to the Company

                The most reasonably likely worst case Year 2000 scenario would
             be the inability of third party suppliers, such as utility
             providers, telecommunication companies, outside processors, and
             other critical suppliers, to continue providing their products and
             services. This could pose the greatest material safety,
             operational, environmental, quality and/or financial risk to the
             company.

                In addition, the lack of accurate and timely Year 2000 date
             impact information from suppliers of automation and process control
             systems and processes is a concern to the U. S. Steel Group.
             Without timely and quality information from suppliers, specifically
             on embedded chip technology, schedules for attaining readiness can
             be impacted and some Year 2000 problems could go undetected during
             the transition to the year 2000.

                Contingency Planning

                General guidelines have been issued to all business units for
             creating contingency plans to address those critical facets of
             operations that can cause a material safety, operational,
             environmental, or financial risk to the company. Representatives of
             the U. S. Steel Group are working with the Association of Iron &
             Steel Engineers and the American Iron & Steel Institute to develop
             contingency planning guidelines to address issues specific to the
             steel industry. These guidelines are intended to help entities
             develop specific contingency plans that will cover their associated
             Year 2000 risks and areas of concern. The U. S. Steel Group
             currently expects to have contingency plans completed and tested,
             when practical, by the middle of 1999.

                This discussion includes forward-looking statements of the U. S.
             Steel Group's efforts and management's expectations relating to
             Year 2000 readiness. The Steel Group's ability to achieve Year 2000
             readiness and the level of incremental costs associated therewith,
             could be adversely impacted by, among other things, the
             availability and cost of programming and testing resources,
             vendors' ability to install or modify proprietary hardware and
             software and unanticipated problems identified in the ongoing Year
             2000 readiness review. Also, the U. S. Steel Group's ability to
             mitigate Year 2000 risks could be adversely impacted by the ability
             to complete, and the effectiveness of, contingency plans.

                The Delhi Group

                Effective October 31, 1997, USX sold Delhi Gas Pipeline
             Corporation and other subsidiaries of USX that comprise all of the
             Delhi Group.

U-60

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


             Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments

                USX employs a strategic approach of limiting its use of
             derivative instruments principally to hedging activities, whereby
             gains and losses are generally offset by price changes in the
             underlying commodity. Based on this approach, combined with risk
             assessment procedures and internal controls, management believes
             that its use of derivative instruments does not expose USX to
             material risk; however, the use of derivative instruments for
             hedging activities could materially affect USX's results of
             operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. This is
             primarily because use of such instruments may limit the company's
             ability to benefit from favorable price movements. However,
             management believes that use of these instruments will not have a
             material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a
             summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments,
             see Note 1 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.

             Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks

                In the normal course of its business, USX is exposed to market
             risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or
             sale of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and steel
             products. To a lesser extent, USX is exposed to the risk of price
             fluctuations on coal, coke, natural gas liquids, electricity,
             petroleum feedstocks and certain nonferrous metals used as raw
             materials. USX is also exposed to effects of price fluctuations on
             the value of its commodity inventories.

                USX's market risk strategy has generally been to obtain
             competitive prices for its products and services and allow
             operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by
             supply and demand. However, USX uses fixed-price contracts and
             derivative commodity instruments to manage a relatively small
             portion of its commodity price risk. USX uses fixed-price contracts
             for portions of its natural gas production to manage exposure to
             fluctuations in natural gas prices. In addition, USX uses
             derivative commodity instruments such as exchange-traded futures
             contracts and options, and over-the-counter ("OTC") commodity swaps
             and options to manage exposure to market risk related to the
             purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas, refined
             products, certain nonferrous metals and electricity. USX's
             strategic approach is to limit the use of these instruments
             principally to hedging activities. Accordingly, gains and losses on
             derivative commodity instruments are generally offset by the
             effects of price changes in the underlying commodity. However,
             certain derivative commodity instruments have the effect of
             restoring the equity portion of fixed-price sales of natural gas to
             variable market-based pricing. These instruments are used as part
             of USX's overall risk management programs.

                                                                            U-61

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk  continued


                Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pretax income
             of hypothetical 10% and 25% changes in commodity prices for open
             derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 1998, are
             provided in the following table:/(a)/


        /(a)/  Gains and losses on derivative commodity instruments are
               generally offset by price changes in the underlying commodity.
               Effects of these offsets are not reflected in the sensitivity
               analyses. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on
               pretax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% changes in closing
               commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31,
               1998. Marathon Group and U. S. Steel Group management evaluate
               their portfolios of derivative commodity instruments on an
               ongoing basis and add or revise strategies to reflect anticipated
               market conditions and changes in risk profiles. Changes to the
               portfolios subsequent to December 31, 1998, would cause future
               pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the
               table.
        /(b)/  The number of net open contracts varied throughout 1998,
               from a low of 1,268 contracts at January 1, to a high of 17,359
               contracts at September 24, and averaged 8,171 for the year. The
               derivative commodity instruments used and hedging positions taken
               also varied throughout 1998, and will continue to vary in the
               future. Because of these variations in the composition of the
               portfolio over time, the number of open contracts, by itself,
               cannot be used to predict future income effects.
        /(c)/  The calculation of sensitivity amounts for basis swaps assumes
               that the physical and paper indices are perfectly correlated.
               Gains and losses on options are based on changes in intrinsic
               value only.
        /(d)/  The direction of the price change used in calculating the
               sensitivity amount for each commodity reflects that which would
               result in the largest incremental decrease in pretax income when
               applied to the derivative commodity instruments used to hedge
               that commodity.

                While derivative commodity instruments are generally used to
             reduce risks from unfavorable commodity price movements, they also
             may limit the opportunity to benefit from favorable movements.
             During the fourth quarter of 1996, certain hedging strategies
             matured which limited the Marathon Group's ability to benefit from
             favorable market price increases on the sales of equity crude oil
             and natural gas production, resulting in pretax hedging losses of
             $33 million. In total, Marathon's upstream operations recorded net
             pretax hedging losses of $3 million in 1998, compared with net
             losses of $3 million in 1997, and net losses of $38 million in
             1996.

                Marathon's downstream operations generally use derivative
             commodity instruments to lock-in costs of certain raw material
             purchases, to protect carrying values of inventories and to protect
             margins on fixed-price sales of refined products. In total,
             Marathon's downstream operations recorded net pretax hedging gains,
             net of the 38% minority interest in MAP, of $28 million in 1998,
             compared with net gains of $29 million in 1997, and net losses of
             $22 million in 1996. Essentially, all of these upstream and
             downstream gains and losses were offset by changes in the prices of
             the underlying hedged commodities, with the net effect
             approximating the targeted results of the hedging strategies.

                The U. S. Steel Group uses OTC commodity swaps to manage
             exposure to market risk related to the purchase of natural gas,
             heating oil and certain nonferrous metals. The U. S. Steel Group
             recorded net pretax hedging losses of $6 million in 1998, compared
             with net gains of $5 million in 1997 and net gains of $21 million
             in 1996. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the
             realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities.

U-62

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk  continued



                For additional quantitative information relating to derivative
             commodity instruments, including aggregate contract values and fair
             values, where appropriate, see Note 27 to the USX Consolidated
             Financial Statements.

                USX is subject to basis risk, caused by factors that affect the
             relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in
             derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the
             underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently
             based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices
             experienced in local markets. For example, New York Mercantile
             Exchange ("NYMEX") contracts for natural gas are priced at
             Louisiana's Henry Hub, while the underlying quantities of natural
             gas may be produced and sold in the Western United States at prices
             that do not move in strict correlation with NYMEX prices. To the
             extent that commodity price changes in one region are not reflected
             in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer
             provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased exposure to
             basis risk. These regional price differences could yield favorable
             or unfavorable results. OTC transactions are being used to manage
             exposure to a portion of basis risk.

                USX is subject to liquidity risk, caused by timing delays in
             liquidating contract positions due to a potential inability to
             identify a counterparty willing to accept an offsetting position.
             Due to the large number of active participants, liquidity risk
             exposure is relatively low for exchange-traded transactions.

             Interest Rate Risk

                USX is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on
             certain of its non-derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity
             analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10%
             decrease in year-end 1998 interest rates on the fair value of USX's
             non-derivative financial instruments, is provided in the following
             table:

        /(a)/  Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
               notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest, approximate
               carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in
               interest rates due to the short-term maturity of the instruments.
               Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table.
        /(b)/  See Note 28 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.
        /(c)/  Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated
               incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest
               rates at December 31, 1998, on the fair value of USX's non-
               derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this
               assumes a 10% decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity
               of USX's long-term debt at December 31, 1998.
        /(d)/  For additional information, see Note 15 to the USX
               Consolidated Financial Statements.
        /(e)/  Fair value was based on market prices where available, or
               current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and
               maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the USX
               Consolidated Financial Statements.
        /(f)/  See Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.

                At December 31, 1998, USX's portfolio of long-term debt was
             comprised primarily of fixed-rate instruments. Therefore, the fair
             value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of
             interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the
             $120 million increase in the fair value of long-term debt assuming
             a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. However, USX's
             sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases
             in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect
             USX's results and cash flows only to the extent that USX elected to
             repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed-rate
             debt portfolio at prices above carrying value.

                                                                            U-63

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk  continued



             Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

                USX is subject to the risk of price fluctuations related to
             anticipated revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for
             capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated
             in currencies other than U.S. dollars. USX has not generally used
             derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, USX has made
             limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to
             certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 1998, USX had
             open Canadian dollar forward purchase contracts with a total
             carrying value of $36 million. A 10% increase in the December 31,
             1998, Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar forward rate, would result in
             a charge to income of $3 million.

             Equity Price Risk

                USX is subject to equity price risk resulting from its issuance
             in December 1996 of $117 million of 6-3/4% Exchangeable Notes Due
             February 1, 2000 ("Indexed Debt"). At maturity, USX must exchange
             the notes for shares of RTI International Metals, Inc. (formerly
             RMI Titanium Company) ("RTI") common stock, or redeem the notes for
             the equivalent amount of cash. Each quarter, USX adjusts the
             carrying value of Indexed Debt to settlement value, based on
             changes in the value of RTI common stock. Any resulting adjustment
             is charged or credited to income and included in interest and other
             financial costs. During 1998, USX recorded a favorable adjustment
             of $44 million. At year-end 1998, a hypothetical 10% increase in
             the value of RTI common stock would have resulted in a $7 million
             unfavorable effect on pretax income. USX holds a 26% interest in
             RTI which is accounted for under the equity method. At December 31,
             1998, USX's investment in RTI common stock had a fair market value
             of $77 million and USX's carrying value of the Indexed Debt was $69
             million. The unfavorable effects on income described above would
             generally be offset by changes in the market value of USX's
             investment in RTI. However, under the equity method of accounting,
             USX cannot recognize in income these changes in the market value
             until the investment is liquidated.

             Safe Harbor

                USX's quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk
             include forward-looking statements with respect to management's
             opinion about risks associated with USX's use of derivative
             instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with
             respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for
             crude oil, refined products, steel products and certain raw
             materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be
             inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to USX's hedging programs
             may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking
             statements.

U-64

 
         Marathon Group



                Index to Financial Statements, Supplementary Data,
                Management's Discussion and Analysis, and
                Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
 
                                                                Page
                                                                ----

Management's Report..........................................    M-1

Audited Financial Statements:

 Report of Independent Accountants............................   M-1

 Statement of Operations......................................   M-2

 Balance Sheet................................................   M-3

 Statement of Cash Flows......................................   M-4

 Notes to Financial Statements................................   M-5

Selected Quarterly Financial Data............................    M-21
                                                              
Principal Unconsolidated Affiliates..........................    M-21
                                                              
Supplementary Information....................................    M-21
                                                              
Five-Year Operating Summary..................................    M-22
                                                              
Five-Year Financial Summary..................................    M-24
                                                              
Management's Discussion and Analysis.........................    M-25
                                                              
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk...    M-37

 
             Management's Report

             The accompanying financial statements of the Marathon Group are
             the responsibility of and have been prepared by USX Corporation
             (USX) in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
             They necessarily include some amounts that are based on best
             judgments and estimates. The Marathon Group financial information
             displayed in other sections of this report is consistent with these
             financial statements.

                       USX seeks to assure the objectivity and integrity of its
             financial records by careful selection of its managers, by
             organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of
             responsibility and by communications programs aimed at assuring
             that its policies and methods are understood throughout the
             organization.

                       USX has a comprehensive formalized system of internal
             accounting controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that
             assets are safeguarded and that financial records are reliable.
             Appropriate management monitors the system for compliance, and the
             internal auditors independently measure its effectiveness and
             recommend possible improvements thereto. In addition, as part of
             their audit of the financial statements, USX's independent
             accountants, who are elected by the stockholders, review and test
             the internal accounting controls selectively to establish a basis
             of reliance thereon in determining the nature, extent and timing of
             audit tests to be applied.

                       The Board of Directors pursues its oversight role in the
             area of financial reporting and internal accounting control through
             its Audit Committee. This Committee, composed solely of
             nonmanagement directors, regularly meets (jointly and separately)
             with the independent accountants, management and internal auditors
             to monitor the proper discharge by each of its responsibilities
             relative to internal accounting controls and the consolidated and
             group financial statements.

 
 
Thomas J. Usher                 Robert M. Hernandez          Kenneth L. Matheny
Chairman, Board of Directors    Vice Chairman                Vice President
& Chief Executive Officer       & Chief Financial Officer    & Comptroller


             Report of Independent Accountants

             To the Stockholders of USX Corporation:

             In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements appearing
             on pages M-2 through M-20 present fairly, in all material respects,
             the financial position of the Marathon Group at December 31, 1998
             and 1997, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for
             each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in
             conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These
             financial statements are the responsibility of USX' s management;
             our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
             statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
             statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
             which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
             reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
             free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
             test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
             financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
             significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
             overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
             audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

                       The Marathon Group is a business unit of USX Corporation
             (as described in Note 1, page M-5); accordingly, the financial
             statements of the Marathon Group should be read in connection with
             the consolidated financial statements of USX Corporation.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15219-2794
February 9, 1999

                                                                             M-1

 

             See Note 23, for a description and computation of income per common
               share.
             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
               statements.

M-2

 

             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
               statements.

                                                                             M-3

 

             See Note 14, for supplemental cash flow information.
             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
               statements.

M-4

 
             Notes to Financial Statements

1. Basis of Presentation

             After the redemption of the USX -- Delhi Group stock on January
             26, 1998, USX Corporation (USX) has two classes of common stock:
             USX -- Marathon Group Common Stock (Marathon Stock) and USX --
             U. S. Steel Group Common Stock (Steel Stock), which are intended
             to reflect the performance of the Marathon Group and the U. S. 
             Steel Group, respectively.

                       The financial statements of the Marathon Group include
             the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for
             the businesses of Marathon Oil Company (Marathon) and certain other
             subsidiaries of USX, and a portion of the corporate assets and
             liabilities and related transactions which are not separately
             identified with ongoing operating units of USX. The Marathon Group
             financial statements are prepared using the amounts included in the
             USX consolidated financial statements. For a description of the
             Marathon Group's operating segments, see Note 11.

                       Although the financial statements of the Marathon Group
             and the U. S. Steel Group separately report the assets, liabilities
             (including contingent liabilities) and stockholders' equity of USX
             attributed to each such Group, such attribution of assets,
             liabilities (including contingent liabilities) and stockholders'
             equity between the Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group for the
             purpose of preparing their respective financial statements does not
             affect legal title to such assets or responsibility for such
             liabilities. Holders of Marathon Stock and Steel Stock are holders
             of common stock of USX and continue to be subject to all the risks
             associated with an investment in USX and all of its businesses and
             liabilities. Financial impacts arising from one Group that affect
             the overall cost of USX's capital could affect the results of
             operations and financial condition of the other Group. In addition,
             net losses of either Group, as well as dividends and distributions
             on any class of USX Common Stock or series of preferred stock and
             repurchases of any class of USX Common Stock or series of preferred
             stock at prices in excess of par or stated value, will reduce the
             funds of USX legally available for payment of dividends on both
             classes of Common Stock. Accordingly, the USX consolidated
             financial information should be read in connection with the
             Marathon Group financial information.

2. Summary of Principal Accounting Policies

                Principles applied in consolidation -- These financial
             statements include the accounts of the businesses comprising the
             Marathon Group. The Marathon Group and the U. S. Steel Group
             financial statements, taken together, comprise all of the accounts
             included in the USX consolidated financial statements.

                       Investments in unincorporated oil and gas joint ventures,
             undivided interest pipelines and jointly owned gas processing
             plants are consolidated on a pro rata basis.

                       Investments in other entities over which the Marathon
             Group has significant influence are accounted for using the equity
             method of accounting and are carried at the Marathon Group's share
             of net assets plus loans and advances.

                       Investments in other companies whose stock is publicly
             traded are carried at market value. The difference between the cost
             of these investments and market value is recorded in other
             comprehensive income (net of tax). Investments in companies whose
             stock has no readily determinable fair value are carried at cost.

                Use of estimates -- Generally accepted accounting principles
             require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
             the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
             contingent assets and liabilities at year-end and the reported
             amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Significant items
             subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying
             value of long-lived assets; valuation allowances for receivables,
             inventories and deferred income tax assets; environmental
             liabilities; liabilities for potential tax deficiencies and
             potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and
             obligations related to employee benefits. Additionally, certain
             estimated liabilities are recorded when management commits to a
             plan to close an operating facility or to exit a business activity.
             Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions
             used.

                Revenue recognition -- Revenues principally include sales,
             dividend and affiliate income, gains or losses on the disposal of
             assets and gains or losses from changes in ownership interests.

                       Sales are recognized when products are shipped or
             services are provided to customers. Consumer excise taxes on
             petroleum products and merchandise and matching crude oil and
             refined products buy/sell transactions settled in cash are included
             in both revenues and costs and expenses, with no effect on income.

                                                                             M-5

 
                       Dividend and affiliate income includes the Marathon
             Group's proportionate share of income from equity method
             investments and dividend income from other investments. Dividend
             income is recognized when dividend payments are received.

                       When long-lived assets depreciated on an individual basis
             are sold or otherwise disposed of, any gains or losses are
             reflected in income. Such gains or losses on the disposal of long-
             lived assets are recognized when title passes to the buyer and, if
             applicable, all significant regulatory approvals are received.
             Proceeds from disposal of long-lived assets depreciated on a group
             basis are credited to accumulated depreciation, depletion and
             amortization with no immediate effect on income.

                       Gains or losses from a change in ownership of a
             consolidated subsidiary or an unconsolidated affiliate are
             recognized in revenues in the period of change.

             Cash and cash equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents include
             cash on hand and on deposit and investments in highly liquid debt
             instruments with maturities generally of three months or less.

             Inventories -- Inventories are carried at lower of cost or market.
             Cost of inventories is determined primarily under the last-in,
             first-out (LIFO) method.

             Derivative instruments -- The Marathon Group engages in commodity
             and currency risk management activities within the normal course of
             its business as an end-user of derivative instruments (Note 25).
             Management is authorized to manage exposure to price fluctuations
             related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural
             gas, refined products and electricity through the use of a variety
             of derivative financial and nonfinancial instruments. Derivative
             financial instruments require settlement in cash and include such
             instruments as over-the-counter (OTC) commodity swap agreements and
             OTC commodity options. Derivative nonfinancial instruments require
             or permit settlement by delivery of commodities and include
             exchange-traded commodity futures contracts and options. At times,
             derivative positions are closed, prior to maturity, simultaneous
             with the underlying physical transaction and the effects are
             recognized in income accordingly. The Marathon Group's practice
             does not permit derivative positions to remain open if the
             underlying physical market risk has been removed. Derivative
             instruments relating to fixed price sales of equity production are
             marked-to-market in the current period and the related income
             effects are included within income from operations. All other
             changes in the market value of derivative instruments are deferred,
             including both closed and open positions, and are subsequently
             recognized in income, as sales or cost of sales, in the same period
             as the underlying transaction. Premiums on all commodity-based
             option contracts are initially recorded based on the amount paid or
             received; the options' market value is subsequently recorded as a
             receivable or payable, as appropriate. The margin receivable
             accounts required for open commodity contracts reflect changes in
             the market prices of the underlying commodity and are settled on a
             daily basis.

                       Forward exchange contracts are used to manage currency
             risks related to commitments for capital expenditures and existing
             assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. Gains or
             losses related to firm commitments are deferred and included with
             the underlying transaction; all other gains or losses are
             recognized in income in the current period as sales, cost of sales,
             interest income or expense, or other income, as appropriate.
             Forward exchange contract values are included in receivables or
             payables, as appropriate.

                       Recorded deferred gains or losses are reflected within
             other current and noncurrent assets or accounts payable and
             deferred credits and other liabilities. Cash flows from the use of
             derivative instruments are reported in the same category as the
             hedged item in the statement of cash flows.

             Exploration and development -- The Marathon Group follows the
             successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas exploration
             and development.

             Gas balancing -- The Marathon Group follows the sales method of
             accounting for gas production imbalances.

             Long-lived assets -- Depreciation and depletion of oil and gas
             producing properties are computed using predetermined rates based
             upon estimated proved oil and gas reserves applied on a units-of-
             production method. Other items of property, plant and equipment are
             depreciated principally by the straight-line method.

                       The Marathon Group evaluates impairment of its oil and
             gas producing assets primarily on a field-by-field basis. Other
             assets are evaluated on an individual asset basis or by logical
             groupings of assets. Assets deemed to be impaired are written down
             to their fair value, including any related goodwill, using
             discounted future cash flows and, if available, comparable market
             values.

             Environmental liabilities -- The Marathon Group provides for
             remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to
             remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is
             reasonably determinable. Generally, the timing of remediation
             accruals coincides with completion of a feasibility study or the
             commitment to a formal plan of action. Remediation liabilities are
             accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposure and are
             discounted in certain instances. If recoveries of remediation costs
             from third parties are probable, a receivable is recorded.
             Estimated abandonment and dismantlement costs of offshore
             production platforms are accrued based upon estimated proved oil
             and gas reserves on a units-of-production method.

M-6

 
             Insurance -- The Marathon Group is insured for catastrophic
             casualty and certain property and business interruption exposures,
             as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract.
             Costs resulting from noninsured losses are charged against income
             upon occurrence.

             Reclassifications -- Certain reclassifications of prior years'
             data have been made to conform to 1998 classifications.

3. New Accounting Standards

             The following accounting standards were adopted by USX:

                Reporting comprehensive income -- Effective January 1, 1998, USX
                adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130,
                "Reporting Comprehensive Income". This Standard establishes
                requirements for reporting and display of comprehensive income
                and its components in the financial statements. Comprehensive
                income is defined as the change in equity of a business
                enterprise during a period from transactions and other events
                from nonowner sources. It includes all changes in equity during
                a period except those resulting from investments by and
                distributions to owners. See disclosures of comprehensive income
                at Note 18 and on page U-7 of the USX consolidated financial
                statements.

                Disclosures of operating segments -- USX adopted in 1998,
                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,
                "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
                Information", which establishes new standards for reporting
                information about operating segments and related disclosures
                about products and services, geographic areas and major
                customers. The most significant new requirement of this Standard
                is that reportable operating segments be based on an
                enterprise's internally reported business segments. See
                disclosures of operating segments at Note 11.

                Disclosures of postretirement benefits -- USX adopted in 1998,
                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132, "Employers'
                Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits"
                (SFAS No. 132), which revises and standardizes the reporting
                requirements for postretirement benefits. However, the Standard
                does not change the measurement and recognition of those
                benefits. The Marathon Group has complied with SFAS No. 132 by
                disclosing pension and other postretirement benefits at Note 15.

                Environmental remediation liabilities -- Effective January 1,
                1997, USX adopted American Institute of Certified Public
                Accountants Statement of Position No. 96-1, "Environmental
                Remediation Liabilities" (SOP 96-1), which provides additional
                interpretation of existing accounting standards related to
                recognition, measurement and disclosure of environmental
                remediation liabilities. As a result of adopting SOP 96-1, the
                Marathon Group identified additional environmental remediation
                liabilities of $11 million. Estimated receivables for
                recoverable costs related to adoption of SOP 96-1 were $4
                million. The net unfavorable effect of adoption on the Marathon
                Group's income from operations at January 1, 1997, was $7
                million.

                In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
             issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
             "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
             (SFAS No. 133). This new Standard requires recognition of all
             derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair value. SFAS No.
             133 may result in additional volatility in both current period
             earnings and other comprehensive income as a result of recording
             recognized and unrecognized gains and losses resulting from changes
             in the fair value of derivative instruments. SFAS No. 133 requires
             a comprehensive review of all outstanding derivative instruments to
             determine whether or not their use meets the hedge accounting
             criteria. It is possible that there will be derivative instruments
             employed in our businesses that do not meet all of the designated
             hedge criteria and they will be reflected in income on a mark-to-
             market basis. Based upon the strategies currently employed by the
             Marathon Group and the level of activity related to forward
             exchange contracts and commodity-based derivative instruments in
             recent periods, the Marathon Group does not anticipate the effect
             of adoption to have a material impact on either financial position
             or results of operations. The Marathon Group plans to adopt SFAS
             No. 133 effective January 1, 2000, as required.

                                                                             M-7

 
4. Corporate Activities

             Financial activities -- As a matter of policy, USX manages most
             financial activities on a centralized, consolidated basis. Such
             financial activities include the investment of surplus cash; the
             issuance, repayment and repurchase of short-term and long-term
             debt; the issuance, repurchase and redemption of preferred stock;
             and the issuance and repurchase of common stock. Transactions
             related primarily to invested cash, short-term and long-term debt
             (including convertible debt), related net interest and other
             financial costs, and preferred stock and related dividends are
             attributed to the Marathon Group, the U. S. Steel Group and, prior
             to November 1, 1997, the Delhi Group based upon the cash flows of
             each group for the periods presented and the initial capital
             structure of each group. Most financing transactions are attributed
             to and reflected in the financial statements of all groups. See
             Note 10, for the Marathon Group's portion of USX's financial
             activities attributed to all groups. However, transactions such as
             leases, certain collaterized financings, certain indexed debt
             instruments, financial activities of consolidated entities which
             are less than wholly owned by USX and transactions related to
             securities convertible solely into any one class of common stock
             are or will be specifically attributed to and reflected in their
             entirety in the financial statements of the group to which they
             relate.

             Corporate general and administrative costs -- Corporate general
             and administrative costs are allocated to the Marathon Group, the
             U. S. Steel Group and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi Group
             based upon utilization or other methods management believes to be
             reasonable and which consider certain measures of business
             activities, such as employment, investments and sales. The costs
             allocated to the Marathon Group were $28 million in 1998, $37
             million in 1997 and $30 million in 1996, and primarily consist of
             employment costs including pension effects, professional services,
             facilities and other related costs associated with corporate
             activities.

             Income taxes -- All members of the USX affiliated group are
             included in the consolidated United States federal income tax
             return filed by USX. Accordingly, the provision for federal income
             taxes and the related payments or refunds of tax are determined on
             a consolidated basis. The consolidated provision and the related
             tax payments or refunds have been reflected in the Marathon Group,
             the U. S. Steel Group and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi
             Group financial statements in accordance with USX's tax allocation
             policy. In general, such policy provides that the consolidated tax
             provision and related tax payments or refunds are allocated among
             the Marathon Group, the U. S. Steel Group and, prior to November 1,
             1997, the Delhi Group, for group financial statement purposes,
             based principally upon the financial income, taxable income,
             credits, preferences and other amounts directly related to the
             respective groups.

                       For tax provision and settlement purposes, tax benefits
             resulting from attributes (principally net operating losses and
             various tax credits), which cannot be utilized by one of the groups
             on a separate return basis but which can be utilized on a
             consolidated basis in that year or in a carryback year, are
             allocated to the group that generated the attributes. To the extent
             that one of the groups is allocated a consolidated tax attribute
             which, as a result of expiration or otherwise, is not ultimately
             utilized on the consolidated tax return, the prior years'
             allocation of such attribute is adjusted such that the effect of
             the expiration is borne by the group that generated the attribute.
             Also, if a tax attribute cannot be utilized on a consolidated basis
             in the year generated or in a carryback year, the prior years'
             allocation of such consolidated tax effects is adjusted in a
             subsequent year to the extent necessary to allocate the tax
             benefits to the group that would have realized the tax benefits on
             a separate return basis. As a result, the allocated group amounts
             of taxes payable or refundable are not necessarily comparable to
             those that would have resulted if the groups had filed separate tax
             returns.

5. Business Combinations

             In August 1998, Marathon acquired Tarragon Oil and Gas Limited
             (Tarragon), a Canadian oil and gas exploration and production
             company. Securityholders of Tarragon received, at their election,
             Cdn$14.25 for each Tarragon share, or the economic equivalent in
             Exchangeable Shares of an indirect Canadian subsidiary of Marathon,
             which are exchangeable solely on a one-for-one basis into Marathon
             Stock. The purchase price included cash payments of $686 million,
             issuance of 878,074 Exchangeable Shares valued at $29 million and
             the assumption of $345 million in debt.

                       The Exchangeable Shares are exchangeable at the option of
             the holder at any time and automatically redeemable on August 11,
             2003 (and, in certain circumstances, as early as August 11, 2001).
             The holders of Exchangeable Shares are entitled to receive declared
             dividends equivalent to dividends declared from time to time by USX
             on Marathon Stock.

                       Marathon accounted for the acquisition using the purchase
             method of accounting. The 1998 results of operations include the
             operations of Marathon Canada Limited, formerly known as Tarragon,
             commencing August 12, 1998.

M-8

 
                       During 1997, Marathon and Ashland Inc. (Ashland) agreed
             to combine the major elements of their refining, marketing and
             transportation (RM&T) operations. On January 1, 1998, Marathon
             transferred certain RM&T net assets to Marathon Ashland Petroleum
             LLC (MAP), a new consolidated subsidiary. Also on January 1, 1998,
             Marathon acquired certain RM&T net assets from Ashland in exchange
             for a 38% interest in MAP. The acquisition was accounted for under
             the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was
             determined to be $1.9 billion, based upon an external valuation.
             The change in Marathon's ownership interest in MAP resulted in a
             gain of $245 million, which is included in 1998 revenues.

                       In connection with the formation of MAP, Marathon and
             Ashland entered into a Limited Liability Company Agreement dated
             January 1, 1998 (the LLC Agreement). The LLC Agreement provides for
             an initial term of MAP expiring on December 31, 2022 (25 years from
             its formation). The term will automatically be extended for ten-
             year periods, unless a termination notice is given by either party.

                       Also in connection with the formation of MAP, the parties
             entered into a Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill
             Agreement (the Put/Call Agreement). The Put/Call Agreement provides
             that at any time after December 31, 2004, Ashland will have the
             right to sell to Marathon all of Ashland's ownership interest in
             MAP, for an amount in cash and/or Marathon or USX debt or equity
             securities equal to the product of 85% (90% if equity securities
             are used) of the fair market value of MAP at that time, multiplied
             by Ashland's percentage interest in MAP. Payment could be made at
             closing, or at Marathon's option, in three equal annual
             installments, the first of which would be payable at closing. At
             any time after December 31, 2004, Marathon will have the right to
             purchase all of Ashland's ownership interests in MAP, for an amount
             in cash equal to the product of 115% of the fair market value of
             MAP at that time, multiplied by Ashland's percentage interest in
             MAP.

                       The following unaudited pro forma data for the Marathon
             Group includes the results of operations of Tarragon for 1998 and
             1997, and the Ashland RM&T net assets for 1997, giving effect to
             the acquisitions as if they had been consummated at the beginning
             of the years presented. The pro forma data is based on historical
             information and does not necessarily reflect the actual results
             that would have occurred nor is it necessarily indicative of future
             results of operations.

            /(a)/ Excluding the pro forma inventory market valuation adjustment,
                  pro forma net income would have been $383 million in 1998 and
                  $619 million in 1997. Reported net income, excluding the
                  reported inventory market valuation adjustment, would have
                  been $414 million in 1998 and $635 million in 1997.

6. Transactions Between MAP and Ashland

             At December 31, 1998, MAP included in their cash and cash
             equivalents, a $103 million demand note invested with Ashland,
             which is payable March 15, 1999.

                       During 1998, MAP's petroleum products' sales to Ashland
             were $185 million and MAP's purchases of products and services from
             Ashland were $45 million. These transactions were conducted on an
             arm's-length basis.

                       At December 31, 1998, MAP had current receivables from
             Ashland of $22 million and current payables, including
             distributions payable, to Ashland of $106 million.

7. Revenues



                                                                             M-9

 
8. Other Items



             /(a)/ See Note 4, for discussion of USX net interest and other
                   financial costs attributable to the Marathon Group.

             Foreign currency transactions
               For 1998, 1997 and 1996, the aggregate foreign currency
               transaction gains (losses) included in determining net income
               were $13 million, $4 million and $(24) million, respectively.


9. Extraordinary Loss

             On December 30, 1996, USX irrevocably called for redemption on
             January 30, 1997, $120 million of debt, resulting in a 1996
             extraordinary loss to the Marathon Group of $7 million, net of a $4
             million income tax benefit.


10. Financial Activities Attributed to Groups

             The following is the portion of USX financial activities
             attributed to the Marathon Group. These amounts exclude amounts
             specifically attributed to the Marathon Group.


             /(a)/ For details of USX long-term debt and preferred stock of
                   subsidiary, see Notes 17 and 25, respectively, to the USX
                   consolidated financial statements.
             /(b)/ Primarily reflects 1997 forward currency contracts used to
                   manage currency risks related to USX debt and interest
                   denominated in a foreign currency.
             /(c)/ The Marathon Group's net interest and other financial costs
                   reflect weighted average effects of all financial activities
                   attributed to all groups.

M-10

 
11. Segment Information

The Marathon Group's operations consists of three reportable operating segments:
1) Exploration and Production -- explores for and produces crude oil and natural
gas on a worldwide basis; 2) Refining, Marketing and Transportation -- refines,
markets and transports crude oil and petroleum products, primarily in the
Midwest and southeastern United States through MAP; and 3) Other Energy Related
Businesses. Other Energy Related Businesses is an aggregation of two segments
which fall below the quantitative reporting thresholds: 1) Natural Gas and Crude
Oil Marketing and Transportation -- markets and transports its own and third-
party natural gas and crude oil in the United States; and 2) Power Generation--
develops, constructs and operates independent electric power projects worldwide.
For information on sales by product line, see table of revenues on page M-25 of
Management's Discussion and Analysis.

  Segment income represents income from operations allocable to operating
segments. USX corporate general and administrative costs are not allocated to
operating segments. These costs primarily consist of employment costs including
pension effects, professional services, facilities and other related costs
associated with corporate activities. Certain general and administrative costs
related to all Marathon Group operating segments in excess of amounts billed to
MAP under service contracts and amounts charged out to operating segments under
Marathon's shared services procedures also are not allocated to operating
segments. Additionally, the following items are not allocated to operating
segments: inventory market valuation adjustments and gain on ownership change in
MAP.



/(a)/ Intersegment and intergroup sales and transfers were conducted on an 
      arm's-length basis.
/(b)/ Differences between segment totals and group totals represent amounts
      included in administrative expenses and, in 1998, international
      exploration and production property impairments.
/(c)/ Differences between segment totals and group totals represent amounts
      included in administrative expenses.
/(d)/ Differences between segment totals and group totals represent amounts
      related to corporate administrative activities.

                                                                            M-11

 
  The following schedule reconciles segment revenues and income to amounts
reported in the Marathon Group financial statements:



/(a)/ Represents international exploration and production property impairments,
      suspended exploration well write-offs, gas contract settlement and MAP
      transition charges in 1998. Represents net gains on certain asset sales,
      charges for withdrawal from a nonprofit oil spill response group and
      certain state tax adjustments in 1996.

Geographic Area:

  The information below summarizes the operations in different geographic areas.
Transfers between geographic areas are at prices which approximate market.


/(a)/ Includes property, plant and equipment and investments in affiliates.


12. Leases
                Future minimum commitments for operating leases having remaining
             noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:
             
 
             Operating lease rental expense:

             

M-12

 
                       The Marathon Group leases a wide variety of facilities
             and equipment under operating leases, including land and building
             space, office equipment, production facilities and transportation
             equipment. Most long-term leases include renewal options and, in
             certain leases, purchase options. In the event of a change in
             control of USX, as defined in the agreements, or certain other
             circumstances, operating lease obligations totaling $107 million
             may be declared immediately due and payable.


13. Long-Term Debt

                The Marathon Group's portion of USX's consolidated long-term
             debt is as follows:

             /(a)/  See Note 17, to the USX consolidated financial statements
                    for details of interest rates, maturities and other terms of
                    long-term debt.
             /(b)/  As described in Note 4, certain financial activities are
                    specifically attributed only to the Marathon Group and the
                    U. S. Steel Group.
             /(c)/  Most long-term debt activities of USX Corporation and its
                    wholly owned subsidiaries are attributed to all groups (in
                    total, but not with respect to specific debt issues) based
                    on their respective cash flows (Notes 4, 10 and 14).



                                                                            M-13

 

15. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

                The Marathon Group has noncontributory defined benefit pension
             plans covering substantially all employees. Benefits under these
             plans are based primarily upon years of service and final average
             pensionable earnings. Certain subsidiaries provide benefits for
             employees covered by other plans based primarily upon employees'
             service and career earnings.

                       The Marathon Group also has defined benefit retiree
             health and life insurance plans (other benefits) covering most
             employees upon their retirement. Health benefits are provided, for
             the most part, through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major
             medical benefit provisions subject to various cost sharing
             features. Life insurance benefits are provided to certain nonunion
             and most union represented retiree beneficiaries primarily based on
             employees' annual base salary at retirement. Other benefits have
             not been prefunded.

             /(a)/ Includes several small plans that have accumulated
                    benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:




M-14

 


                       For measurement purposes, an 8% annual rate of increase
             in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed
             for 1999. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5% for 2005
             and remain at that level thereafter.

                       A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
             trend rates would have the following effects:


16. Dividends

                In accordance with the USX Certificate of Incorporation,
             dividends on the Marathon Stock and Steel Stock are limited to the
             legally available funds of USX. Net losses of either Group, as well
             as dividends and distributions on any class of USX Common Stock or
             series of preferred stock and repurchases of any class of USX
             Common Stock or series of preferred stock at prices in excess of
             par or stated value, will reduce the funds of USX legally available
             for payment of dividends on both classes of Common Stock. Subject
             to this limitation, the Board of Directors intends to declare and
             pay dividends on the Marathon Stock based on the financial
             condition and results of operations of the Marathon Group, although
             it has no obligation under Delaware law to do so. In making its
             dividend decisions with respect to Marathon Stock, the Board of
             Directors considers among other things, the long-term earnings and
             cash flow capabilities of the Marathon Group as well as the
             dividend policies of similar publicly traded energy companies.
 
17. Property, Plant and Equipment


 
18. Common Stockholders' Equity


              /(a)/ See page U-7 of the USX consolidated financial statements
                    relative to the annual activity of these adjustments and
                    gains (losses). Total comprehensive income for the Marathon
                    Group for the years 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $306 million,
                    $457 million and $665 million, respectively.

                                                                            
                                                                            M-15

 
19. Income Taxes

             Income tax provisions and related assets and liabilities
             attributed to the Marathon Group are determined in accordance with
             the USX group tax allocation policy (Note 4).

                       Provisions (credits) for estimated income taxes were:
  
               A reconciliation of federal statutory tax rate (35%) to total
                 provisions follows:
 

               Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulted from the following:


               /(a)/  USX expects to generate sufficient future taxable income
               to realize the benefit of the Marathon Group's deferred tax
               assets. In addition, the ability to realize the benefit of
               foreign tax credits is based upon certain assumptions concerning
               future operating conditions (particularly as related to
               prevailing oil prices), income generated from foreign sources and
               USX's tax profile in the years that such credits may be claimed.

                       The consolidated tax returns of USX for the years 1990
             through 1994 are under various stages of audit and administrative
             review by the IRS. USX believes it has made adequate provision for
             income taxes and interest which may become payable for years not
             yet settled.

                       Pretax income (loss) included $(75) million, $250 million
             and $341 million attributable to foreign sources in 1998, 1997 and
             1996, respectively.

                       Undistributed earnings of certain consolidated foreign
             subsidiaries at December 31, 1998, amounted to $132 million. No
             provision for deferred U.S. income taxes has been made for these
             subsidiaries because the Marathon Group intends to permanently
             reinvest such earnings in those foreign operations. If such
             earnings were not permanently reinvested, a deferred tax liability
             of $46 million would have been required.

M-16

 
20. Investments and Long-Term Receivables


 
                       Summarized financial information of affiliates accounted
             for by the equity method of accounting follows:


                       Dividends and partnership distributions received from
             equity affiliates were $23 million in 1998, $21 million in 1997 and
             $24 million in 1996.

                       Marathon Group purchases from equity affiliates totaled
             $64 million, $37 million and $49 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
             respectively. Marathon Group sales to equity affiliates were
             immaterial in 1998, $10 million in 1997 and $6 million in 1996.
 
21. Inventories



                       Inventories of crude oil and refined products are valued
             by the LIFO method. The LIFO method accounted for 88% and 91% of
             total inventory value at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                       The inventory market valuation reserve reflects the
             extent that the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and refined
             products inventories exceeds net realizable value. The reserve is
             decreased to reflect increases in market prices and inventory
             turnover and increased to reflect decreases in market prices.
             Changes in the inventory market valuation reserve result in noncash
             charges or credits to costs and expenses.

22. Stock-Based Compensation Plans and Stockholder Rights Plan

             USX Stock-Based Compensation Plans and Stockholder Rights Plan
             are discussed in Note 21, and Note 23, respectively, to the USX
             consolidated financial statements.

                       In 1996, USX adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-
             Based Compensation and elected to continue to follow the accounting
             provisions of APB No. 25, as discussed in Note 2, to the USX
             consolidated financial statements. The Marathon Group's actual
             stock-based compensation expense (credit) was $(3) million in 1998,
             $20 million in 1997 and $6 million in 1996. Incremental
             compensation expense, as determined under SFAS No. 123, was not
             material ($.02 or less per share for all years presented).
             Therefore, pro forma net income and earnings per share data have
             been omitted.

                                                                            
                                                                            M-17

 
23. Income Per Common Share

             The method of calculating net income per share for the Marathon
             Stock, the Steel Stock and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi
             Stock reflects the USX Board of Directors' intent that the
             separately reported earnings and surplus of the Marathon Group, the
             U. S. Steel Group and the Delhi Group, as determined consistent
             with the USX Certificate of Incorporation, are available for
             payment of dividends to the respective classes of stock, although
             legally available funds and liquidation preferences of these
             classes of stock do not necessarily correspond with these amounts.

                       Basic net income per share is based on the weighted
             average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted net income per
             share assumes conversion of convertible securities for the
             applicable periods outstanding and assumes exercise of stock
             options, provided in each case, the effect is not antidilutive.



24. Intergroup Transactions

             Sales and purchases -- Marathon Group sales to other groups totaled
             $21 million, $105 million and $87 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
             respectively. Marathon Group purchases from other groups totaled $2
             million in 1998, $18 million in 1997 and $9 million in 1996. At
             December 31, 1998 and 1997, Marathon Group receivables included $3
             million related to transactions with the U. S. Steel Group. Since
             October 31, 1997, transactions with the Delhi Companies are third-
             party transactions.

             Income taxes receivable from/payable to the U. S. Steel Group --
             At December 31, 1998 and 1997, amounts receivable or payable for
             income taxes were included in the balance sheet as follows:


                       These amounts have been determined in accordance with the
             tax allocation policy described in Note 4. Amounts classified as
             current are settled in cash in the year succeeding that in which
             such amounts are accrued. Noncurrent amounts represent estimates of
             intergroup tax effects of certain issues for years that are still
             under various stages of audit and administrative review. Such tax
             effects are not settled among the groups until the audit of those
             respective tax years is closed. The amounts ultimately settled for
             open tax years will be different than recorded noncurrent amounts
             based on the final resolution of all of the audit issues for those
             years.


25. Derivative Instruments

             The Marathon Group uses commodity-based derivative instruments
             to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the anticipated
             purchase or production and sale of crude oil, natural gas, refined
             products and electricity. The derivative instruments used, as a
             part of an overall risk management program, include exchange-traded
             futures contracts and options, and instruments which require
             settlement in cash such as OTC commodity swaps and OTC options.
             While risk management activities generally reduce market risk
             exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw
             material purchases and products sold, such activities can also
             encompass strategies which assume certain price risk in isolated
             transactions.

                       The Marathon Group uses forward exchange contracts to
             minimize its exposure to foreign currency price fluctuations.

M-18

 
                       The Marathon Group remains at risk for possible changes
             in the market value of the derivative instrument; however, such
             risk should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying hedged
             item. The Marathon Group is also exposed to credit risk in the
             event of nonperformance by counterparties. The credit worthiness of
             counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use
             of master netting agreements to the extent practical, and full
             performance is anticipated.

                       The following table sets forth quantitative information
             by class of derivative instrument:

              /(a)/  The fair value amounts for OTC positions are based on
                     various indices or dealer quotes. The fair value amounts
                     for currency contracts are based on dealer quotes of
                     forward prices covering the remaining duration of the
                     forward exchange contract. The exchange-traded futures
                     contracts and certain option contracts do not have a
                     corresponding fair value since changes in the market prices
                     are settled on a daily basis.

              /(b)/  Contract or notional amounts do not quantify risk exposure,
                     but are used in the calculation of cash settlements under
                     the contracts. The contract or notional amounts do not
                     reflect the extent to which positions may offset one
                     another.

              /(c)/  Includes fair values as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, for
                     assets of $23 million and $3 million and liabilities of
                     $(20) million and $(2) million, respectively.

              /(d)/  The OTC swap arrangements vary in duration with certain
                     contracts extending into 2008.

              /(e)/  Includes fair values as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, for
                     assets of $29 million and $1 million and liabilities of
                     $(31) million and $(3) million, respectively.

              /(f)/  The forward exchange contracts relating to foreign
                     operations have various maturities ending in December 1999.
              
              /(g)/  The forward exchange contracts relating to foreign
                     denominated debt matured in 1998.

26. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

             Fair value of the financial instruments disclosed herein is not
             necessarily representative of the amount that could be realized or
             settled, nor does the fair value amount consider the tax
             consequences of realization or settlement. The following table
             summarizes financial instruments, excluding derivative financial
             instruments disclosed in Note 25, by individual balance sheet
             account. As described in Note 4, the Marathon Group's specifically
             attributed financial instruments and the Marathon Group's portion
             of USX's financial instruments attributed to all groups are as
             follows:


                                                                            M-19

 
                       Fair value of financial instruments classified as current
             assets or liabilities approximates carrying value due to the short-
             term maturity of the instruments. Fair value of investments and
             long-term receivables was based on discounted cash flows or other
             specific instrument analysis. Fair value of preferred stock of
             subsidiary was based on market prices. Fair value of long-term debt
             instruments was based on market prices where available or current
             borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and
             maturities.

                       The Marathon Group's unrecognized financial instruments
             consist of financial guarantees. It is not practicable to estimate
             the fair value of these forms of financial instrument obligations
             because there are no quoted market prices for transactions which
             are similar in nature. For details relating to financial guarantees
             see Note 27.

27. Contingencies and Commitments

             USX is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or
             threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments relating to
             the Marathon Group involving a variety of matters, including laws
             and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these
             matters are discussed below. The ultimate resolution of these
             contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material
             to the Marathon Group financial statements. However, management
             believes that USX will remain a viable and competitive enterprise
             even though it is possible that these contingencies could be
             resolved unfavorably to the Marathon Group.

             Environmental matters --

                       The Marathon Group is subject to federal, state, local
             and foreign laws and regulations relating to the environment. These
             laws generally provide for control of pollutants released into the
             environment and require responsible parties to undertake
             remediation of hazardous waste disposal sites. Penalties may be
             imposed for noncompliance. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, accrued
             liabilities for remediation totaled $48 million and $52 million,
             respectively. It is not presently possible to estimate the ultimate
             amount of all remediation costs that might be incurred or the
             penalties that may be imposed. Receivables for recoverable costs
             from certain states, under programs to assist companies in cleanup
             efforts related to underground storage tanks at retail marketing
             outlets, were $41 million at December 31, 1998, and $42 million at
             December 31, 1997.

                       For a number of years, the Marathon Group has made
             substantial capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into
             compliance with various laws relating to the environment. In 1998
             and 1997, such capital expenditures totaled $124 million and $81
             million, respectively. The Marathon Group anticipates making
             additional such expenditures in the future; however, the exact
             amounts and timing of such expenditures are uncertain because of
             the continuing evolution of specific regulatory requirements.

                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, accrued liabilities for
             platform abandonment and dismantlement totaled $141 million and
             $128 million, respectively.

             Guarantees --

                       Guarantees by USX and its consolidated subsidiaries of
             the liabilities of affiliated entities of the Marathon Group
             totaled $131 million and $23 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
             respectively. As of December 31, 1998, the largest guarantee for a
             single affiliate was $131 million.

                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Marathon Group's pro
             rata share of obligations of LOOP LLC and various pipeline
             affiliates secured by throughput and deficiency agreements totaled
             $164 million and $165 million, respectively. Under the agreements,
             the Marathon Group is required to advance funds if the affiliates
             are unable to service debt. Any such advances are prepayments of
             future transportation charges.

             Commitments --

                       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Marathon Group's
             contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment and
             long-term investments totaled $624 million and $377 million,
             respectively.

                       The Marathon Group is a party to a 15-year transportation
             services agreement with a natural gas transmission company. The
             contract requires the Marathon Group to pay a minimum annual demand
             charge of approximately $5 million starting in the year 2000 and
             concluding in the year 2014. The payments are required even if the
             transportation facility is not utilized.

M-20

 
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)



/(a)/  Composite tape.


Principal Unconsolidated Affiliates (Unaudited) 



/(a)/ Represents the ownership of MAP.


Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)

See the USX consolidated financial statements for Supplementary Information on
Oil and Gas Producing Activities relating to the Marathon Group, pages U-30
through U-34.

                                                                            M-21

 
Five-Year Operating Summary


              /(a)/ Represents gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.
              /(b)/ Represents Marathon's equity interest in CLAM Petroleum B.V.
              /(c)/ Prices exclude gains losses from hedging activities.
              /(d)/ Represents Marathon's equity interest in Sakhalin Energy
                    Investment Company Ltd.

M-22

 
                Five-Year Operating Summary  CONTINUED


             /(a)/ 1998 statistics include 100% of MAP and should be 
                   considered when compared to prior periods.
             /(b)/ Pipelines for downstream operations also include non-common
                   carrier, leased and equity affiliates.
             /(c)/ Pipeline barrels handled on owned common carrier pipelines,
                   excluding equity affiliates.

                                                                            M-23

 
Five-Year Financial Summary


              /(a)/  1998 statistics, other than employee data, include 100% of
                     MAP, which should be considered when making comparisons to
                     prior periods.
              /(b)/  Includes dividend and affiliate income, net gains on
                     disposal of assets and other income.
              /(c)/  These items are included in both revenues and costs and
                     expenses, resulting in no effect on income.
              /(d)/  Employee Data for 1998 includes Ashland employees from the
                     date of their payroll transfer to MAP, which occurred at
                     various times throughout 1998. These employees were
                     contracted to MAP in 1998, prior to their payroll transfer.
                     As of December 31, 1998, active employees for the Marathon
                     Group were 32,862, which included 28,449 MAP employees. Of
                     the MAP total, 21,586 were employees of SSA.

M-24

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis

                The Marathon Group includes Marathon Oil Company ("Marathon")
             and certain other subsidiaries of USX Corporation ("USX"), which
             are engaged in worldwide exploration and production of crude oil
             and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of
             petroleum products primarily through Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
             ("MAP"), owned 62% by Marathon; and other energy related
             businesses. Effective August 11, 1998, Marathon acquired Tarragon
             Oil and Gas Limited ("Tarragon"), a Canadian oil and gas
             exploration and production company. Results for 1998 include the
             operations of Marathon Canada Limited ("MCL"), formerly known as
             Tarragon, commencing August 12, 1998. For 1998, certain financial
             measures such as revenues, income from operations and capital
             expenditures include 100% of MAP and are not comparable to prior
             period amounts. Net income and related per share amounts for 1998
             are net of Ashland's 38% minority interest in MAP's income. For
             further discussion of MAP and MCL, see Note 5 to the Marathon Group
             Financial Statements. The Management's Discussion and Analysis
             should be read in conjunction with the Marathon Group's Financial
             Statements and Notes to Financial Statements.

                The Marathon Group's 1998 financial performance was
             significantly impacted by the lowest oil prices in 24 years, lower
             natural gas prices and decreased refining crack spreads (the
             difference between light products prices and crude costs).
             Nevertheless, in 1998, Marathon upstream operations achieved nearly
             a 20% growth in worldwide liquids production and MAP had a highly
             successful first year of operations, achieving annual repeatable
             operating efficiencies of approximately $150 million.

                Certain sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis include
             forward-looking statements concerning trends or events potentially
             affecting the businesses of the Marathon Group. These statements
             typically contain words such as "anticipates", "believes",
             "estimates", "expects", "targets" or similar words indicating that
             future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor"
             provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
             these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying
             important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that
             could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set
             forth in forward-looking statements. For additional risk factors
             affecting the businesses of the Marathon Group, see Supplementary
             Data -- Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements in USX's 1998
             Form 10-K.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations

                Revenues for each of the last three years are summarized in the
             following table, which is covered by the report of independent
             accountants:

             /(a)/  See Note 5 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements for a
                    discussion of the gain on ownership change in MAP.
             /(b)/  Includes dividend and affiliate income, net gains on
                    disposal of assets and other income.
             /(c)/  Matching crude oil and refined products buy/sell
                    transactions settled in cash.
             /(d)/  Consumer excise taxes on petroleum products and
                    merchandise.
             /(e)/  Included in both revenues and costs and expenses, resulting
                    in no effect on income.

                In 1998, Marathon Group revenues included 100% of MAP revenues,
             and MCL's revenues commencing August 12, 1998. On a pro forma
             basis, assuming the acquisitions of Tarragon's operations and
             Ashland's RM&T net assets had occurred on January 1, 1997, revenues
             (excluding matching buy/sell transactions and excise taxes) for
             1997 would have been $16,278 million.


                                                                            M-25

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued


                Revenues (excluding matching buy/sell transactions and excise
             taxes) decreased by $1,732 million in 1998 from pro forma 1997. The
             decrease in 1998 mainly reflected lower prices for refined
             products, lower worldwide liquid hydrocarbon prices and lower
             domestic natural gas prices, partially offset by higher liquid
             hydrocarbon sales volumes. The increase in liquid hydrocarbon sales
             volumes was due to a higher volume of upstream production being
             sold to third parties.

                Revenues (excluding matching buy/sell transactions and excise
             taxes) decreased $132 million in 1997 (as reported) from 1996,
             mainly due to lower average refined product prices and lower
             worldwide liquid hydrocarbon prices and volumes, partially offset
             by increased volumes of refined products and higher domestic
             natural gas volumes and prices.

                Income from operations for each of the last three years is
             summarized in the following table:

             /(a)/ In 1998, segment income includes 100% of MAP and is not
                   comparable to prior periods.
             /(b)/ Includes marketing and transportation of domestic natural
                   gas and crude oil, and power generation.
             /(c)/ Includes the portion of the Marathon Group's administrative
                   costs not charged to the operating components and the portion
                   of USX corporate general and administrative costs allocated
                   to the Marathon Group.
             /(d)/ The inventory market valuation ("IMV") reserve reflects the
                   extent to which the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and
                   refined products inventories exceeds net realizable value.
             /(e)/ The gain on ownership change and one-time transition
                   charges relate to the formation of MAP. For additional
                   discussion of the gain on ownership change in MAP, see Note 5
                   to the Marathon Group Financial Statements.
             /(f)/ Includes a write-off of certain non-revenue producing
                   international investments and several exploratory wells which
                   had encountered hydrocarbons, but had been suspended pending
                   further evaluation. It also includes a gain from the
                   resolution of a contract dispute with a purchaser of
                   Marathon's natural gas production from certain domestic
                   properties.

                In 1998, Marathon Group income from operations included 100% of
             MAP, and MCL's results of operations commencing August 12, 1998. On
             a pro forma basis, assuming the acquisitions of Ashland's RM&T net
             assets and Tarragon's operations had occurred on January 1, 1997,
             income for reportable segments for 1997 would have been $1,728
             million. Income for reportable segments decreased by $521 million
             in 1998 from pro forma 1997 and increased by $178 million in 1997
             (as reported) from 1996. The decrease in 1998 was primarily due to
             lower worldwide liquid hydrocarbon prices, lower domestic natural
             gas prices and lower refining crack spreads, partially offset by
             higher liquid hydrocarbon production. The increase in 1997 was
             primarily due to higher average refined product margins and higher
             worldwide natural gas prices, partially offset by lower worldwide
             liquid hydrocarbon production and prices and higher worldwide
             exploration expense.


M-26

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

                        Average Volumes and Selling Prices

 
             /(a)/  Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
             /(b)/  Represents equity tanker liftings, truck deliveries and
                    direct deliveries.
             /(c)/  Represents gas acquired for injection and subsequent
                    resale.
             /(d)/  Prices exclude gains/losses from hedging activities.
             /(e)/  In 1998, refined products sold and matching buy/sell
                    volumes include 100% of MAP and are not comparable to prior
                    periods.

                Domestic E&P income decreased by $310 million in 1998 from 1997
             following a decrease of $47 million in 1997 from 1996. The decrease
             in 1998 was primarily due to lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural
             gas prices, partially offset by increased liquid hydrocarbon
             production and natural gas volumes. The 17%, or 20,000 barrels per
             day ("bpd"), increase in liquid hydrocarbon production was mainly
             attributable to new production in the Gulf of Mexico, while the
             increase in natural gas volumes was mainly attributable to
             properties in east Texas.

                The decrease in 1997 was primarily due to lower liquid
             hydrocarbon prices and production and higher exploration expense,
             partially offset by increased natural gas production and prices.
             The lower liquid hydrocarbon production was mostly due to the 1996
             disposal of oil producing properties in Alaska. The increase in
             natural gas volumes was mainly attributable to properties in east
             Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming.

                International E&P income decreased by $185 million in 1998
             following a decrease of $80 million in 1997. The decrease in 1998
             was primarily due to lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas
             prices and higher exploration and operating expenses. These items
             were partially offset by increased liquid hydrocarbon production
             and natural gas volumes. The 24%, or 12,000 bpd, increase in liquid
             hydrocarbon production was mainly attributable to the acquired
             production in Canada and new operations in Gabon. The increase in
             natural gas volumes was mainly attributable to acquired production
             in Canada.

                The decrease in 1997 was primarily due to lower liquid
             hydrocarbon volumes, lower natural gas volumes and lower liquid
             hydrocarbon prices. These items were partially offset by reduced
             pipeline and terminal expenses and reduced DD&A expenses, due
             largely to the lower volumes. The lower liquid hydrocarbon volumes
             primarily reflected lower production in the U.K. North Sea, while
             the lower natural gas volumes were mainly due to natural field
             declines in Ireland and Norway.

                Refining, marketing and transportation ("downstream") reportable
             segment income in 1998 included 100 percent of MAP. On a pro forma
             basis, assuming the acquisition of Ashland's RM&T net assets had
             occurred on January 1, 1997, income for the reportable segments of
             the combined downstream operations of Marathon and Ashland for 1997
             would have been $869 million. On this basis, 1998 downstream
             reportable segment income of $896 million was slightly higher than
             pro forma 1997 downstream reportable segment income. During 1998,
             the effects of lower refining crack

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

             spreads were offset by strong performances from MAP's asphalt and
             retail operations, realization of operating efficiencies as a
             result of combining Marathon and Ashland's downstream operations
             and lower energy costs.

                Downstream reportable segment income in 1997 increased $314
             million over 1996 due mainly to improved refined product margins as
             favorable effects of reduced crude oil and other feedstock costs
             more than offset a decrease in refined product sales prices.

                Other energy related businesses reportable segment income
             decreased by $15 million in 1998 following a decrease of $9 million
             in 1997. The decrease in 1998 was mainly due to a gain on the sale
             of an equity interest in a domestic pipeline company included in
             1997 reportable segment income.

                Items not allocated to reportable segments

                Administrative expenses decreased by $62 million in 1998
             following an increase of $35 million in 1997 from 1996. The
             decrease in 1998 mainly reflected an increase in administrative
             costs charged to the RM&T reportable segment, lower accruals for
             employee benefit and compensation plans and lower litigation
             accruals. The increase in 1997 mainly reflected higher accruals for
             employee benefit and compensation plans, including Marathon's
             performance-based variable pay plan.

                IMV reserve adjustment -- When U. S. Steel Corporation acquired
             Marathon Oil Company in March 1982, crude oil and refined product
             prices were at historically high levels. In applying the purchase
             method of accounting, the Marathon Group's crude oil and refined
             product inventories were revalued by reference to current prices at
             the time of acquisition, and this became the new LIFO cost basis of
             the inventories. Generally accepted accounting principles require
             that inventories be carried at lower of cost or market.
             Accordingly, the Marathon Group has established an IMV reserve to
             reduce the cost basis of its inventories to net realizable value.
             Quarterly adjustments to the IMV reserve result in noncash charges
             or credits to income from operations.

                When Marathon acquired the crude oil and refined product
             inventories associated with Ashland's RM&T operations on January 1,
             1998, the Marathon Group established a new LIFO cost basis for
             those inventories. The acquisition cost of these inventories
             lowered the overall average cost of the Marathon Group's combined
             RM&T inventories. As a result, the price threshold at which an IMV
             reserve will be recorded was also lowered.

                These adjustments affect the comparability of financial results
             from period to period as well as comparisons with other energy
             companies, many of which do not have such adjustments. Therefore,
             the Marathon Group reports separately the effects of the IMV
             reserve adjustments on financial results. In management's opinion,
             the effects of such adjustments should be considered separately
             when evaluating operating performance.

                Net interest and other financial costs for 1998, 1997 and 1996
             are set forth in the following table:


                In 1998, net interest and other financial costs decreased
             primarily due to increased interest income and higher capitalized
             interest on upstream projects, partially offset by higher interest
             and other financial costs resulting from the debt incurred for the
             Tarragon acquisition. In 1997, net interest and other financial
             costs decreased primarily due to lower average debt levels and
             higher capitalized interest on worldwide exploration and production
             projects. For additional details, see Note 8 to the Marathon Group
             Financial Statements.

                The provision for estimated income taxes of $142 million in 1998
             included $24 million of favorable income tax accrual adjustments
             relating to foreign operations.

                An extraordinary loss on extinguishment of debt of $7 million in
             1996 represents the portion of the loss on early extinguishment of
             USX debt attributed to the Marathon Group. For additional
             information, see Note 9 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements.

                Net income decreased by $146 million in 1998 from 1997,
             following a decrease of $208 million in 1997 from 1996, primarily
             reflecting the factors discussed above.

M-28

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and
Liquidity

                Current assets increased $958 million from year-end 1997,
             primarily due to an increase in receivables, inventories and cash
             and cash equivalents. The accounts receivable and inventory
             increases were mainly due to the acquisition of Ashland's RM&T net
             assets.

                Current liabilities increased $348 million from year-end 1997.
             This increase included an increase in accounts payable, which was
             primarily due to the acquisition of Ashland's RM&T net assets and
             an increase in the distribution payable to the minority interest
             owner of MAP, which was paid in early January 1999. These were
             partially offset by a decrease in long-term debt due within a year.

                Net property, plant and equipment increased $2,863 million from
             year-end 1997, primarily due to the acquisitions of Ashland's RM&T
             net assets and Tarragon. Net property, plant and equipment for each
             of the last three years is summarized in the following table:

             /(a)/ Includes other energy related businesses and other
                   miscellaneous corporate net property, plant and equipment.

                Total long-term debt and notes payable at December 31, 1998 were
             $3.6 billion, an increase of $646 million from year-end 1997. This
             increase is mainly due to the Tarragon acquisition. Virtually all
             of the debt is a direct obligation of, or is guaranteed by, USX.

                Net cash provided from operating activities totaled $1,431
             million in 1998, compared with $1,246 million in 1997 and $1,503
             million in 1996. Operating cash flow in 1997 included the impact of
             terminating Marathon's participation in an accounts receivable
             sales program, resulting in a cash outflow of $340 million, while
             1996 included payments of $39 million related to certain state tax
             issues. Excluding the effects of these items, net cash from
             operating activities decreased by $155 million in 1998 from 1997
             and increased by $44 million in 1997 from 1996. The decrease in
             1998 was mainly due to unfavorable working capital changes. The
             increase in 1997 mainly reflected improved net income (excluding
             the IMV reserve adjustment and other noncash items), partially
             offset by increased income tax payments.

                Capital expenditures, excluding the acquisition of Tarragon, for
             each of the last three years are summarized in the following table:

             /(a)/  Amounts for 1998 include 100% of MAP.
             /(b)/  Includes other energy related businesses and other
                    miscellaneous corporate capital expenditures.

                During 1998, domestic upstream capital spending mainly included
             continuing development of Viosca Knoll 786 ("Petronius"), Green
             Canyon 244 ("Troika") and Green Canyon 112/113 ("Stellaria") in the
             Gulf of Mexico. International upstream projects included continued
             development of the Tchatamba South field, offshore Gabon.
             Downstream spending by MAP consisted of upgrades and expansions of
             retail marketing outlets and refinery modifications.

                Capital expenditures in 1999 are expected to be approximately
             $1.3 billion which is consistent with 1998 levels; however,
             Marathon's plans will remain responsive to the economic conditions
             impacting the petroleum industry. Domestic upstream projects
             planned for 1999 include continued



                                                                            M-29

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

             development of Petronius and Stellaria in the Gulf of Mexico and
             natural gas developments in East Texas and other gas basins
             throughout the western United States. International upstream
             projects include oil and natural gas developments in Canada and
             completion of the Tchatamba South development. Downstream spending
             by MAP will primarily consist of upgrades and expansions of retail
             marketing outlets, refinery improvements and expansion and
             enhancement of logistic systems.

                Investments in affiliates of $42 million in 1998 mainly
             reflected MAP's acquisition of an interest in Southcap Pipe Line
             Company for $22 million and continued investment in pipeline and
             power projects.

                Loans and advances to affiliates of $103 million in 1998
             primarily reflected continued funding of Sakhalin Energy Investment
             Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy") in conjunction with the Sakhalin
             II project.

                Repayments of loans and advances to affiliates of $63 million in
             1998 were primarily a result of repayments by Sakhalin Energy of
             advances made by Marathon in conjunction with the Sakhalin II
             project.

                In 1999, net investments in affiliates are expected to be
             approximately $80 million, primarily reflecting continued
             development spending for the Sakhalin II project.

                Contract commitments for property, plant and equipment
             acquisitions and long-term investments at year-end 1998 were $624
             million, compared with $377 million at year-end 1997. The 1998
             increase was primarily due to increased commitments for domestic
             production in the Gulf Coast.

                The above statements with respect to future capital expenditures
             and investments are forward-looking statements, reflecting
             management's best estimates, based on information currently
             available. To the extent this information proves to be inaccurate,
             the timing and levels of future spending could differ materially
             from those included in the forward-looking statements. Factors that
             could cause future capital expenditures and investments to differ
             materially from present expectations include continued low prices,
             worldwide supply and demand for petroleum products, general
             worldwide economic conditions, levels of cash flow from operations,
             available business opportunities, unforeseen hazards such as
             weather conditions, and/or by delays in obtaining government or
             partner approvals.

                The acquisition of Tarragon Oil and Gas Limited included cash
             payments of $686 million. For further discussion of Tarragon, see
             Note 5 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements.

                Cash from disposal of assets was $65 million in 1998, compared
             with $60 million in 1997 and $282 million in 1996. Proceeds in 1998
             were mainly from the sales of domestic production properties and
             equipment. Proceeds in 1997 were mainly from the sales of interests
             in various domestic upstream properties, certain investments and an
             interest in a domestic pipeline company. Proceeds in 1996 primarily
             reflected the sales of interests in certain domestic and
             international oil and gas production properties and the sale of an
             equity interest in a domestic pipeline company.

                The net change in restricted cash was a net deposit of $21
             million in 1998 compared to a net withdrawal of $98 million in
             1997. The 1998 amount represents cash deposited from the sales of
             domestic production properties and equipment, partially offset by
             cash withdrawn for the purchase of offshore production leases. The
             1997 amount represents cash withdrawn from an interest-bearing
             escrow account that was established in the fourth quarter of 1996
             in connection with the 1996 disposal of oil production properties
             in Alaska.

                Financial obligations, which consist of the Marathon Group's
             portion of USX debt and preferred stock of a subsidiary attributed
             to both groups, as well as debt specifically attributed to the
             Marathon Group, increased by $306 million in 1998. Financial
             obligations increased primarily because capital expenditures, cash
             payments for Tarragon, dividend payments and the increase in cash
             and cash equivalents exceeded cash from operating activities and
             proceeds from the issuance of USX -- Marathon Group Common Stock. 
             For further details, see USX Consolidated Management's Discussion
             and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

                Dividends paid in 1998 increased by $27 million from 1997,
             primarily due to the two cents per share increase in the quarterly
             USX -- Marathon Group Common Stock dividend rate. This increase was
             initially declared in January 1998.

             Derivative Instruments
                See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
             for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market
             risk.

M-30

 
              Management's Discussion and Analysis continued
           
              Liquidity
                 For discussion of USX's liquidity and capital resources, see
              Management's Discussion and Analysis of USX Consolidated Financial
              Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity.

Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and
Contingencies 

                 The Marathon Group has incurred and will continue to incur
              substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation
              expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. To
              the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not
              ultimately reflected in the prices of the Marathon Group's
              products and services, operating results will be adversely
              affected. The Marathon Group believes that substantially all of
              its competitors are subject to similar environmental laws and
              regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may
              vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and
              location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production
              processes and whether or not it is engaged in the petrochemical
              business, power business or the marine transportation of crude oil
              and refined products.
            
                 Marathon Group environmental expenditures for each of the last
              three years were/(a)/:

             /(a)/  Amounts are determined based on American Petroleum
                    Institute survey guidelines.
             /(b)/  Amounts for 1998 include 100% of MAP.
             /(c)/  These amounts include spending charged against such
                    reserves, net of recoveries, where permissible, but do not
                    include noncash provisions recorded for environmental
                    remediation.

                The Marathon Group's environmental capital expenditures
             accounted for 10% of total capital expenditures in 1998 (excluding
             the acquisition of Tarragon), 8% in 1997 and 9% in 1996.

                During 1996 through 1998, compliance expenditures represented 1%
             of the Marathon Group's total operating costs. Remediation spending
             during this period was primarily related to retail marketing
             outlets which incur ongoing clean-up costs for soil and groundwater
             contamination associated with underground storage tanks and piping.

                USX has been notified that it is a potentially responsible party
             ("PRP") at 17 waste sites related to the Marathon Group under the
             Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
             Act ("CERCLA") as of December 31, 1998. In addition, there are 8
             sites related to the Marathon Group where USX has received
             information requests or other indications that USX may be a PRP
             under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently
             available to confirm the existence of liability.

                There are also 92 additional sites, excluding retail marketing
             outlets, related to the Marathon Group where remediation is being
             sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state,
             or where private parties are seeking remediation through
             discussions or litigation. Of these sites, 16 were associated with
             properties conveyed to MAP by Ashland for which Ashland has
             retained liability for all costs associated with remediation.

                At many of these sites, USX is one of a number of parties
             involved and the total cost of remediation, as well as USX's share
             thereof, is frequently dependent upon the outcome of investigations
             and remedial studies. The Marathon Group accrues for environmental
             remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is
             probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably
             determinable. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward
             ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise,
             charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. See
             Note 27 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements.

                Effective January 1, 1997, USX adopted the American Institute of
             Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position No. 96-1 --
             "Environmental Remediation Liabilities" -- which requires that
             companies include direct costs in accruals for remediation
             liabilities. Income from operations in 1997 included first quarter
             charges of $7 million (net of expected recoveries) related to such
             adoption, primarily for accruals of post-closure monitoring costs,
             study costs and administrative costs. See Note 3 to the Marathon
             Group Financial Statements for additional discussion.

                                                                            M-31

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

                New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase
             the Marathon Group's environmental costs, may arise in the future.
             USX intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the
             environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently
             determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected
             by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the
             ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may
             be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on
             presently available information, and existing laws and regulations
             as currently implemented, the Marathon Group does not anticipate
             that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and
             maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 1999. The
             Marathon Group's environmental capital expenditures are expected to
             be approximately $64 million in 1999. Predictions beyond 1999 can
             only be broad-based estimates which have varied, and will continue
             to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory
             requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent
             requirements and the availability of new technologies, among other
             matters. Based upon currently identified projects, the Marathon
             Group anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be
             approximately $82 million in 2000; however, actual expenditures may
             vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised
             as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory
             requirements and could increase if additional projects are
             identified or additional requirements are imposed.

                In October 1998, the National Enforcement Investigations Center
             and Region V of the United States Environmental Protection Agency
             conducted a multi-media inspection of MAP's Detroit refinery.
             Subsequently, in November 1998, Region V conducted a multi-media
             inspection of MAP's Robinson refinery. These inspections covered
             compliance with the Clean Air Act (New Source Performance
             Standards, Prevention of Significant Deterioration, and the
             National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for
             Benzene), the Clean Water Act (Permit exceedances for the Waste
             Water Treatment Plant), reporting obligations under the Emergency
             Planning and Community Right to Know Act and the handling of
             process waste. Although MAP has been advised as to certain
             compliance issues, including one contested Notice of Violation
             regarding MAP's Detroit refinery, it is not known when complete
             findings on the results of the inspections will be issued. In an
             action separate from the multi-media inspection, the Department of
             Justice filed a civil complaint in February 1999, alleging
             violation of the Clean Air Act with respect to benzene releases at
             the Robinson refinery.

                USX is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or
             threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments relating to
             the Marathon Group involving a variety of matters, including laws
             and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are
             discussed in Note 27 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements.
             The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually
             or in the aggregate, be material to the Marathon Group financial
             statements. However, management believes that USX will remain a
             viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that
             these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to the Marathon
             Group. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of USX Consolidated
             Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity.

             Outlook
                The outlook regarding the Marathon Group's upstream revenues and
             income is largely dependent upon future prices and volumes of
             liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas. Prices have historically been
             volatile and have frequently been affected by unpredictable changes
             in supply and demand resulting from fluctuations in worldwide
             economic activity and political developments in the world's major
             oil and gas producing and consuming areas. During 1998, worldwide
             liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices realized by Marathon were
             significantly lower than 1997. In 1998, West Texas Intermediate
             crude oil postings reached their lowest levels in 24 years. The
             continuation of this depressed pricing environment in 1999 will
             adversely impact upstream results. Expected increases in liquid
             hydrocarbon and natural gas production should partially offset the
             effects of these lower prices. Continued lower prices could
             adversely affect the quantity of crude oil and natural gas reserves
             that can be economically produced and the amount of capital
             available for exploration and development.

                In 1999, worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production, including
             Marathon's share of equity affiliates, is expected to increase by
             17 percent, to average approximately 230,000 bpd. Most of the
             increase is anticipated in the second half of the year. This
             primarily reflects projected new production from the Phase I
             development of the Piltun-Astokhskoye ("P-A") field in mid-1999
             (discussed below), start-up of the Tchatamba South field in the
             third quarter of 1999 and a full year of production by MCL,
             partially offset by natural production declines of mature fields.
             In 1999, worldwide natural gas volumes,


M-32

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

             including Marathon's share of equity affiliates, are expected to
             increase by 11 percent, to approximately 1.38 billion cubic feet
             per day. This primarily reflects increases in North American gas
             production, offset by natural declines in mature international
             fields, primarily in Ireland and Norway. In 2000, worldwide liquid
             hydrocarbon production and natural gas volumes are expected to
             remain consistent with 1999 levels. In 2001, liquid hydrocarbon
             production is expected to increase by 10 to 15 percent over 2000
             production levels and natural gas volumes are expected to increase
             by approximately 4 percent over 2000 levels. These projections are
             based on known discoveries and do not include any additions from
             potential or future acquisitions or future wildcat drilling.

                Petronius, in the Gulf of Mexico, was originally scheduled to
             begin production in the second quarter of 1999, but the project was
             delayed when the last platform topsides module fell into the sea
             during installation work. The lost module will have to be replaced.
             Third party insurance is expected to cover costs associated with
             the replacement and installation on the platform. First production
             is now expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2000.

                Marathon holds a 37.5% interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment
             Company Ltd. ("Sakhalin Energy"), an incorporated joint venture
             company responsible for the overall management of the Sakhalin II
             project. This project includes development of the P-A oil field and
             the Lunskoye gas-condensate field, which are located 8-12 miles
             offshore Sakhalin Island in the Russian Far East Region. The
             Russian State Reserves Committee has approved estimated combined
             reserves for the P-A and Lunskoye fields of one billion gross
             barrels of liquid hydrocarbons and 14 trillion cubic feet of
             natural gas.

                In 1997, a Development Plan for the P-A license area, Phase I:
             Astokh Feature was approved. Offshore drilling and production
             facilities for the Astokh Feature were set in place on September 1,
             1998. Drilling of development wells commenced in December of 1998.
             First production from the Astokh Feature is scheduled for mid-1999,
             with sales forecast to average 45,000 gross bpd of oil annually as
             early as 2000. This rate is based on six months of offshore loading
             operations during the ice-free weather window at an estimated daily
             rate of 90,000 gross barrels. Marathon's equity share of reserves
             from primary production in the Astokh Feature is 80 million barrels
             of oil.

                The approved Development Plan also provides for further
             appraisal work for the remainder of the P-A field. An appraisal
             well was drilled during the summer weather window in 1998 and the
             results are being evaluated. Conceptual design work for further
             development of the P-A field, including pressure maintenance for
             the Astokh Feature, continues. With respect to the Lunskoye field,
             appraisal work and efforts to secure long-term gas sales markets
             continue. Commencement of gas production from the Lunskoye field,
             which will be contingent upon the conclusion of a gas sales
             contract, is anticipated to occur in 2005 or later.

                Late in 1997, the Sakhalin Energy consortium arranged a limited
             recourse project financing facility of $348 million. Sakhalin
             Energy borrowed the full amount of this facility in 1998 to fund
             Phase I expenditures and to repay amounts previously advanced to
             Sakhalin Energy by its shareholders.

                In the area of significant Russian legislation, the Russian
             Parliament passed a Production Sharing Agreement ("PSA") Amendments
             Law and a PSA Enabling Law, which brings other Russian legislation
             into conformance with the PSA Law. These laws were signed by
             President Yeltsin and enacted in 1999.

                At December 31, 1998, Marathon's investment in the Sakhalin II
             project was $275 million.

                The above discussion includes forward-looking statements with
             respect to worldwide liquid hydrocarbon production and natural gas
             volumes for 1999, 2000 and 2001, commencement of projects and dates
             of initial production. These statements are based on a number of
             assumptions, including (among others) prices, amount of capital
             available for exploration and development, worldwide supply and
             demand for petroleum products, regulatory constraints, reserve
             estimates, production decline rates of mature fields, timing of
             commencing production from new wells, timing and results of future
             development drilling, reserve replacement rates and other
             geological, operating and economic considerations. In addition,
             development of new production properties in countries outside the
             United States may require protracted negotiations with host
             governments and is frequently subject to political considerations,
             such as tax regulations, which could adversely affect the timing
             and economics of projects. To the extent these assumptions prove
             inaccurate and/or negotiations and other considerations are not
             satisfactorily resolved, actual results could be materially
             different than present expectations.



                                                                            M-33

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

                Downstream income of the Marathon Group is largely dependent
             upon refining crack spreads (the difference between light product
             prices and crude costs). Refined product margins have been
             historically volatile and vary with the level of economic activity
             in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate and the
             available supply of crude oil and refined products. Key external
             factors look promising for the refining and marketing industry.
             Demand for petroleum products is expected to grow modestly, due to
             a leveling of fuel efficiency in the passenger car fleet,
             increasing sales of light-truck and sport-utility vehicles which
             average fewer miles per gallon than passenger cars, and an
             increasing number of vehicle miles traveled. Refinery utilization
             rates are strong, reflecting the increased demand, which should be
             beneficial for MAP's refining margins. Also, increased highway
             construction funding should benefit MAP, the largest U.S. supplier
             of asphalt.

                As a result of Marathon and Ashland combining major elements of
             their downstream operations, MAP achieved approximately $150
             million in annual repeatable pre-tax operating efficiencies in 1998
             and has targeted an additional $100 million in 1999. MAP presently
             expects to derive efficiencies of $350 million annually on a pre-
             tax basis in 2001. This exceeds its original goal of achieving
             efficiencies of $200 million annually on a pre-tax basis.
             Efficiencies will continue to be identified in the logistical,
             retail marketing, wholesale marketing and refining operations, as
             well as administrative functions, that Marathon and Ashland
             transferred to MAP.

                MAP and a third party are constructing facilities to produce 800
             million pounds per year of polymer grade propylene and
             polypropylene at the Garyville refinery. MAP is building and will
             own and operate facilities to produce polymer grade propylene. The
             third party is constructing and will own and operate the
             polypropylene facilities and market its output. Production of the
             polymer grade propylene is scheduled to begin in the second quarter
             of 1999.

                MAP plans to build a pipeline from its Catlettsburg refinery to
             Columbus, Ohio. The wholly owned pipeline is expected to initially
             move about 50,000 bpd of refined products into central Ohio.
             Construction is expected to commence in the summer of 1999 after
             final regulatory approvals. The pipeline is expected to be
             operational in the first half of 2000.

                A project to increase crude throughput and light product output
             is being undertaken at MAP's Robinson, IL refinery. This project is
             expected to be completed in 2001.

                The above statements with respect to demand for petroleum
             products, the amount and timing of efficiencies to be realized by
             MAP, and the statements with respect to the propylene, pipeline and
             refinery improvement projects are forward looking statements. Some
             factors that could potentially cause actual results to differ
             materially from present expectations include (among others) the
             price of petroleum products, unanticipated costs or delays
             associated with implementing shared technology, completing
             logistical infrastructure projects, leveraging procurement
             strategies, levels of cash flow from operations, obtaining the
             necessary construction and environmental permits, unforeseen
             hazards such as weather conditions and regulatory constraints.

             Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure
                The Marathon Group is executing action plans which include:

             . prioritizing and focusing on those computerized and automated
             systems and processes critical to the operations in terms of
             material operational, safety, environmental and financial risk to
             the company.

             . allocating and committing appropriate resources to fix the
             problem.

             . developing detailed contingency plans for those computerized and
             automated systems and processes critical to the operations in terms
             of material operational, safety, environmental and financial risk
             to the company.

             . communicating with, and aggressively pursuing, critical third
             parties to help ensure the Year 2000 readiness of their products
             and services through use of mailings, telephone contacts, and the
             inclusion of Year 2000 readiness language in purchase orders and
             contracts.

             . performing rigorous Year 2000 tests of critical systems.
             participating in, and exchanging Year 2000 information with
             industry trade associations, such as the American Petroleum
             Institute (API).

             . engaging qualified outside engineering and information technology
             consulting firms to assist in the Year 2000 inventory, assessment
             and readiness.

M-34

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued

             State of Readiness

                Readiness efforts and critical systems testing is 92% complete
             for Information Technology (IT) systems. The remaining systems are
             to be completed by end of the third quarter of 1999. Responses
             have been received from over 80% of the Marathon Group's third
             party software vendors, with 99% indicating that they are or will
             be Year 2000 ready and will provide updated software on a timely
             basis.

                The Marathon Group has completed the inventory on 93% of the
             Non-Information Technology (Non-IT) systems. Assessment of these
             inventories is being completed to identify those systems that will
             require remediation. All Non-IT systems are scheduled to be ready
             by the end of the third quarter of 1999 with minor exceptions.
             Plant maintenance shutdowns scheduled for the fourth quarter of
             1999 will allow us to complete any final readiness efforts.

                The following chart provides the percent of completion for the
             inventory of systems and processes that may be affected by the Year
             2000 ("Y2K Inventory"), analysis performed to determine the Year
             2000 date impact of inventoried systems and processes ("Y2K Impact
             Assessment") and the Year 2000 readiness of the Marathon Group's
             Year 2000 inventory ("Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory"). The
             percent of completion for Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory
             includes all inventory items not date impacted, those items already
             Year 2000 ready and those corrected and made Year 2000 ready
             through the renovation/replacement, testing and implementation
             activities; however, the implementation of certain Year 2000 ready
             IT and Non-IT systems has been deferred until 1999, to avoid
             unnecessary disruption of operations.


             Third Parties

                Third parties are suppliers, customers and vendors, excluding
             third party software vendors discussed previously. Contacts have
             been made with all critical third parties to determine if they will
             be able to provide their service to the Marathon Group after the
             year 2000. Follow-up continues with those third parties not
             responding or returning an unacceptable response. If it is
             determined that there is a significant risk, an effort will be made
             to work with such parties. If this is not successful, a new
             provider of the same services will be sought.

             The Costs to Address Year 2000 Issues

                The estimated costs associated with Year 2000 readiness, are
             approximately $36 million, including $19 million of incremental
             costs. This reflects an increase of $8 million from the previously
             reported estimate of total incremental costs. The estimated cost
             increase results primarily from increased use of external
             consultants and increased internal staffing of Y2K operational
             teams. Total costs incurred as of January 31, 1999, were $17
             million, including $8 million of incremental costs. As Y2K impact
             assessment nears completion and the renovation planning, readiness
             implementation and testing evolve, the estimated costs may change.

             The Risks of the Company's Year 2000 Issues

                The most reasonably likely worst case Year 2000 scenario would
             be the inability of critical third party suppliers, such as utility
             providers, telecommunication companies, and other critical
             suppliers, such as drilling equipment suppliers, platform
             suppliers, crude oil suppliers and pipeline carriers, to continue
             providing their products and services. This could pose the greatest
             material operational, safety, environmental and/or financial risk
             to the company.

                In addition, the lack of accurate and timely Year 2000 date
             impact information from suppliers of automation and process control
             systems and processes is a concern. Without quality information
             from suppliers, specifically on embedded chip technology, some Year
             2000 problems could go undetected until after January 1, 2000.




                                                                            M-35

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis continued


             Contingency Planning

                Representatives of the Marathon Group have participated with a
             work group of the API Year 2000 Task force to develop a contingency
             plan format. This format includes guidelines to develop a plan that
             will cover the Year 2000 areas of concern. Many business unit
             contingency planning teams have been formed and are actively
             working on contingency plans for the systems and processes critical
             to the operations in terms of material operational, safety,
             environmental and financial risk to the company. These plans are to
             be completed and tested, when practical, by the end of the third
             quarter of 1999.

                The foregoing Year 2000 discussion includes forward-looking
             statements of the Marathon Group's efforts and management's
             expectations relating to Year 2000 readiness. These statements are
             based on certain assumptions  including, but not limited to, the
             availability of programming and testing resources, vendors' ability
             to install or modify proprietary hardware and software,
             unanticipated problems identified in the ongoing Year 2000
             readiness review, the effectiveness and execution of contingency
             plans and the level of incremental costs associated with Year 2000
             readiness efforts. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect,
             actual results could differ materially from present expectations.

             Accounting Standards

                In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public
             Accountants issued Statement of Position No. 98-1, "Accounting for
             the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal
             Use" ("SOP 98-1"). SOP 98-1 provides guidelines for companies to
             capitalize or expense costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-
             use software. USX adopted SOP 98-1 effective January 1, 1999. The
             incremental impact on results of operations of adoption of SOP 98-1
             is likely to be initially favorable since certain qualifying costs
             will be capitalized and amortized over future periods.

                In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
             Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting
             for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". This new
             standard requires recognition of all derivatives as either assets
             or liabilities at fair value. This new standard may result in
             additional volatility in both current period earnings and other
             comprehensive income as a result of recording recognized and
             unrecognized gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair
             value of derivative instruments. At adoption this new standard
             requires a comprehensive review of all outstanding derivative
             instruments to determine whether or not their use meets the hedge
             accounting criteria. It is possible that there will be derivative
             instruments employed in our businesses that do not meet all of the
             designated hedge criteria and they will be reflected in income on a
             mark-to-market basis. Based upon the strategies currently used by
             USX and the level of activity related to forward exchange contracts
             and commodity-based derivative instruments in recent periods, USX
             does not anticipate the effect of adoption to have a material
             impact on either financial position or results of operations of the
             Marathon Group. USX plans to adopt the standard effective January
             1, 2000, as required.


M-36

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



             Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments

                USX employs a strategic approach of limiting its use of
             derivative instruments principally to hedging activities, whereby
             gains and losses are generally offset by price changes in the
             underlying commodity. Based on this approach, combined with risk
             assessment procedures and internal controls, management believes
             that its use of derivative instruments does not expose the Marathon
             Group to material risk; however, the Marathon Group's use of
             derivative instruments for hedging activities could materially
             affect the Marathon Group's results of operations in particular
             quarterly or annual periods. This is primarily because use of such
             instruments may limit the company's ability to benefit from
             favorable price movements. However, management believes that use of
             these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on
             financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting
             policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 2 to the
             Marathon Group Financial Statements.

             Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks

                In the normal course of its business, the Marathon Group is
             exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the
             purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas and refined
             products. To a lesser extent, the Marathon Group is exposed to the
             risk of price fluctuations on natural gas liquids, electricity and
             petroleum feedstocks used as raw materials. The Marathon Group is
             also exposed to effects of price fluctuations on the value of its
             commodity inventories.

                The Marathon Group's market risk strategy has generally been to
             obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow
             operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by
             supply and demand. However, the Marathon Group uses fixed-price
             contracts and derivative commodity instruments to manage a
             relatively small portion of its commodity price risk. The Marathon
             Group uses fixed-price contracts for portions of its natural gas
             production to manage exposure to fluctuations in natural gas
             prices. In addition, the Marathon Group uses derivative commodity
             instruments such as exchange-traded futures contracts and options,
             and over-the-counter ("OTC") commodity swaps and options to manage
             exposure to market risk related to the purchase, production or sale
             of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and electricity. The
             Marathon Group's strategic approach is to limit the use of these
             instruments principally to hedging activities. Accordingly, gains
             and losses on derivative commodity instruments are generally offset
             by the effects of price changes in the underlying commodity.
             However, certain derivative commodity instruments have the effect
             of restoring the equity portion of fixed-price sales of natural gas
             to variable market-based pricing. These instruments are used as
             part of the Marathon Group's overall risk management programs.

                                                                            M-37

 
             Quantitative and qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk  continued


                Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pretax income
             of hypothetical 10% and 25% changes in commodity prices for open
             derivative commodity instruments for the Marathon Group as of
             December 31, 1998, are provided in the following table/(a)/:


        /(a)/  Gains and losses on derivative commodity instruments are
               generally offset by price changes in the underlying commodity.
               Effects of these offsets are not reflected in the sensitivity
               analyses. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on
               pretax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% changes in closing
               commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31,
               1998. Marathon Group management evaluates its portfolio of
               derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adds or
               revises strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions and
               changes in risk profiles. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to
               December 31, 1998, would cause future pretax income effects to
               differ from those presented in the table.
        /(b)/  The number of net open contracts varied throughout 1998,
               from a low of 1,268 contracts at January 1, to a high of 17,359
               contracts at September 24, and averaged 8,171 for the year. The
               derivative commodity instruments used and hedging positions taken
               also varied throughout 1998, and will continue to vary in the
               future. Because of these variations in the composition of the
               portfolio over time, the number of open contracts, by itself,
               cannot be used to predict future income effects.
        /(c)/  The calculation of sensitivity amounts for basis swaps assumes
               that the physical and paper indices are perfectly correlated.
               Gains and losses on options are based on changes in intrinsic
               value only.
        /(d)/  The direction of the price change used in calculating the
               sensitivity amount for each commodity reflects that which would
               result in the largest incremental decrease in pretax income when
               applied to the derivative commodity instruments used to hedge
               that commodity.

                While derivative commodity instruments are generally used to
             reduce risks from unfavorable commodity price movements, they also
             may limit the opportunity to benefit from favorable movements.
             During the fourth quarter of 1996, certain hedging strategies
             matured which limited the Marathon Group's ability to benefit from
             favorable market price increases on the sales of equity crude oil
             and natural gas production, resulting in pretax hedging losses of
             $33 million. In total, Marathon's upstream operations recorded net
             pretax hedging losses of $3 million in 1998, compared with net
             losses of $3 million in 1997, and net losses of $38 million in
             1996.

                Marathon's downstream operations generally use derivative
             commodity instruments to lock-in costs of certain raw material
             purchases, to protect carrying values of inventories and to protect
             margins on fixed-price sales of refined products. In total,
             Marathon's downstream operations recorded net pretax hedging gains,
             net of the 38% minority interest in MAP, of $28 million in 1998,
             compared with net gains of $29 million in 1997, and net losses of
             $22 million in 1996. Essentially, all of these upstream and
             downstream gains and losses were offset by changes in the prices of
             the underlying hedged commodities, with the net effect
             approximating the targeted results of the hedging strategies. For
             additional quantitative information relating to derivative
             commodity instruments, including aggregate contract values and fair
             values, where appropriate, see Note 25 to the Marathon Group
             Financial Statements.

                The Marathon Group is subject to basis risk, caused by factors
             that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices
             reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market
             price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices
             are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary
             from prices experienced in local markets. For example, New York
             Mercantile Exchange ("NYMEX") contracts for natural gas are priced
             at Louisiana's Henry Hub, while the underlying quantities of
             natural gas may be produced and sold in the Western United States
             at prices that do not move in strict correlation with NYMEX prices.
             To the extent that commodity price changes in one region are not
             reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no
             longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased exposure
             to basis risk. These regional price differences could yield
             favorable or unfavorable results. OTC transactions are being used
             to manage exposure to a portion of basis risk.

M-38

 
             Quantitative and qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk  continued



                The Marathon Group is subject to liquidity risk, caused by
             timing delays in liquidating contract positions due to a potential
             inability to identify a counterparty willing to accept an
             offsetting position. Due to the large number of active
             participants, liquidity risk exposure is relatively low for
             exchange-traded transactions.

             Interest Rate Risk

                USX is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on
             certain of its non-derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity
             analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10%
             decrease in year-end 1998 interest rates on the fair value of the
             Marathon Group's specifically attributed non-derivative financial
             instruments and the Marathon Group's portion of USX's non-
             derivative financial instruments attributed to both groups, is
             provided in the following table:

        /(a)/  Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
               notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest, approximate
               carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in
               interest rates due to the short-term maturity of the instruments.
               Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table.
        /(b)/  See Note 26 to the Marathon Group Financial Statements.
        /(c)/  Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated
               incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest
               rates at December 31, 1998, on the fair value of non-derivative
               financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a
               10% decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of USX's
               long-term debt at December 31, 1998.
        /(d)/  For additional information, see Note 20 to the Marathon
               Group Financial Statements.
        /(e)/  Fair value was based on market prices where available, or
               current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and
               maturities. For additional information, see Note 13 to the
               Marathon Group Financial Statements.
        /(f)/  See Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.

                At December 31, 1998, USX's portfolio of long-term debt was
             comprised primarily of fixed-rate instruments. Therefore, the fair
             value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of
             interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the
             $107 million increase in the fair value of long-term debt assuming
             a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. However, USX's
             sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases
             in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect
             USX's results and cash flows only to the extent that USX elected to
             repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed-rate
             debt portfolio at prices above carrying value.

                                                                            M-39

 
             Quantitative and qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk  continued



             Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

                USX is subject to the risk of price fluctuations related to
             anticipated revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for
             capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated
             in currencies other than U.S. dollars. USX has not generally used
             derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, USX has made
             limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to
             certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 1998, USX had
             open Canadian dollar forward purchase contracts with a total
             carrying value of $36 million. A 10% increase in the December 31,
             1998, Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar forward rate would result in a
             charge to income of $3 million. The entire amount of these
             contracts is attributed to the Marathon Group.

             Equity Price Risk

                At December 31, 1998, the Marathon Group had no material
             exposure to equity price risk.

             Safe Harbor

                The Marathon Group's quantitative and qualitative disclosures
             about market risk include forward-looking statements with respect
             to management's opinion about risks associated with the Marathon
             Group's use of derivative instruments. These statements are based
             on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry
             supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas and refined
             products. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be
             inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to the Marathon Group's
             hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the
             forward-looking statements.

M-40

 
         U. S. Steel Group



                Index to Financial Statements, Supplementary Data,
                Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Quantitative and
                Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
  
                                                                Page
                                                                ----

Management's Report...........................................   S-1

Audited Financial Statements:

 Report of Independent Accountants............................   S-1

 Statement of Operations......................................   S-2

 Balance Sheet................................................   S-3

 Statement of Cash Flows......................................   S-4

 Notes to Financial Statements................................   S-5

Selected Quarterly Financial Data.............................  S-21

Principal Unconsolidated Affiliates...........................  S-22

Supplementary Information.....................................  S-22

Five-Year Operating Summary...................................  S-23

Five-Year Financial Summary...................................  S-24

Management's Discussion and Analysis..........................  S-25

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk....  S-38

                                                            
                                                            

 
             Management's Report

                The accompanying financial statements of the U. S. Steel Group
             are the responsibility of and have been prepared by USX Corporation
             (USX) in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
             They necessarily include some amounts that are based on best
             judgments and estimates. The U. S. Steel Group financial
             information displayed in other sections of this report is
             consistent with these financial statements.

                USX seeks to assure the objectivity and integrity of its
             financial records by careful selection of its managers, by
             organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of
             responsibility and by communications programs aimed at assuring
             that its policies and methods are understood throughout the
             organization.

                USX has a comprehensive formalized system of internal
             accounting controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that
             assets are safeguarded and that financial records are reliable.
             Appropriate management monitors the system for compliance, and the
             internal auditors independently measure its effectiveness and
             recommend possible improvements thereto. In addition, as part of
             their audit of the financial statements, USX's independent
             accountants, who are elected by the stockholders, review and test
             the internal accounting controls selectively to establish a basis
             of reliance thereon in determining the nature, extent and timing of
             audit tests to be applied.

                The Board of Directors pursues its oversight role in the area of
             financial reporting and internal accounting control through its
             Audit Committee. This Committee, composed solely of nonmanagement
             directors, regularly meets (jointly and separately) with the
             independent accountants, management and internal auditors to
             monitor the proper discharge by each of its responsibilities
             relative to internal accounting controls and the consolidated and
             group financial statements.




             Report of Independent Accountants

             To the Stockholders of USX Corporation:

                In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements appearing
             on pages S-2 through S-20 present fairly, in all material respects,
             the financial position of the U. S. Steel Group at December 31,
             1998 and 1997, and the results of its operations and its cash flows
             for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998,
             in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These
             financial statements are the responsibility of USX's management;
             our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
             statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
             statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
             which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
             reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
             free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
             test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
             financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
             significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
             overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
             audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

                       The U. S. Steel Group is a business unit of USX
             Corporation (as described in Note 1, page S-5); accordingly, the
             financial statements of the U. S. Steel Group should be read in
             connection with the consolidated financial statements of USX
             Corporation.



             PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
             600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219-2794
             February 9, 1999




                                                                             S-1

 
             Statement of Operations



             Income Per Common Share Applicable to Steel Stock

See Note 23, for a description and computation of income per common share.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




S-2

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


                                                                             S-3

 

See Note 9, for supplemental cash flow information.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


S-4

 
             Notes to Financial Statements

1. Basis of Presentation

             After the redemption of the USX -- Delhi Group stock on January
             26, 1998, USX Corporation (USX) has two classes of common stock:
             USX -- U. S. Steel Group Common Stock (Steel Stock) and USX --  
             Marathon Group Common Stock (Marathon Stock), which are intended to
             reflect the performance of the U. S. Steel Group and the Marathon
             Group, respectively.

                 The financial statements of the U. S. Steel Group include
             the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for
             all businesses of USX other than the businesses, assets and
             liabilities included in the Marathon Group, and a portion of the
             corporate assets and liabilities and related transactions which are
             not separately identified with ongoing operating units of USX. The
             U. S. Steel Group financial statements are prepared using the
             amounts included in the USX consolidated financial statements. For
             a description of the U. S. Steel Group's operating segment, see
             Note 8.

                 Although the financial statements of the U. S. Steel
             Group and the Marathon Group separately report the assets,
             liabilities (including contingent liabilities) and stockholders'
             equity of USX attributed to each such Group, such attribution of
             assets, liabilities (including contingent liabilities) and
             stockholders' equity between the U. S. Steel Group and the Marathon
             Group for the purpose of preparing their respective financial
             statements does not affect legal title to such assets or
             responsibility for such liabilities. Holders of Steel Stock and
             Marathon Stock are holders of common stock of USX, and continue to
             be subject to all the risks associated with an investment in USX
             and all of its businesses and liabilities. Financial impacts
             arising from one Group that affect the overall cost of USX's
             capital could affect the results of operations and financial
             condition of the other Group. In addition, net losses of either
             Group, as well as dividends and distributions on any class of USX
             Common Stock or series of preferred stock and repurchases of any
             class of USX Common Stock or series of preferred stock at prices in
             excess of par or stated value, will reduce the funds of USX legally
             available for payment of dividends on both classes of Common Stock.
             Accordingly, the USX consolidated financial information should be
             read in connection with the U. S. Steel Group financial
             information.

2. Summary of Principal Accounting Policies

             Principles applied in consolidation -- These financial 
             statements include the accounts of the U. S. Steel Group. The U. S.
             Steel Group and the Marathon Group financial statements, taken
             together, comprise all of the accounts included in the USX
             consolidated financial statements.

                 Investments in entities over which the U. S. Steel Group
             has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method
             of accounting and are carried at the U. S. Steel Group's share of
             net assets plus loans and advances. Investments in companies whose
             stock has no readily determinable fair value are carried at cost.

             Use of estimates -- Generally accepted accounting principles
             require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
             the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
             contingent assets and liabilities at year-end and the reported
             amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Significant items
             subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying
             value of long-lived assets; valuation allowances for receivables,
             inventories and deferred income tax assets; environmental
             liabilities; liabilities for potential tax deficiencies and
             potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and
             obligations related to employee benefits. Additionally, certain
             estimated liabilities are recorded when management commits to a
             plan to close an operating facility or to exit a business activity.
             Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions
             used.

             Revenue recognition -- Revenues principally include sales,
             dividend and affiliate income, gains or losses on the disposal of
             assets and gains or losses from changes in ownership interests.

                 Sales are recognized when products are shipped or
             services are provided to customers. Income from affiliates includes
             the U. S. Steel Group's proportionate share of income from equity
             method investments.

                 When long-lived assets depreciated on an individual basis
             are sold or otherwise disposed of, any gains or losses are
             reflected in income. Such gains or losses on the disposal of long-
             lived assets are recognized when title passes to the buyer and, if
             applicable, all significant regulatory approvals are received.
             Proceeds from disposal of long-lived assets depreciated on a group
             basis are credited to accumulated depreciation, depletion and
             amortization with no immediate effect on income.

                 Gains or losses from a change in ownership of an
             unconsolidated affiliate are recognized in revenues in the period
             of change.



                                                                             S-5

 
             Cash and cash equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents include
             cash on hand and on deposit and highly liquid debt instruments with
             maturities generally of three months or less.
        
             Inventories -- Inventories are carried at lower of cost or 
             market. Cost of inventories is determined primarily under the last-
             in, first-out (LIFO) method.

             Derivative instruments -- The U. S. Steel Group engages in
             commodity risk management activities within the normal course of
             its business as an end-user of derivative instruments (Note 25).
             Management is authorized to manage exposure to price fluctuations
             related to the purchase of natural gas, refined products and
             nonferrous metals through the use of a variety of derivative
             financial and nonfinancial instruments. Derivative financial
             instruments require settlement in cash and include such instruments
             as over-the-counter (OTC) commodity swap agreements and OTC
             commodity options. Derivative nonfinancial instruments require or
             permit settlement by delivery of commodities and include exchange-
             traded commodity futures contracts and options. At times,
             derivative positions are closed, prior to maturity, simultaneous
             with the underlying physical transaction and the effects are
             recognized in income accordingly. The U. S. Steel Group's practice
             does not permit derivative positions to remain open if the
             underlying physical market risk has been removed. Changes in the
             market value of derivative instruments are deferred, including both
             closed and open positions, and are subsequently recognized in
             income as cost of sales in the same period as the underlying
             transaction. Premiums on all commodity-based option contracts are
             initially recorded based on the amount paid or received; the
             options' market value is subsequently recorded as a receivable or
             payable, as appropriate. The margin receivable accounts required
             for open commodity contracts reflect changes in the market prices
             of the underlying commodity and are settled on a daily basis.

                 Forward exchange contracts are used to manage currency
             risks related to commitments for capital expenditures and existing
             assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. Gains or
             losses related to firm commitments are deferred and included with
             the underlying transaction; all other gains or losses are
             recognized in income in the current period as sales, cost of sales,
             interest income or expense, or other income, as appropriate.
             Forward exchange contract values are included in receivables or
             payables, as appropriate.

                 Recorded deferred gains or losses are reflected within
             other current and noncurrent assets or accounts payable and
             deferred credits and other liabilities. Cash flows from the use of
             derivative instruments are reported in the same category as the
             hedged item in the statement of cash flows.

             Long-lived assets -- Depreciation is generally computed using a
             modified straight-line method based upon estimated lives of assets
             and production levels. The modification factors range from a
             minimum of 85% at a production level below 81% of capability, to a
             maximum of 105% for a 100% production level. No modification is
             made at the 95% production level, considered the normal long-range
             level.

                 Depletion of mineral properties is based on rates which
             are expected to amortize cost over the estimated tonnage of
             minerals to be removed.

                 The U. S. Steel Group evaluates impairment of its long-lived
             assets on an individual asset basis or by logical groupings of
             assets. Assets deemed to be impaired are written down to their fair
             value, including any related goodwill, using discounted future cash
             flows and, if available, comparable market values.

             Environmental remediation -- The U. S. Steel Group provides for
             remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to
             remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is
             reasonably determinable. Generally, the timing of remediation
             accruals coincides with completion of a feasibility study or the
             commitment to a formal plan of action. Remediation liabilities are
             accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposure and are
             discounted in certain instances.

             Postemployment benefits -- The U. S. Steel Group recognizes an
             obligation to provide postemployment benefits, primarily for
             disability-related claims covering indemnity and medical payments.
             The obligation for these claims and the related periodic costs are
             measured using actuarial techniques and assumptions, including an
             appropriate discount rate, analogous to the required methodology
             for measuring pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.
             Actuarial gains and losses are deferred and amortized over future
             periods.

             Insurance -- The U. S. Steel Group is insured for catastrophic
             casualty and certain property and business interruption exposures,
             as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract.
             Costs resulting from noninsured losses are charged against income
             upon occurrence.

             Reclassifications -- Certain reclassifications of prior years'
             data have been made to conform to 1998 classifications.

3. New Accounting Standards

            The following accounting standards were adopted by USX:

                Reporting comprehensive income -- Effective January 1,
                1998, USX adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income". This Standard
                establishes requirements for reporting and display of
                comprehensive income and its components in the financial
                statements. Comprehensive income is defined as the change in
                equity of a business enterprise during a period from
                transactions and other events from nonowner sources. It includes
                all changes in equity during a period except those resulting
                from investments by and distributions to owners. See disclosures
                of comprehensive income at Note 20 and on page U-7 of the USX
                consolidated financial statements.



S-6

 
                Disclosures of operating segments -- USX adopted in 1998,
                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,
                "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
                Information", which establishes new standards for reporting
                information about operating segments and related disclosures
                about products and services, geographic areas and major
                customers. The most significant new requirement of this Standard
                is that reportable operating segments be based on an
                enterprise's internally reported business segments. See
                disclosures of operating segments at Note 8.

                Disclosures of postretirement benefits -- USX adopted in 1998,
                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132, "Employers'
                Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits"
                (SFAS No. 132), which revises and standardizes the reporting
                requirements for postretirement benefits. However, the Standard
                does not change the measurement and recognition of those
                benefits. The U. S. Steel Group has complied with SFAS No. 132
                by disclosing pension and other postretirement benefits at Note
                12.

                Environmental remediation liabilities -- Effective January 1,
                1997, USX adopted American Institute of Certified Public
                Accountants Statement of Position No. 96-1, "Environmental
                Remediation Liabilities" (SOP 96-1), which provides additional
                interpretation of existing accounting standards related to
                recognition, measurement and disclosure of environmental
                remediation liabilities. As a result of adopting SOP 96-1, the
                U. S. Steel Group identified additional environmental
                remediation liabilities of $35 million, of which $28 million was
                discounted to a present value of $13 million and $7 million was
                not discounted. Assumptions used in the calculation of the
                present value amount included an inflation factor of 2% and an
                interest rate of 7% over a range of 22 to 30 years. The net
                unfavorable effect of adoption on the U. S. Steel Group's income
                from operations at January 1, 1997, was $20 million.

                In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
             issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
             "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
             (SFAS No. 133). This new Standard requires recognition of all
             derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair value. SFAS No.
             133 may result in additional volatility in both current period
             earnings and other comprehensive income as a result of recording
             recognized and unrecognized gains and losses resulting from changes
             in the fair value of derivative instruments. SFAS No. 133 requires
             a comprehensive review of all outstanding derivative instruments to
             determine whether or not their use meets the hedge accounting
             criteria. It is possible that there will be derivative instruments
             employed in our businesses that do not meet all of the designated
             hedge criteria and they will be reflected in income on a mark-to-
             market basis. Based upon the strategies currently employed by the
             U. S. Steel Group and the level of activity related to commodity-
             based derivative instruments in recent periods, the U. S. Steel
             Group does not anticipate the effect of adoption to have a material
             impact on either financial position or results of operations. The
             U. S. Steel Group plans to adopt SFAS No. 133 effective January 1,
             2000, as required.

4. Corporate Activities

             Financial activities -- As a matter of policy, USX manages most
             financial activities on a centralized, consolidated basis. Such
             financial activities include the investment of surplus cash; the
             issuance, repayment and repurchase of short-term and long-term
             debt; the issuance, repurchase and redemption of preferred stock;
             and the issuance and repurchase of common stock. Transactions
             related primarily to invested cash, short-term and long-term debt
             (including convertible debt), related net interest and other
             financial costs, and preferred stock and related dividends are
             attributed to the U. S. Steel Group, the Marathon Group and, prior
             to November 1, 1997, the Delhi Group based upon the cash flows of
             each group for the periods presented and the initial capital
             structure of each group. Most financing transactions are attributed
             to and reflected in the financial statements of the groups. See
             Note 10, for the U. S. Steel Group's portion of USX's financial
             activities attributed to the groups. However, transactions such as
             leases, certain collateralized financings, certain indexed debt
             instruments, financial activities of consolidated entities which
             are less than wholly owned by USX and transactions related to
             securities convertible solely into any one class of common stock
             are or will be specifically attributed to and reflected in their
             entirety in the financial statements of the group to which they
             relate.

             Corporate general and administrative costs -- Corporate general
             and administrative costs are allocated to the U. S. Steel Group,
             the Marathon Group and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi Group
             based upon utilization or other methods management believes to be
             reasonable and which consider certain measures of business
             activities, such as employment, investments and sales. The costs
             allocated to the U. S. Steel Group were $24 million in 1998, $33
             million in 1997 and $28 million in 1996, and primarily consist of
             employment costs including pension effects, professional services,
             facilities and other related costs associated with corporate
             activities.

             Income taxes -- All members of the USX affiliated group are
             included in the consolidated United States federal income tax
             return filed by USX. Accordingly, the provision for federal income
             taxes and the related payments or refunds of tax are determined on
             a consolidated basis. The consolidated provision and the related
             tax payments or refunds have been reflected in the U. S. Steel
             Group, the



                                                                             S-7

 
             Marathon Group and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi Group
             financial statements in accordance with USX's tax allocation
             policy. In general, such policy provides that the consolidated tax
             provision and related tax payments or refunds are allocated among
             the U. S. Steel Group, Marathon Group and, prior to November 1,
             1997, the Delhi Group, for group financial statement purposes,
             based principally upon the financial income, taxable income,
             credits, preferences and other amounts directly related to the
             respective groups.

                 For tax provision and settlement purposes, tax benefits
             resulting from attributes (principally net operating losses and
             various tax credits), which cannot be utilized by one of the groups
             on a separate return basis but which can be utilized on a
             consolidated basis in that year or in a carryback year, are
             allocated to the group that generated the attributes. To the extent
             that one of the groups is allocated a consolidated tax attribute
             which, as a result of expiration or otherwise, is not ultimately
             utilized on the consolidated tax return, the prior years'
             allocation of such attribute is adjusted such that the effect of
             the expiration is borne by the group that generated the attribute.
             Also, if a tax attribute cannot be utilized on a consolidated basis
             in the year generated or in a carryback year, the prior years'
             allocation of such consolidated tax effects is adjusted in a
             subsequent year to the extent necessary to allocate the tax
             benefits to the group that would have realized the tax benefits on
             a separate return basis. As a result, the allocated group amounts
             of taxes payable or refundable are not necessarily comparable to
             those that would have resulted if the groups had filed separate tax
             returns.

5. Gain on Affiliate Stock Offering

             In 1996, an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of RTI International
             Metals, Inc. (RTI) (formerly RMI Titanium Company) common stock was
             sold in a public offering at a price of $18.50 per share and total
             net proceeds of $121 million. Included in the offering were 2.3
             million shares sold by USX for net proceeds of $40 million. The U.
             S. Steel Group recognized a total pretax gain of $53 million, of
             which $34 million was attributable to the shares sold by USX and
             $19 million was attributable to the increase in value of its
             investment as a result of the shares sold by RTI. The income tax
             effect related to the total gain was $19 million. As a result of
             this transaction, USX's ownership in RTI decreased from
             approximately 50% to 27%. The U. S. Steel Group continues to
             account for its investment in RTI under the equity method of
             accounting.


6. Extraordinary Loss

             On December 30, 1996, USX irrevocably called for redemption on
             January 30, 1997, $120 million of debt, resulting in a 1996
             extraordinary loss to the U. S. Steel Group of $2 million, net of a
             $1 million income tax benefit.
 
7. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs



/(a)/  See Note 4, for discussion of USX net interest and other
       financial costs attributable to the U. S. Steel Group.



S-8

 
8. Segment Information

             The U. S. Steel Group consists of one operating segment,
             U. S. Steel. U. S. Steel is engaged in the production and sale of
             steel mill products, coke and taconite pellets. U. S. Steel also
             engages in the following related business activities: the
             management of mineral resources, domestic coal mining, engineering
             and consulting services, and real estate development and
             management. For information on sales by product line, see table of
             revenues on page S-25 of Management's Discussion and Analysis.

                 Segment income represents income from operations allocable to
             U. S. Steel and does not include net interest and other financial
             costs, provisions for estimated income taxes and USX corporate
             general and administrative costs. These corporate costs primarily
             consist of employment costs including pension effects, professional
             services, facilities and other related costs associated with
             corporate activities. Also, certain general and administrative
             costs associated with former businesses and the gain on affiliate
             stock offering are not allocated to the segment. In addition,
             pension credits associated with pension plan assets and liabilities
             allocated to pre-1987 retirees and former businesses are not
             allocated to the segment. The following table represents the
             operations of U. S. Steel:


/(a)/  Intergroup sales and transfers were conducted on an arm's-
       length basis.
/(b)/  Differences between segment total and group total represent
       unallocated pension credits and amounts included in
       administrative expenses.
/(c)/  Differences between segment total and group total represent
       amounts related to corporate administrative activities.

                 The following schedule reconciles segment revenues and
             income to amounts reported in the U. S. Steel Group's financial
             statements:




                                                                             S-9

 

/(a)/  Includes property, plant and equipment and investments in affiliates.

 
9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information






S-10

 
10. Financial Activities Attributed to Groups

             The following is the portion of USX financial activities
             attributed to the U. S. Steel Group. These amounts exclude amounts
             specifically attributed to the U. S. Steel Group.

/(a)/  For details of USX long-term debt and preferred stock of
       subsidiary, see Notes 17 and 25, respectively, to the USX
       consolidated financial statements.
/(b)/  Primarily reflects 1997 forward currency contracts used to
       manage currency risks related to USX debt and interest
       denominated in a foreign currency.
/(c)/  The U. S. Steel Group's net interest and other financial
       costs reflect weighted average effects of all financial
       activities attributed to all groups.


/(a)/  See Note 17, to the USX consolidated financial statements
       for details of interest rates, maturities and other terms of
       long-term debt.
/(b)/  As described in Note 4, certain financial activities are
       specifically attributed only to the U. S. Steel Group and the
       Marathon Group.
/(c)/  Most long-term debt activities of USX Corporation and its
       wholly owned subsidiaries are attributed to all groups (in total,
       but not with respect to specific debt issues) based on their
       respective cash flows (Notes 4, 9 and 10).



                                                                            S-11

 
12. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

             The U. S. Steel Group has noncontributory defined benefit
             pension plans covering substantially all employees. Benefits under
             these plans are based upon years of service and final average
             pensionable earnings, or a minimum benefit based upon years of
             service, whichever is greater. In addition, pension benefits are
             also provided to most salaried employees based upon a percent of
             total career pensionable earnings. Certain of these plans provide
             benefits to USX corporate employees, and the related costs or
             credits for such employees are allocated to all groups (Note 4).
             The U. S. Steel Group also participates in multiemployer plans,
             most of which are defined benefit plans associated with coal
             operations.

                       The U. S. Steel Group also has defined benefit retiree
             health and life insurance plans (other benefits) covering most
             employees upon their retirement. Health benefits are provided, for
             the most part, through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major
             medical benefit provisions subject to various cost sharing
             features. Life insurance benefits are provided to nonunion retiree
             beneficiaries primarily based on employees' annual base salary at
             retirement. These plans provide benefits to USX corporate
             employees, and the related costs for such employees are allocated
             to all groups (Note 4). For union retirees, benefits are provided
             for the most part based on fixed amounts negotiated in labor
             contracts with the appropriate unions. Except for certain life
             insurance benefits paid from reserves held by insurance carriers
             and benefits required to be funded by union contracts, most other
             benefits have not been prefunded.





S-12

 

/(a)/  Represents payments to a multiemployer health care benefit plan created
       by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 based on assigned
       beneficiaries receiving benefits. The present value of this unrecognized
       obligation is broadly estimated to be $103 million, including the effects
       of future medical inflation, and this amount could increase if additional
       beneficiaries are assigned .

/(b)/  Represents costs of the 1998 voluntary early retirement program.



                 For measurement purposes, an 8% annual rate of increase in the
             per capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed for
             1999. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5% for 2005 and
             remain at that level thereafter.

                 A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
             trend rates would have the following effects:

13. Intergroup Transactions

             Sales and purchases -- U. S. Steel Group sales to the Marathon
             Group totaled $2 million in 1998 and 1997. U. S. Steel Group
             purchases from the Marathon Group totaled $21 million, $29 million
             and $21 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. At December
             31, 1998 and 1997, U. S. Steel Group accounts payable included $3
             million related to transactions with the Marathon Group. These
             transactions were conducted on an arm's-length basis.

             Income taxes receivable from/payable to the Marathon Group -- At
             December 31, 1998 and 1997, amounts receivable or payable for
             income taxes were included in the balance sheet as follows:


                 These amounts have been determined in accordance with the tax
             allocation policy described in Note 4. Amounts classified as
             current are settled in cash in the year succeeding that in which
             such amounts are accrued. Noncurrent amounts represent estimates of
             intergroup tax effects of certain issues for years that are still
             under various stages of audit and administrative review. Such tax
             effects are not settled among the groups until the audit of those
             respective tax years is closed. The amounts ultimately settled for
             open tax years will be different than recorded noncurrent amounts
             based on the final resolution of all of the audit issues for those
             years.

14. Inventories



                 At December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, the LIFO method
             accounted for 94% and 93% of total inventory value. Current
             acquisition costs were estimated to exceed the above inventory
             values at December 31 by approximately $310 million and $300
             million in 1998 and 1997, respectively.


                                                                            S-13

 
15. Income Taxes

             Income tax provisions and related assets and liabilities
             attributed to the U. S. Steel Group are determined in accordance
             with the USX group tax allocation policy (Note 4).
                 Provisions (credits) for estimated income taxes were:
 

 A reconciliation of federal statutory tax rate (35%) to total provisions
 follows:

 

     Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulted from the following:


/(a)/ USX expects to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the
      benefit of the U. S. Steel Group's deferred tax assets.

                 The consolidated tax returns of USX for the years 1990 through
             1994 are under various stages of audit and administrative review by
             the IRS. USX believes it has made adequate provision for income
             taxes and interest which may become payable for years not yet
             settled.

S-14

 
16. Investments and Long-Term Receivables


 

      Summarized financial information of affiliates accounted for by the equity
     method of accounting follows:


                 Dividends and partnership distributions received from equity
             affiliates were $19 million in 1998, $13 million in 1997 and $25
             million in 1996.

                 U. S. Steel Group purchases of transportation services and
             semi-finished steel from equity affiliates totaled $331 million,
             $424 million and $460 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
             At December 31, 1998 and 1997, U. S. Steel Group payables to these
             affiliates totaled $15 million and $21 million, respectively. U. S.
             Steel Group sales of steel and raw materials to equity affiliates
             totaled $725 million, $802 million and $824 million in 1998, 1997
             and 1996, respectively. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, U. S. Steel
             Group receivables from these affiliates were $177 million and $149
             million, respectively. Generally, these transactions were conducted
             under long-term, market-based contractual arrangements.

17. Leases

             Future minimum commitments for capital leases (including sale-
             leasebacks accounted for as financings) and for operating leases
             having remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year
             are as follows:
 

   Operating lease rental expense:



                 The U. S. Steel Group leases a wide variety of facilities
             and equipment under operating leases, including land and building
             space, office equipment, production facilities and transportation
             equipment. Most long-term leases include renewal options and, in
             certain leases, purchase options. In the event of a change in
             control of USX, as defined in the agreements, or certain other
             circumstances, lease obligations totaling $8 million may be
             declared immediately due and payable.


                                                                            S-15

 
18. Property, Plant and Equipment




                 Amounts in accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization
             for assets acquired under capital leases (including sale-leasebacks
             accounted for as financings) were $77 million and $70 million at
             December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


19. Trust Preferred Securities

             In 1997, USX exchanged approximately 3.9 million 6.75%
             Convertible Quarterly Income Preferred Securities (Trust Preferred
             Securities) of USX Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory business
             trust (Trust), for an equivalent number of shares of its 6.50%
             Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (6.50% Preferred Stock)
             (Exchange). The Exchange resulted in the recording of Trust
             Preferred Securities at a fair value of $182 million and a noncash
             credit to Retained Earnings of $10 million.

                 USX owns all of the common securities of the Trust, which
             was formed for the purpose of the Exchange. (The Trust Common
             Securities and the Trust Preferred Securities are together referred
             to as the Trust Securities.) The Trust Securities represent
             undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the
             Trust, which consist solely of USX 6.75% Convertible Junior
             Subordinated Debentures maturing March 31, 2037 (Debentures),
             having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate initial
             liquidation amount ($50.00 per security and $203 million in total)
             of the Trust Securities issued by the Trust. Interest and principal
             payments on the Debentures will be used to make quarterly
             distributions and to pay redemption and liquidation amounts on the
             Trust Preferred Securities. The quarterly distributions, which
             accumulate at the rate of 6.75% per annum on the Trust Preferred
             Securities and the accretion from fair value to the initial
             liquidation amount, are charged to income and included in net
             interest and other financial costs.

                 Under the terms of the Debentures, USX has the right to defer
             payment of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and, as a
             consequence, monthly distributions on the Trust Preferred
             Securities will be deferred during such period. If USX exercises
             this right, then, subject to limited exceptions, it may not pay any
             dividend or make any distribution with respect to any shares of its
             capital stock.

                 The Trust Preferred Securities are convertible at any time
             prior to the close of business on March 31, 2037 (unless such right
             is terminated earlier under certain circumstances) at the option of
             the holder, into shares of Steel Stock at a conversion price of
             $46.25 per share of Steel Stock (equivalent to a conversion ratio
             of 1.081 shares of Steel Stock for each Trust Preferred Security),
             subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

                 The Trust Preferred Securities may be redeemed at any time at
             the option of USX, at a premium of 103.25% of the initial
             liquidation amount through March 31, 1999, and thereafter,
             declining annually to the initial liquidation amount on April 1,
             2003, and thereafter. They are mandatorily redeemable at March 31,
             2037, or earlier under certain circumstances.

                 Payments related to quarterly distributions and to the payment
             of redemption and liquidation amounts on the Trust Preferred
             Securities by the Trust are guaranteed by USX on a subordinated
             basis. In addition, USX unconditionally guarantees the Trust's
             Debentures. The obligations of USX under the Debentures, and the
             related indenture, trust agreement and guarantee constitute a full
             and unconditional guarantee by USX of the Trust's obligations under
             the Trust Preferred Securities.


S-16

 
20. Stockholders' Equity




/(a)/  See page U-7 of the USX consolidated financial statements relative to the
       annual activity of these adjustments. Total comprehensive income for the
       U. S. Steel Group for the years 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $357 million,
       $444 million and $273 million, respectively.

21. Dividends

             In accordance with the USX Certificate of Incorporation,
             dividends on the Steel Stock and Marathon Stock are limited to the
             legally available funds of USX. Net losses of either Group, as well
             as dividends and distributions on any class of USX Common Stock or
             series of preferred stock and repurchases of any class of USX
             Common Stock or series of preferred stock at prices in excess of
             par or stated value, will reduce the funds of USX legally available
             for payment of dividends on both classes of Common Stock. Subject
             to this limitation, the Board of Directors intends to declare and
             pay dividends on the Steel Stock based on the financial condition
             and results of operations of the U. S. Steel Group, although it has
             no obligation under Delaware law to do so. In making its dividend
             decisions with respect to Steel Stock, the Board of Directors
             considers, among other things, the long-term earnings and cash flow
             capabilities of the U. S. Steel Group as well as the dividend
             policies of similar publicly traded steel companies.

                 Dividends on the Steel Stock are further limited to the
             Available Steel Dividend Amount. At December 31, 1998, the
             Available Steel Dividend Amount was at least $3,336 million. The
             Available Steel Dividend Amount will be increased or decreased, as
             appropriate, to reflect U. S. Steel Group net income, dividends,
             repurchases or issuances with respect to the Steel Stock and
             preferred stock attributed to the U. S. Steel Group and certain
             other items.

22. Sales of Receivables

             The U. S. Steel Group participates in an agreement (the program)
             to sell an undivided interest in certain accounts receivable.
             Payments are collected from the sold accounts receivable; the
             collections are reinvested in new accounts receivable for the
             buyers; and a yield, based on defined short-term market rates, is
             transferred to the buyers. At December 31, 1998, the amount sold
             under the program that had not been collected was $320 million,
             which will be forwarded to the buyers at the end of the agreement
             in 1999, or in the event of earlier contract termination. If the U.
             S. Steel Group does not have a sufficient quantity of eligible
             accounts receivable to reinvest in for the buyers, the size of the
             program will be reduced accordingly. The amount sold under the
             program averaged $347 million in 1998 and $350 million in 1997 and
             1996. The buyers have rights to a pool of receivables that must be
             maintained at a level of at least 115% of the program size. The U.
             S. Steel Group does not generally require collateral for accounts
             receivable, but significantly reduces credit risk through credit
             extension and collection policies, which include analyzing the
             financial condition of potential customers, establishing credit
             limits, monitoring payments and aggressively pursuing delinquent
             accounts. In the event of a change in control of USX, as defined in
             the agreement, the U. S. Steel Group may be required to forward
             payments collected on sold accounts receivable to the buyers.




                                                                            S-17

 
23. Income Per Common Share

             The method of calculating net income per share for the Steel
             Stock, the Marathon Stock and, prior to November 1, 1997, the Delhi
             Stock reflects the USX Board of Directors' intent that the
             separately reported earnings and surplus of the U. S. Steel Group,
             the Marathon Group and the Delhi Group, as determined consistent
             with the USX Certificate of Incorporation, are available for
             payment of dividends to the respective classes of stock, although
             legally available funds and liquidation preferences of these
             classes of stock do not necessarily correspond with these amounts.

                 Basic net income per share is calculated by adjusting net
             income for dividend requirements of preferred stock and, in 1997,
             the noncash credit on exchange of preferred stock and is based on
             the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.

                 Diluted net income per share assumes conversion of convertible
             securities for the applicable periods outstanding and assumes
             exercise of stock options, provided in each case, the effect is not
             antidilutive.


24. Stock-Based Compensation Plans and Stockholder Rights Plan

             USX Stock-Based Compensation Plans and Stockholder Rights Plan are
             discussed in Note 21, and Note 23, respectively, to the USX
             consolidated financial statements.

                 In 1996, USX adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
             Compensation and elected to continue to follow the accounting
             provisions of APB No. 25, as discussed in Note 2, to the USX
             consolidated financial statements. The U. S. Steel Group's actual
             stock-based compensation expense was $-0- in 1998, $8 million in
             1997 and $2 million in 1996. Incremental compensation expense, as
             determined under SFAS No. 123, was not material ($.02 or less per
             share for all years presented). Therefore, pro forma net income and
             earnings per share data have been omitted.



S-18

 
25. Derivative Instruments

             The U. S. Steel Group uses derivative instruments, such as
             commodity swaps, to manage exposure to price fluctuations relevant
             to the cost of natural gas, refined products and nonferrous metals
             used in steel operations.

                 The U. S. Steel Group remains at risk for possible changes in
             the market value of the derivative instrument; however, such risk
             should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying hedged item.
             The U. S. Steel Group is also exposed to credit risk in the event
             of nonperformance by counterparties. The credit worthiness of
             counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use
             of master netting agreements to the extent practical, and full
             performance is anticipated.

                 The following table sets forth quantitative information by
             class of derivative instrument:

/(a)/  The fair value amounts are based on exchange-traded index
       prices and dealer quotes.
/(b)/  Contract or notional amounts do not quantify risk exposure,
       but are used in the calculation of cash settlements under the contracts.
/(c)/  The OTC swap arrangements vary in duration with certain
       contracts extending into 2000.
/(d)/  The forward exchange contract matured in 1998.

26. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

             Fair value of the financial instruments disclosed herein is not
             necessarily representative of the amount that could be realized or
             settled, nor does the fair value amount consider the tax
             consequences of realization or settlement. The following table
             summarizes financial instruments, excluding derivative financial
             instruments disclosed in Note 25, by individual balance sheet
             account. As described in Note 4, the U. S. Steel Group's
             specifically attributed financial instruments and the U. S. Steel
             Group's portion of USX's financial instruments attributed to all
             groups are as follows:


                 Fair value of financial instruments classified as current
             assets or liabilities approximates carrying value due to the short-
             term maturity of the instruments. Fair value of investments and
             long-term receivables was based on discounted cash flows or other
             specific instrument analysis. Fair value of preferred stock of
             subsidiary and trust preferred securities was based on market
             prices. Fair value of long-term debt instruments was based on
             market prices where available or current borrowing rates available
             for financings with similar terms and maturities.

                 The U. S. Steel Group's unrecognized financial instruments
             consist of receivables sold and financial guarantees. It is not
             practicable to estimate the fair value of these forms of financial
             instrument obligations because there are no quoted market prices
             for transactions which are similar in nature. For details relating
             to sales of receivables see Note 22, and for details relating to
             financial guarantees see Note 27.



                                                                            S-19

 
27. Contingencies and Commitments

             USX is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or
             threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments relating to
             the U. S. Steel Group involving a variety of matters, including
             laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these
             matters are discussed below. The ultimate resolution of these
             contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material
             to the U. S. Steel Group financial statements. However, management
             believes that USX will remain a viable and competitive enterprise
             even though it is possible that these contingencies could be
             resolved unfavorably to the U. S. Steel Group.

             Environmental matters --

                 The U. S. Steel Group is subject to federal, state, and local
             laws and regulations relating to the environment. These laws
             generally provide for control of pollutants released into the
             environment and require responsible parties to undertake
             remediation of hazardous waste disposal sites. Penalties may be
             imposed for noncompliance. Accrued liabilities for remediation
             totaled $97 million and $106 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
             respectively. It is not presently possible to estimate the ultimate
             amount of all remediation costs that might be incurred or the
             penalties that may be imposed.

                 For a number of years, the U. S. Steel Group has made
             substantial capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into
             compliance with various laws relating to the environment. In 1998
             and 1997, such capital expenditures totaled $49 million and $43
             million, respectively. The U. S. Steel Group anticipates making
             additional such expenditures in the future; however, the exact
             amounts and timing of such expenditures are uncertain because of
             the continuing evolution of specific regulatory requirements.

             Guarantees --

                 Guarantees by USX of the liabilities of affiliated entities of
             the U. S. Steel Group totaled $81 million at December 31, 1998, and
             $50 million at December 31, 1997. In the event that any defaults of
             guaranteed liabilities occur, USX has access to its interest in the
             assets of the affiliates to reduce potential U. S. Steel Group
             losses resulting from these guarantees. As of December 31, 1998,
             the largest guarantee for a single affiliate was $53 million.

             Commitments --

                 At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the U. S. Steel Group's
             contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment
             totaled $188 million and $156 million, respectively.

                 USX entered into a 15-year take-or-pay arrangement in 1993,
             which requires the U. S. Steel Group to accept pulverized coal each
             month or pay a minimum monthly charge of approximately $1.3
             million. Charges for deliveries of pulverized coal totaled $23
             million in 1998 and $24 million in 1997. If USX elects to terminate
             the contract early, a maximum termination payment of $108 million,
             which declines over the duration of the agreement, may be required.

             Other --

                 On August 1, 1999, U. S. Steel, along with several major steel
             competitors, faces the expiration of the labor agreement with the
             United Steelworkers of America. U. S. Steel's ability to negotiate
             an acceptable labor contract is essential to its ongoing
             operations. Any labor interruptions could have an adverse effect on
             operations, financial results and cash flow.



S-20

 
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)



/(a)/  Composite tape.



                                                                            S-21

 
Principal Unconsolidated Affiliates (Unaudited)




/(a)/  Formerly RMI Titanium Company.





 

Supplementary Information on Mineral Reserves (Unaudited)

See the USX consolidated financial statements for Supplementary Information on
Mineral Reserves relating to the U. S. Steel Group, page U-30.



S-22

 
             Five-Year Operating Summary


             /(a)/ The reduction in coke production in 1997 and 1998 reflected
                   U. S. Steel's entry into a strategic partnership with two
                   limited partners on June 1, 1997, to acquire an interest in
                   three coke batteries at its Clairton (Pa.) Works.
 
 
                                                                            S-23

 
             Five-Year Financial Summary


             /(a)/ Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by-
                   products, engineering and consulting services, real estate
                   development and resource management.



S-24

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis

                The U. S. Steel Group includes U. S. Steel, which is engaged in
             the production and sale of steel mill products, coke, and taconite
             pellets; the management of mineral resources; domestic coal mining;
             real estate development; and engineering and consulting services.
             Certain business activities are conducted through joint ventures
             and partially-owned companies, such as USS/Kobe Steel Company
             ("USS/Kobe"), USS-POSCO Industries ("USS-POSCO"), PRO-TEC Coating
             Company ("PRO-TEC"), Transtar, Inc. ("Transtar"), Clairton 1314B
             Partnership, VSZ U. S. Steel, s. r.o. and RTI International Metals,
             Inc. ("RTI"). Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read
             in conjunction with the U. S. Steel Group's Financial Statements
             and Notes to Financial Statements.

                In 1998, segment income for U. S. Steel operations decreased
             primarily due to lower average steel product prices, lower shipment
             volumes, and less efficient operating levels, resulting from an
             increase in imports and weak tubular markets.

                Certain sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis include
             forward-looking statements concerning trends or events potentially
             affecting the businesses of the U. S. Steel Group. These statements
             typically contain words such as "anticipates," "believes,"
             "estimates," "expects" or similar words indicating that future
             outcomes are not known with certainty and subject to risk factors
             that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those
             projected. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the
             Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements
             are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important
             factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause
             future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in
             forward-looking statements. For additional risk factors affecting
             the businesses of the U. S. Steel Group, see Supplementary Data--
             Disclosures About Forward-Looking Information in USX Form 10-K.


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income

                Revenues for each of the last three years are summarized in the
             following table, which is covered by the report of independent
             accountants.

             /(a)/Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by-
                  products, engineering and consulting services, real estate
                  development and resource management.
             /(b)/For further details, see Note 5 to the U. S. Steel Group
                  Financial Statements.

                Total revenues decreased by $658 million in 1998 from 1997
             primarily due to lower average realized prices, lower steel
             shipment volumes, and lower income from affiliates. Total revenues
             increased by $271 million in 1997 from 1996 primarily due to higher
             average steel product prices and higher shipment volumes.

                                                                            S-25

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                Income from operations for the U. S. Steel Group for the last
             three years was:

             /(a)/Includes income from the production and sale of steel mill
                  products, coke and taconite pellets; the management of mineral
                  resources; domestic coal mining; real estate development; and
                  engineering and consulting services.
             /(b)/Includes the portion of postretirement benefit costs and
                  certain other expenses principally attributable to former
                  business units of the U. S. Steel Group. Results in 1997
                  included charges of $9 million related to environmental
                  accruals and the adoption of SOP 96-1.
             /(c)/For further details, see Note 5 to the U. S. Steel Group
                  Financial Statements.

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations, which decreased $288
             million in 1998 from 1997, included a net favorable $30 million for
             an insurance litigation settlement pertaining to the 1995 Gary
             (Ind.) Works No. 8 blast furnace explosion and charges of $10
             million related to a voluntary workforce reduction plan. Results in
             1997 included a benefit of $40 million in insurance settlement
             payments related to the 1996 hearth breakout at Gary Works No. 13
             blast furnace and a $15 million gain on the sale of the plate mill
             at U. S. Steel's former Texas Works. In addition to the effects of
             these items, the decrease in segment income in 1998 for U. S. Steel
             operations was primarily due to lower average steel prices, lower
             shipments, less efficient operating levels, the cost effects of the
             10 day outage at Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace following a tap
             hole failure, and lower income from affiliates. These unfavorable
             items were partially offset by lower 1998 accruals for profit
             sharing.

                The increase in imports and weak tubular markets negatively
             affected steel shipment levels, steel product prices and operating
             levels in 1998. U. S. Steel shipments declined 8% in 1998 compared
             to 1997. In 1998, raw steel production was negatively affected by a
             planned reline at Gary Works No. 6 blast furnace, an unplanned
             blast furnace outage at the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, and
             the idling of certain facilities to control inventory as a result
             of the increase in imports. In 1998, raw steel capability
             utilization averaged 87.6%, compared to 96.5% in 1997.

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations increased $370 million
             in 1997 compared to 1996. Results in 1996 included $39 million of
             charges related to repair of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace
             and $13 million of charges related to a voluntary workforce
             reduction at the Fairless (Pa.) Works. In addition to the effects
             of these items, the increase in 1997 was primarily due to higher
             steel shipments, higher average realized steel prices, and improved
             operating efficiencies, including the full year availability of the
             Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace. These improvements were partially
             offset by higher 1997 accruals for profit sharing.

S-26

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                The Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, which represents about half
             of Gary Works iron producing capacity and roughly one-fourth of U.
             S. Steel's iron capacity, was idled on April 2, 1996 due to a
             hearth breakout. In addition to direct repair costs, 1996 operating
             results were adversely affected by production inefficiencies at
             Gary, as well as at other U. S. Steel plants, reduced shipments and
             higher costs for purchased iron and semifinished steel. The total
             effect of this unplanned outage on 1996 segment income is estimated
             to have been more than $100 million. USX maintained property damage
             and business interruption insurance coverages for the No. 13 blast
             furnace hearth  breakout and the 1995 Gary Works No. 8 blast
             furnace explosion, subject to a $50 million deductible per
             occurrence for recoverable items. In 1998, USX and its insurance
             companies settled the Gary Works No. 8 blast furnace loss for
             approximately $30 million (net of charges and reserves) in excess
             of the deductible. In 1997, USX and its insurance companies settled
             the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace loss for $40 million in excess
             of the deductible.

                Segment income for U. S. Steel operations included pension costs
             (which are primarily noncash) allocated to the ongoing operations
             of U. S. Steel of $187 million, $169 million, and $172 million in
             1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Pension costs in 1998 included
             $10 million for termination benefits associated to a voluntary
             early retirement program, the settlements for which will
             principally occur in the first half of 1999.

                Items not allocated to segment

                Pension credits associated with pension plan assets and
             liabilities allocated to pre-1987 retirees and former businesses
             are not included in segment income for U. S. Steel operations.
             These pension credits, which are primarily noncash, totaled $373
             million in 1998, compared to $313 million and $330 million in 1997
             and 1996, respectively.

                Pension credits, combined with pension costs included in segment
             income for U. S. Steel operations, resulted in net pension credits
             of $186 million in 1998, $144 million in 1997 and $158 million in
             1996. Net pension credits are expected to be approximately $205
             million in 1999. Future net pension credits can be volatile
             dependent upon the future marketplace performance of plan assets,
             changes in actuarial assumptions regarding such factors as a
             selection of a discount rate and rate of return on assets, changes
             in the amortization levels of transition amounts or prior period
             service costs, plan amendments affecting benefit payout levels and
             profile changes in the beneficiary populations being valued.
             Changes in any of these factors could cause net pension credits to
             change. To the extent net pension credits decline in the future,
             income from operations would be adversely affected. For additional
             information on pensions, see Note 12 to the U. S. Steel Group
             Financial Statements.

                Net interest and other financial costs for each of the last
             three years are summarized in the following table:
             
             /(a)/In December 1996, USX issued $117 million of 6-3/4%
                  Exchangeable Notes Due February 1, 2000 ("Indexed Debt")
                  indexed to the price of RTI common stock. At maturity, USX
                  must exchange these notes for shares of RTI common stock, or
                  redeem the notes for the equivalent amount of cash. The
                  carrying value of Indexed Debt is adjusted quarterly to
                  settlement value, based on changes in the value of RTI common
                  stock. Any resulting adjustment is charged or credited to
                  income and included in interest and other financial costs.
                  USX's 26% interest in RTI continues to be accounted for under
                  the equity method.

                                                                            S-27

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                Adjusted net interest and other financial costs decreased by $11
             million in 1998 as compared with 1997, and by $13 million in 1997
             as compared with 1996, due primarily to lower average debt levels.

                The provision for estimated income taxes in 1998 decreased
             compared to 1997 due to a decline in income from operations, and a
             $9 million favorable foreign tax adjustment in 1998 as a result of
             a favorable resolution of foreign tax litigation. The provision for
             estimated income taxes in 1997 increased compared to 1996 due to
             improved income from operations, a reduction in estimated tax
             credits other than foreign tax credits (primarily nonconventional
             source fuel credits) and an increase in estimated state income tax
             expense. A significant portion of the reduction in the
             nonconventional source fuel credits resulted from U. S. Steel
             Group's entry into a strategic partnership with two limited
             partners to acquire an interest in three coke batteries at its
             Clairton (Pa.) Works. For further discussion on income taxes, see
             Note 15 to the U. S. Steel Group Financial Statements.

                The extraordinary loss on extinguishment of debt of $2 million
             in 1996 represents the portion of the loss on early extinguishment
             of USX debt attributed to the U. S. Steel Group. For additional
             information, see Note 6 to the U. S. Steel Group Financial
             Statements.

                Net income in 1998 was $364 million, compared with net income of
             $452 million in 1997 and net income of $273 million in 1996. Net
             income decreased $88 million in 1998 from 1997, compared with a
             increase of $179 million in 1997 from 1996. The changes in net
             income primarily reflect the factors discussed above.

                Noncash credit from exchange of preferred stock totaled $10
             million in 1997. On May 16, 1997, USX exchanged approximately 3.9
             million 6.75% Convertible Quarterly Income Preferred Securities
             ("Trust Preferred Securities") of USX Capital Trust I, for an
             equivalent number of shares of its outstanding 6.50% Cumulative
             Convertible Preferred Stock ("6.50% Preferred Stock"). The noncash
             credit from exchange of preferred stock represents the difference
             between the carrying value of the 6.50% Preferred Stock ($192
             million) and the fair value of the Trust Preferred Securities of
             USX Capital Trust I ($182 million), at the date of the exchange.
             For additional discussion on the exchange, see Note 19 to the U. S.
             Steel Group Financial Statements.


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and
Liquidity

                Current assets at year-end 1998 decreased $256 million from
             year-end 1997 primarily due to lower trade receivables (which were
             impacted by a decline in revenues) and lower deferred income taxes.

                Current liabilities in 1998 decreased $318 million from 1997
             primarily due to decreased accounts payable, payroll and benefits
             payable, and accrued taxes, which were impacted by a decline in
             revenues and income. The decline in income resulted in lower profit
             sharing accruals in 1998.

                Total long-term debt and notes payable at December 31, 1998 of
             $489 million was $34 million lower than year-end 1997. Total long-
             term debt and notes payable included favorable adjustments to
             carrying value of Indexed Debt of $44 million and $10 million in
             1998 and 1997, respectively. Excluding these adjustments, total
             debt did not change substantially in 1998. Virtually all of the
             debt is a direct obligation of, or is guaranteed by, USX.

S-28

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                Net cash provided from operating activities in 1998 was $372
             million compared with $470 million in 1997. The 1998 period
             included proceeds of $38 million for the insurance litigation
             settlement pertaining to the 1995 Gary Works No. 8 blast furnace
             explosion and the payment of $30 million for the repurchase of sold
             accounts receivable. The 1997 period included payments of $80
             million in elective funding of retiree life insurance of union and
             nonunion participants, $70 million to the United Steelworkers of
             America ("USWA") Voluntary Employee Benefit Association Trust
             (VEBA) ($40 million represented prefunding for years 1998 and
             1999), $49 million to fund the U. S. Steel Group's principal
             pension plan for the 1996 plan year and receipts of $40 million in
             insurance recoveries related to the 1996 Gary Works No. 13 hearth
             breakout. Excluding these items, net cash provided from operating
             activities decreased $265 million in 1998 due mainly to decreased
             profitability and unfavorable working capital changes.

                The U. S. Steel Group's net cash provided from operating
             activities in 1996 reflects payment of $59 million to the Internal
             Revenue Service for certain agreed and unagreed adjustments
             relating to the tax year 1990, and a payment of $28 million related
             to settlement of the Pickering litigation. Excluding these items,
             net cash provided from operating activities increased $456 million
             in 1997 due mainly to increased profitability and favorable working
             capital changes.

                Capital expenditures in 1998 included a reline of the Gary Works
             No. 6 blast furnace, an upgrade to the galvanizing line at Fairless
             Works, replacement of coke battery thruwalls at Gary Works,
             conversion of the Fairfield pipemill to use round instead of square
             blooms and additional environmental expenditures primarily at
             Fairfield Works and Gary Works. Capital expenditures in 1997
             included a blast furnace reline at Mon Valley Works, a new heat
             treat line for plates at Gary Works and additional environmental
             expenditures primarily at Gary Works. Capital expenditures in 1996
             included a blast furnace reline and new galvanizing line at
             Fairfield Works, environmental expenditures primarily at Gary
             Works, and certain spending related to the Gary No. 13 blast
             furnace hearth breakout. Contract commitments for capital
             expenditures at year-end 1998 were $188 million, compared with $156
             million at year-end 1997.

                Capital expenditures for 1999 are expected to be approximately
             $290 million including a new 64" pickle line and upgrades to the
             cold rolling mill at Mon Valley Works, the upgrade of the hot strip
             mill coilers and replacement of coke battery thruwalls at Gary
             Works, the basic oxygen furnace emissions project at Fairfield
             Works, the new customer service center in Detroit to support the
             automotive business, and additional environmental expenditures,
             primarily at  Gary Works.

                The preceding statement concerning expected 1999 capital
             expenditures is a forward-looking statement. This forward-looking
             statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among
             other things) levels of cash flow from operations, unforeseen
             hazards such as weather conditions, explosions or fires, and delays
             in obtaining government or partner approval, which could delay the
             timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly,
             actual results may differ materially from current expectations in
             the forward-looking statement.

                Net cash used in investments in affiliates in 1998 of $73
             million mainly reflects funding for entry into a joint venture in
             Slovakia with VSZ a.s. ("VSZ"). In February 1998, this 50-50 joint
             venture, doing business as VSZ U. S. Steel, s. r.o., took over
             ownership and operation of an existing tin mill facility at VSZ's
             Ocel plant in Kosice, with annual production capability of 140,000
             metric tons. Net cash used in investments in affiliates in 1997 of
             $26 million included funding of equity affiliate capital projects
             (mainly the construction of a second galvanizing line at PRO-TEC),
             partially offset by dividends from equity affiliates. Investments
             in affiliates in 1996 used net cash of $1 million.

                                                                            S-29

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                Cash from disposal of assets totaled $21 million in 1998,
             compared with $420 million in 1997 and $161 million in 1996. The
             1997 proceeds included $361 million from U. S. Steel's entry into a
             strategic partnership with two limited partners to acquire an
             interest in three coke batteries at its Clairton Works. The 1996
             proceeds reflected the sale of U. S. Steel Group's investment in
             National-Oilwell and a portion of its investment in RTI common
             stock.

                In 1996, an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of RTI common stock
             was sold in a public offering. Included in the offering were 2.3
             million shares sold by USX for net proceeds of $40 million. USX
             currently owns approximately 26% of the outstanding common stock of
             RTI. For additional information, see Note 5 to the U. S. Steel
             Group Financial Statements.

                Financial obligations increased by $9 million in 1998 compared
             with a decrease of $567 million in 1997, and an increase of $77
             million in 1996. Financial obligations consist of the U. S. Steel
             Group's portion of USX debt and preferred stock of a subsidiary
             attributed to both  groups as well as debt and financing agreements
             specifically attributed to the U. S. Steel Group. The decrease in
             1997 primarily reflected the net effects of cash from operating
             activities, asset sales and capital expenditures. For a discussion
             of USX financing activities attributed to both groups, see
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of USX Consolidated Financial
             Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity.

             Pension Activity

                USX contributed $49 million in 1997 to fund the U. S. Steel
             Group's principal pension plan for the 1996 plan year.

             Derivative Instruments

                See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
             for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk
             for U. S. Steel Group.

             Liquidity

                For discussion of USX's liquidity and capital resources, see
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of USX Consolidated Financial
             Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity.


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and
Contingencies

                The U. S. Steel Group has incurred and will continue to incur
             substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation
             expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In
             recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process
             changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although
             ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent
             these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected
             in the prices of the U. S. Steel Group's products and services,
             operating results will be adversely affected. The U. S. Steel Group
             believes that all of its domestic competitors are subject to
             similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific
             impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of
             factors, including the age and location of its operating
             facilities, marketing areas, production processes and the specific
             products and services it provides. To the extent that competitors
             are not required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations,
             the competitive position of the U. S. Steel Group could be
             adversely affected.

S-30

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED


                The U. S. Steel Group's environmental expenditures for the last
             three years were/(a)/:
             
             /(a)/Based on previously established U. S. Department of
                  Commerce survey guidelines.
             /(b)/These amounts include spending charged against such reserves,
                  net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include
                  noncash provisions recorded for environmental remediation.

                The U. S. Steel Group's environmental capital expenditures
             accounted for 16%, 16% and 27% of total capital expenditures in
             1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                Compliance expenditures represented 4% of the U. S. Steel
             Group's total costs and expenses in 1998, 1997 and 1996.
             Remediation spending during 1996 to 1998 was mainly related to
             remediation activities at former and present operating locations.
             These projects include continuing remediation at an in situ uranium
             mining operation and former coke-making facilities and the closure
             of permitted hazardous and non-hazardous waste landfills.

                The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") establishes
             standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides
             affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the
             environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations,
             the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks.

                The U. S. Steel Group is in the study phase of RCRA corrective
             action programs at its Fairless Works and its former Geneva Works.
             A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at its Gary
             Works and its Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at
             these facilities, USX is unable to estimate the cost of remediation
             activities, if any, that will be required.

                USX has been notified that it is a potential responsible party
             ("PRP") at 29 waste sites related to the U. S. Steel Group under
             the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
             Liability Act ("CERCLA") as of December 31, 1998. In addition,
             there are 17 sites related to the U. S. Steel Group where USX has
             received information requests or other indications that USX may be
             a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not
             presently available to confirm the existence of liability or make
             any judgment as to the amount thereof. There are also 34 additional
             sites related to the U. S. Steel Group where remediation is being
             sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state,
             or where private parties are seeking remediation through
             discussions or litigation. At many of these sites, USX is one of a
             number of parties involved and the total cost of remediation, as
             well as USX's share thereof, is frequently dependent upon the
             outcome of investigations and remedial studies. The U. S. Steel
             Group accrues for environmental remediation activities when the
             responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of
             associated costs is reasonably determinable. As environmental
             remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as
             additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of
             those previously accrued may be required. See Note 27 to the U. S.
             Steel Group Financial Statements.

                In 1998, USX entered into a consent decree with the
             Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") which resolved alleged
             violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollution Discharge
             Elimination System ("NPDES") permit at Gary Works and provides for
             a sediment remediation project for a section

                                                                            S-31

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

             of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works.
             Contemporaneously, USX entered into a consent decree with the
             public trustees which resolves potential liability for natural
             resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River.
             USX has agreed to pay civil penalties of $2.9 million for the
             alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource
             damages assessment costs, which will be paid in 1999. In addition,
             USX will pay the EPA $1 million at the end of the remediation
             project for future monitoring costs. During the negotiations
             leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were
             made to upgrade plant systems to comply with the NPDES
             requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final
             interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works
             and is expected to cost approximately $30 million over the next six
             years. Estimated remediation and monitoring costs for this project
             have been accrued.

                In 1997, USX adopted American Institute of Certified Public
             Accountants Statement of Position No. 96-1 -- "Environmental
             Remediation Liabilities", which resulted in a $20 million charge.
             For additional information, see Note 3 to the U. S. Steel Group
             Financial Statements.

                New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase
             the U. S. Steel Group's environmental costs, may arise in the
             future. USX intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding
             the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently
             determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected
             by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the
             ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may
             be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on
             presently available information, and existing laws and regulations
             as currently implemented, the U. S. Steel Group does not anticipate
             that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and
             maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 1999. The
             U. S. Steel Group's capital expenditures for environmental are
             expected to be approximately $32 million in 1999 and are expected
             to be spent on projects primarily at Gary Works and Fairfield
             Works. Predictions beyond 1999 can only be broad-based estimates
             which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing
             evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible
             imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of
             new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based
             upon currently identified projects, the U. S. Steel Group
             anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be
             approximately $28 million in 2000; however, actual expenditures may
             vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised
             as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory
             requirements and could increase if additional projects are
             identified or additional requirements are imposed.

                USX is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or
             threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments relating to
             the U. S. Steel Group involving a variety of matters, including
             laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which
             are discussed in Note 27 to the U. S. Steel Group Financial
             Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could,
             individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel
             Group Financial Statements. However, management believes that USX
             will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is
             possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to
             the U. S. Steel Group.


Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations

                Average realized steel prices were 2.1% lower in 1998 versus
             1997 due primarily to U. S. Steel realizing lower prices on sheet
             products. In 1997, average realized steel prices were 2.6% higher
             versus 1996 due primarily to U. S. Steel realizing higher prices
             for tubular and sheet products.

S-32

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                Steel shipments were 10.7 million tons in 1998, 11.6 million
             tons in 1997, and 11.4 million tons in 1996. U. S. Steel Group
             shipments comprised approximately 10% of the domestic steel market
             in 1998. In 1998, U. S. Steel shipments were negatively affected by
             an increase in imports and weak tubular markets. Exports accounted
             for approximately 4% of U. S. Steel Group shipments in 1998, 1997
             and 1996.

                Raw steel production was 11.2 million tons in 1998, compared
             with 12.3 million tons in 1997 and 11.4 million tons in 1996. Raw
             steel production averaged 88% of capability in 1998, compared with
             97% of capability in 1997 and 89% of capability in 1996. In 1998,
             raw steel production was negatively affected by a planned reline at
             Gary Works No. 6 blast furnace, an unplanned blast furnace outage
             at the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, and the idling of certain
             facilities as a result of the increase in imports. U. S. Steel
             Group curtailed its production by keeping the Gary Works No. 6
             blast furnace out of service after a scheduled reline was completed
             in mid-August, 1998, until February, 1999. In addition, raw steel
             production was cut back at Mon Valley Works and Fairfield Works. In
             1996, raw steel production was negatively affected by an unplanned
             blast furnace outage at the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace. U. S.
             Steel's stated annual raw steel production capability was 12.8
             million tons in 1998, 1997 and 1996.

                In addition to cutting back raw steel production in 1998, U. S.
             Steel suspended one of Minntac's five taconite pellet production
             lines in Minnesota, idled the Fairfield Works pipe mill for several
             multiple week periods, and curtailed selected sheet facilities at
             Fairless Works (the curtailments at Fairless Works represented
             about 70 percent of operations as of December 31, 1998).

                On September 30, 1998, U. S. Steel joined with 11 other
             producers and the USWA to file trade cases against Japan, Russia,
             and Brazil. Those filings contend that millions of tons of unfairly
             traded hot rolled carbon sheet products have caused serious injury
             to the domestic steel industry through rapidly falling prices and
             lost business. The U. S. International Trade Commission ("ITC"), in
             its preliminary determination in November 1998, found the domestic
             steel industry was being threatened with material injury as a
             result of imports of hot rolled carbon sheet products from these
             three countries. This preliminary determination of injury is
             subject to further investigation by the ITC and U.S. Department of
             Commerce ("Commerce"). On February 12, 1999, Commerce announced
             preliminary anti-dumping duty margins on hot rolled imports from
             Japan (ranging from approximately 25% to 67%) and Brazil (ranging
             from approximately 50% to 71%) and preliminary countervailing duty
             margins on imports from Brazil (ranging from more than 6% to more
             than 9%). On February 22, 1999, Commerce announced preliminary
             anti-dumping duty margins on hot rolled imports from Russia
             (ranging from approximately 71% to more than 217%). However,
             Commerce announced at the same time that it had initialed an
             agreement with Russia to suspend the anti-dumping investigation on
             hot rolled imports from Russia. This agreement, if approved, allows
             the annual import of 750,000 metric tons of hot rolled steel
             product from Russia at a minimum price ranging from $255 to $280
             FOB per metric ton. U. S. Steel is opposed to this agreement and is
             reviewing all available remedies to challenge this agreement. U. S.
             Steel will pursue the hot rolled import case against Russia to
             obtain the issuance of final determinations by Commerce and the
             ITC. The preliminary injury determination and the preliminary anti-
             dumping and countervailing duty margin determinations are subject
             to further investigation by the ITC and Commerce. It is presently
             expected that Commerce will issue its final anti-dumping and
             countervailing duty margin determinations on April 28, 1999 and the
             ITC will issue its final injury determination on June 2, 1999.

                                                                            S-33

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                In addition to announcing the preliminary anti-dumping duty
             margins on hot rolled imports from Russia and the proposed
             suspension agreement on those imports, Commerce also announced on
             February 22, 1999 that it had initialed an agreement with Russia to
             restrict imports of major steel products, other than hot rolled and
             cut-to-length plate, from Russia. U. S. Steel is opposed to this
             agreement.

                Plate products accounted for 10%, 8% and 9% of U. S. Steel Group
             shipments in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. On November 5,
             1996, two other domestic steel plate producers filed anti-dumping
             cases with Commerce and the ITC asserting that People's Republic of
             China, the Russia Federation, Ukraine, and South Africa have
             engaged in unfair trade practices with respect to the export of
             carbon cut-to-length plate to the United States. U. S. Steel Group
             has supported these cases. Commerce issued final affirmative
             determination of dumping for each country in October 1997, finding
             substantial dumping margins on cut-to-length steel plate imports
             from those countries. In December 1997, the ITC voted unanimously
             that the United States industry producing cut-to-length carbon
             steel plate was injured due to imports of dumped cut-to-length
             plate from the four countries. The United States has negotiated
             suspension agreements that limit imports of cut-to-length carbon
             steel plate from the four countries to a total of approximately
             440,000 tons per year for the next five years, a reduction of about
             two-thirds from 1996 import levels, and provide for an average 10-
             15% increase in import prices to remove the injurious impact of the
             imports. Any violation or abrogation of the suspension agreements
             will result in imposition of the dumping duties found by Commerce.

                On February 16, 1999, U. S. Steel, along with Bethlehem Steel
             Corporation, IPSCO, Inc., Tuscaloosa Steel Company, and the USWA,
             filed trade cases against South Korea, France, Italy, Macedonia,
             India, the Czech Republic, Japan, and Indonesia, contending that
             dumped and subsidized cut-to-length plate are being imported into
             the United States from these countries.

                USX intends to file additional anti-dumping and countervailing
             duty petitions if unfairly traded imports adversely impact, or
             threaten to adversely impact, the results of the U. S. Steel Group.
             For additional information regarding levels of imported steel, see
             discussion of "Outlook for 1999" below.

                U. S. Steel Mining Company, LLC ("U. S. Steel Mining") entered
             into a five year contract with the United Mine Workers of America
             ("UMWA"), effective January 1, 1998, covering approximately 1,000
             employees. This agreement followed that of other major mining
             companies.

                The U. S. Steel Group depreciates steel assets by modifying
             straight-line depreciation based on the level of production.
             Depreciation charges for 1998, 1997, and 1996 were 93%, 102%, and
             94%, respectively, of straight-line depreciation based on
             production levels for each of the years. See Note 2 to the U. S.
             Steel Group Financial Statements.

             Outlook for 1999

                U. S. Steel expects that shipment volumes and average steel
             product prices will continue to be impacted by the effects of high
             levels of low priced steel imports and growing domestic minimill
             production capability for flat rolled products. Scrap prices are
             currently at low levels and provide minimills a cost advantage. In
             recent years, demand for steel in the United States has been at
             high levels. Any weakness in the U.S. economy for capital goods or
             consumer durables could adversely impact U. S. Steel Group's
             product prices and shipment levels.

S-34

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                On August 1, 1999, U. S. Steel, along with several major steel
             competitors, faces the expiration of the labor agreement with the
             USWA. U. S. Steel's ability to negotiate an acceptable labor
             contract is essential to ongoing operations. Any labor
             interruptions could have an adverse effect on operations, financial
             results and cash flow.

                Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated
             30%, 24% and 23% of the domestic steel market for the years 1998,
             1997 and 1996, respectively. In November 1998, steel imports
             accounted for an estimated 37% of the domestic steel market. Steel
             imports of hot rolled and cold rolled steel increased 42% in 1998,
             compared to 1997. Steel imports of plates increased 75% in 1998,
             compared to 1997.

                The preceding statements concerning anticipated steel demand,
             steel pricing,  and shipment levels are forward-looking and are
             based upon assumptions as to future product prices and mix, and
             levels of steel production capability, production and shipments.
             These forward-looking statements can be affected by imports,
             domestic and international economies, domestic production capacity,
             and customer demand. In the event these assumptions prove to be
             inaccurate, actual results may differ significantly from those
             presently anticipated.

             Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

                A multi-functional Year 2000 task force continues to execute a
             preparedness plan which addresses readiness requirements for
             business computer systems, technical infrastructure, end-user
             computing, third parties, manufacturing, environmental operations,
             systems products produced and sold, and dedicated R&D test
             facilities. The U. S. Steel Group is executing a Year 2000
             readiness plan which includes:

             . prioritizing and focusing on those computerized and automated
             systems and processes critical to the operations in terms of
             material safety, operational, environmental, quality and financial
             risk to the company.

             . allocating and committing appropriate resources to fix the
             problem.

             . communicating with, and aggressively pursuing, critical third
             parties to help ensure the Year 2000 readiness of their products
             and services through use of mailings, telephone contacts, on-site
             assessments and the inclusion of Year 2000 readiness language in
             purchase orders and contracts.

             . performing rigorous Year 2000 tests of critical systems.

             . participating in, and exchanging Year 2000 information with
             industry trade associations, such as the American Iron & Steel
             Institute, Association of Iron & Steel Engineers and the Steel
             Industry Systems Association.

             . engaging qualified outside engineering and information technology
             consulting firms to assist in the Year 2000 impact assessment and
             readiness effort.

             State of Readiness

                The U. S. Steel Group's progress on achieving Year 2000
             readiness is currently on pace with our objectives. Certain
             systems/processes are to be replaced and/or upgraded with third-
             party Year 2000 ready products and services. All systems and
             processes are targeted to be Year 2000 ready, including integration
             testing, by the end of the third quarter, 1999. This schedule may
             be impacted by the availability of information and services from
             third-party suppliers/vendors on the Year 2000 readiness

                                                                            S-35

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

             of their products and services. Generally, efforts in 1999 will be
             primarily devoted to both Year 2000 systems and integration
             testing, tracking of the readiness of third parties, developing
             contingency plans and verifying the state of Year 2000 readiness.

                The following chart provides the percent of completion for the
             inventory of systems and processes that may be affected by the year
             2000 ("Y2K Inventory"), the analysis performed to determine the
             Year 2000 date impact on inventoried systems and processes ("Y2K
             Impact Assessment") and the year 2000 readiness of the U. S. Steel
             Group`s year 2000 inventory ("Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory").
             The percent of completion for Y2K Readiness of Overall Inventory
             includes all inventory items not date impacted, those items already
             Year 2000 ready and those corrected and made Year 2000 ready
             through the renovation/replacement, testing and implementation
             activities.
             

             Third Parties

                The U. S. Steel Group continues to review its third party
             (including, but not limited to outside processors, process control
             systems and hardware suppliers, telecommunication providers, and
             transportation carriers) relationships to determine those critical
             to its operations. The majority of contacts have been made with
             critical third parties to determine if they will be able to provide
             their product and service to the U. S. Steel Group after the Year
             2000. An aggressive follow-up process with those third parties not
             responding or returning an unacceptable response is underway.
             Communications with U. S. Steel Group's third parties is an on-
             going process which includes mailings, telephone contacts and on-
             site visits. If it is determined that there is a significant risk
             with the third parties, an effort will be made to work with the
             third parties to resolve the issue, or a new provider of the same
             products or services will be investigated and secured. As of
             December 31, 1998, the U. S. Steel Group has sent out approximately
             700 inquiries and received over 600 responses.

             The Costs to Address Year 2000 Issues

                The current estimated cost associated with Year 2000 readiness,
             is approximately $29 million, which includes $16 million in
             incremental cost. Total costs incurred as of January 31, 1999, were
             $14 million, including $6 million of incremental costs. As Y2K
             Impact Assessment nears completion and the renovation planning,
             readiness implementation and testing evolve, the estimated costs
             may change.

             Year 2000 Risks to the Company

                The most reasonably likely worst case Year 2000 scenario would
             be the inability of third party suppliers, such as utility
             providers, telecommunication companies, outside processors, and
             other critical suppliers, to continue providing their products and
             services. This could pose the greatest material safety,
             operational, environmental, quality and/or financial risk to the
             company.

S-36

 
             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Income CONTINUED

                In addition, the lack of accurate and timely Year 2000 date
             impact information from suppliers of automation and process control
             systems and processes is a concern to the U. S. Steel Group.
             Without timely and quality information from suppliers, specifically
             on embedded chip technology, schedules for attaining readiness can
             be impacted and some Year 2000 problems could go undetected during
             the transition to the year 2000.

             Contingency Planning

                General guidelines have been issued to all business units for
             creating contingency plans to address those critical facets of
             operations that can cause a material safety, operational,
             environmental, or financial risk to the company. Representatives of
             the U. S. Steel Group are working with the Association of Iron &
             Steel Engineers and the American Iron & Steel Institute to develop
             contingency planning guidelines to address issues specific to the
             steel industry. These guidelines are intended to help entities
             develop specific contingency plans that will cover their associated
             Year 2000 risks and areas of concern. The U. S. Steel Group
             currently expects to have contingency  plans completed and tested,
             when practical, by the middle of 1999.

                This discussion includes forward-looking statements of the U. S.
             Steel Group's efforts and management's expectations relating to
             Year 2000 readiness. The Steel Group's ability to achieve Year 2000
             readiness and the level of incremental costs associated therewith,
             could be adversely impacted by, among other things, the
             availability and cost of programming and testing resources,
             vendors' ability to install or modify proprietary hardware and
             software and unanticipated problems identified in the ongoing Year
             2000 readiness review. Also, the U. S. Steel Group's ability to
             mitigate Year 2000 risks could be adversely impacted by the ability
             to complete, and the effectiveness of, contingency plans.

             Accounting Standards

                In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public
             Accountants issued its Statement of Position No. 98-1, "Accounting
             for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for
             Internal Use" ("SOP 98-1"). SOP 98-1 provides guidelines for
             companies to capitalize or expense costs incurred to develop or
             obtain internal-use software. Effective January 1, 1999, USX
             adopted SOP 98-1. The incremental impact on results of operations
             of adoption of SOP 98-1 is likely to be initially favorable since
             certain qualifying costs will be capitalized and amortized over
             future periods.

                In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
             Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting
             for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". This new
             standard requires recognition of all derivatives as either assets
             or liabilities at fair value. This new standard may result in
             additional volatility in both current period earnings and other
             comprehensive income as a result of recording recognized and
             unrecognized gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair
             value of derivative instruments. At adoption this new standard
             requires a comprehensive review of all outstanding derivative
             instruments to determine whether or not their use meets the hedge
             accounting criteria. It is possible that there will be derivative
             instruments employed in our businesses that do not meet all of the
             designated hedge criteria and they will be reflected in income on a
             mark-to-market basis. Based upon the strategies currently used by
             USX and the level of activity related to forward exchange contracts
             and commodity-based derivative instruments in recent periods, USX
             does not anticipate the effect of adoption to have a material
             impact on either financial position or results of operations for
             the U. S. Steel Group. USX plans to adopt the standard effective
             January 1, 2000, as required.

                                                                            S-37

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

             Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments

                USX employs a strategic approach of limiting its use of
             derivative instruments principally to hedging activities, whereby
             gains and losses are generally offset by price changes in the
             underlying commodity. Based on this approach, combined with risk
             assessment procedures and internal controls, management believes
             that its use of derivative instruments does not expose the U. S.
             Steel Group to material risk; however, the U. S. Steel Group's use
             of derivative instruments for hedging activities could materially
             affect the U. S. Steel Group's results of operations in particular
             quarterly or annual periods. This is primarily because use of such
             instruments may limit the company's ability to benefit from
             favorable price movements. However, management believes that use of
             these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on
             financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting
             policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 2 to the U. S.
             Steel Group Financial Statements.

             Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks

                In the normal course of its business, the U. S. Steel Group is
             exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the
             production and sale of steel products. To a lesser extent, the U.
             S. Steel Group is exposed to price risk related to the purchase,
             production or sale of coal and coke and the purchase of natural
             gas, steel scrap and certain nonferrous metals used as raw
             materials. The U. S. Steel Group is also exposed to effects of
             price fluctuations on the value of its raw material and steel
             product inventories.

                The U. S. Steel Group's market risk strategy has generally been
             to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and
             allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated
             by supply and demand. However, the U. S. Steel Group uses
             derivative commodity instruments (primarily over-the-counter
             commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase
             price of natural gas, heating oil and certain nonferrous metals.
             The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation
             to the U. S. Steel Group's overall business activity.

                Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pretax income
             of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in commodity prices for open
             derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 1998, are
             provided in the following table/(a)/: 
 

             /(a)/ Gains and losses on derivative commodity instruments are
                   generally offset by price changes in the underlying
                   commodity. Effects of these offsets are not reflected in the
                   sensitivity analyses. Amounts reflect the estimated
                   incremental effect on pretax income of hypothetical 10% and
                   25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open
                   contract position at December 31, 1998. U. S. Steel Group
                   management evaluates its portfolio of derivative commodity
                   instruments on an ongoing basis and adds or revises
                   strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions and
                   changes in risk profiles. Changes to the portfolio subsequent
                   to December 31, 1998, would cause future pretax income
                   effects to differ from those presented in the table.
 
                                                                            S-38

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk CONTINUED

                While these derivative commodity instruments are generally used
             to reduce risks from unfavorable commodity price movements, they
             also may limit the opportunity to benefit from favorable movements.
             The U. S. Steel Group recorded net pretax hedging losses of $6
             million in 1998, compared with net gains of $5 million in 1997, and
             net gains of $21 million in 1996. These gains and losses were
             offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged
             commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to
             derivative commodity instruments, including aggregate contract
             values and fair values, where appropriate, see Note 25 to the U. S.
             Steel Group Financial Statements.

             Interest Rate Risk

                USX is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on
             certain of its non-derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity
             analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10%
             decrease in year-end 1998 interest rates on the fair value of the
             U. S. Steel Group's specifically attributed non-derivative
             financial instruments and the U. S. Steel Group's portion of USX's
             non-derivative financial instruments attributed to both groups, is
             provided in the following table:
 

             /(a)/ Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
                   notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest,
                   approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to
                   changes in interest rates due to the short-term maturity of
                   the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded
                   from the table.
             /(b)/ See Note 26 to the U. S. Steel Group Financial Statements.
             /(c)/ Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated
                   incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest
                   rates at December 31, 1998, on the fair value of
                   non-derivative financial instruments. For financial
                   liabilities, this assumes a 10% decrease in the weighted
                   average yield to maturity of USX's long-term debt at December
                   31, 1998.
             /(d)/ For additional information, see Note 16 to the U. S. Steel
                   Group Financial Statements.
             /(e)/ Fair value was based on market prices where available, or
                   current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and
                   maturities. For additional information, see Note 11 to the U.
                   S. Steel Group Financial Statements.
             /(f)/ See Note 25 to the USX Consolidated Financial Statements.

                At December 31, 1998, USX's portfolio of long-term debt was
             comprised primarily of fixed-rate instruments. Therefore, the fair
             value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of
             interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the
             $13 million increase in the fair value of long-term debt assuming a
             hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. However, USX's
             sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases
             in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect
             USX's results and cash flows only to the extent that USX elected to
             repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed-rate
             debt portfolio at prices above carrying value.
 
                                                                            S-39

 
             Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
             About Market Risk CONTINUED
 
             Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

                At December 31, 1998, the U. S. Steel Group had no material
             exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk.

             Equity Price Risk

                The U. S. Steel Group is subject to equity price risk resulting
             from USX's issuance in December 1996 of $117 million of 6-3/4%
             Exchangeable Notes Due February 1, 2000 ("Indexed Debt"). At
             maturity, USX must exchange the notes for shares of RTI
             International Metals, Inc. (formerly RMI Titanium Company) ("RTI")
             common stock, or redeem the notes for the equivalent amount of
             cash. Each quarter, USX adjusts the carrying value of Indexed Debt
             to settlement value, based on changes in the value of RTI common
             stock. Any resulting adjustment is charged or credited to income
             and included in interest and other financial costs. During 1998,
             USX recorded a favorable adjustment of $44 million. At year-end
             1998, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of RTI common stock
             would have resulted in a $7 million unfavorable effect on pretax
             income. USX holds a 26% interest in RTI which is accounted for
             under the equity method. At December 31, 1998, USX's investment in
             RTI common stock had a fair market value of $77 million and USX's
             carrying value of the Indexed Debt was $69 million. The unfavorable
             effects on income described above would generally be offset by
             changes in the market value of USX's investment in RTI. However,
             under the equity method of accounting, USX cannot recognize in
             income these changes in the market value until the investment is
             liquidated. The entire effect of adjustments to the carrying value
             of Indexed Debt is reflected in the U. S. Steel Group Financial
             Statements.

             Safe Harbor

                The U. S. Steel Group's quantitative and qualitative disclosures
             about market risk include forward-looking statements with respect
             to management's opinion about risks associated with the U. S. Steel
             Group's use of derivative instruments. These statements are based
             on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry
             supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials.
             To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future
             outcomes with respect to U. S. Steel Group's hedging programs may
             differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking
             statements.



S-40

 
                                    PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information concerning the directors of USX required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the material appearing under the heading "Election
of Directors" in USX's Proxy Statement dated March 8, 1999, for the 1999 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

     The executive officers of USX or its subsidiaries and their ages as of
February 1, 1999, are as follows:



     All of the executive officers have held responsible management or
professional positions with USX or its subsidiaries for more than the past five
years.


 
Item 11.  MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
material appearing under the heading "Executive Compensation and Other
Information" in USX's Proxy Statement dated March 8, 1999, for the 1999 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.


Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
material appearing under the headings, "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners" and "Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" in USX's
Proxy Statement dated March 8, 1999, for the 1999 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.


Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
material appearing under the heading "Transactions" in USX's Proxy Statement
dated March 8, 1999, for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


 
                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
    A.    Documents Filed as Part of the Report
    1.    Financial Statements
          Financial Statements filed as part of this report are listed on the
          Index to Financial Statements, Supplementary Data, Management's
          Discussion and Analysis, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
          About Market Risk of USX Consolidated, the Marathon Group and the U.
          S. Steel Group, immediately preceding pages U-1, M-1 and S-1,
          respectively.

    2.    Financial Statement Schedules and Supplementary Data 
             Financial Statement Schedules are omitted because they are not
             applicable or the required information is contained in the
             applicable financial statements or notes thereto.

             Supplementary Data -
               Summarized Financial Information of Marathon Oil Company is
               provided on page 60.
               Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements are provided
               beginning on page 61.

    B.    Reports on Form 8-K

             Form 8-K dated November 5, 1998, reporting under Item 5. Other
             Events, the announcement of third quarter 1998 earnings and filing
             the related press releases.

             Form 8-K dated January 22, 1999, reporting under Item 5. Other
             Events, the announcement of fourth quarter and 1998 earnings and
             filing the related press releases.

             Form 8-K/A dated January 22, 1999, reporting under Item 5. Other
             Events, the announcement of fourth quarter and 1998 earnings and
             filing the related press releases in substantially the form as
             released, which superseded USX Corporation's earlier filing of such
             announcements.

             Form 8-K dated January 26, 1999, reporting under Item 5. Other
             Events, the announcement of the USX- Marathon Group 1999 capital,
             investment and exploration budget and filing the related press
             release. Also, under Item 5. Other Events, USX Corporation filed
             revised calculations of the computation of ratio of earnings to
             combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends and the
             computation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges for each of
             the year-to-date periods ended March 31, June 30, and September 30,
             1998.

             Form 8-K dated January 27, 1999, reporting under Item 5. Other
             Events, an Underwriting Agreement in connection with the issuance
             of 6.65% Notes Due 2006 pursuant to a shelf registration on Form S-
             3, File No. 333-56867.

    C.    Exhibits

Exhibit No.

    2.   Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement
         Liquidation or Succession
           Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement.......Incorporated by reference to
                                                   Exhibit 2 to the USX 
                                                   Form 8-K dated 
                                                   October 22, 1997.


 
3.   Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws
     (a)  USX Restated Certificate of
          Incorporation dated September 1, 1996.....Incorporated by reference to
                                                    Exhibit 3.1 to the USX
                                                    Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                                    quarter ended March 31,
                                                    1997.

     (b)  USX By-Laws, effective
          as of July 30, 1996.......................Incorporated by reference 
                                                    to Exhibit 3(a) to the USX
                                                    Report on Form 10-Q for the
                                                    quarter ended June 30, 1996.

     (c)  Amendment to USX By-Laws adopted by
          the Board of Directors on 
          February 23, 1999.........................

4.   Instruments Defining the Rights of Security
     Holders, Including Indentures
     (a)  Credit Agreement dated as of
          August 18, 1994, as amended by an Amended
          and Restated Credit Agreement dated
          August 7, 1996.............................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 4(a) to USX
                                                     Reports on Form 10-Q for
                                                     the quarters ended
                                                     September 30, 1994, and
                                                     June 30, 1996.

     (b)  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement......Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Form 8 Amendment to 
                                                     Form 8-A filed on 
                                                     October 5, 1992.

     (c)  Pursuant to 17 CFR 229.601(b)(4)(iii), 
          instruments with respect to long-term debt 
          issues have been omitted where the amount 
          of securities authorized under such 
          instruments does not exceed 10% of the 
          total consolidated assets of USX. USX 
          hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any 
          such instrument to the Commission upon
          its request.

10.  Material Contracts

     (a)  USX 1986 Stock Option Incentive Plan, As
          Amended May 28, 1991.......................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 10(b) to the USX
                                                     Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1991.

     (b)  USX 1990 Stock Plan, As
          Amended April 28, 1998.....................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Annex II to the USX
                                                     Proxy Statement dated March
                                                     9, 1998.

     (c)  USX Annual Incentive Compensation
          Plan, As Amended March 26, 1991............Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 10(d) to the USX
                                                     Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1991.


 
     (d)  USX Senior Executive Officer Annual
          Incentive Compensation Plan, As Amended
          April 28, 1998.............................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Annex I to the USX Proxy
                                                     Statement dated March 9,
                                                     1998.

     (e)  Marathon Oil Company Annual Incentive
          Compensation Plan..........................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 10(e) to the USX
                                                     Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1992.

     (f)  USX Executive Management
          Supplemental Pension Program, As Amended
          October 27, 1998...........................

     (g)  USX Supplemental Thrift Program, As Amended
          November 1, 1994...........................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 10(h) to the USX
                                                     Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1994.
     (h)  Limited Liability Company Agreement
          of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
          dated January 1, 1998......................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 10.1 of USX Form
                                                     8-K dated January 1, 1998.

     (i)  Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill
          Agreement of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
          dated January 1, 1998......................Incorporated by reference
                                                     to Exhibit 10.2 of USX Form
                                                     8-K dated January 1, 1998.

     (j)  Form of agreements Between the Corporation
          and Various Officers.......................Incorporated by reference 
                                                     to Exhibit 10(h) to the USX
                                                     Form 10-K for the year
                                                     ended December 31, 1995.
     (k)  USX Deferred Compensation Plan
          For Non-Employee Directors
          effective January 1, 1997..................Incorporated by reference
                                                     to Exhibit 10 (K) to the
                                                     USX Form 10-K for the years
                                                     ended December 31, 1996.

   12.1  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges
         and Preferred Stock Dividends

   12.2  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

   21.   List of Significant Subsidiaries

   23.   Consent of Independent Accountants

   27.   Financial Data Schedule


 
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacity indicated on March 8, 1999.

                                USX CORPORATION

                  By  /s/  Kenneth L. Matheny
                      ------------------------------
                               Kenneth L. Matheny
                          Vice President & Comptroller



 
                       Glossary of Certain Defined Terms

The following definitions apply to terms used in this document:

Arnold...................Ewing Bank Block 963
bcf......................billion cubic feet
BOE......................barrels of oil equivalent
bpd......................barrels per day
CAA......................Clean Air Act, as amended by the 1990 Amendments
Carnegie.................Carnegie Natural Gas Company
CERCLA...................Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
                          Liability Act
CIPCO....................Carnegie Interstate Pipeline Company
Clairton Partnership.....Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P.
CLAM.....................CLAM Petroleum B.V.
CWA......................Clean Water Act
DD&A.....................depreciation, depletion and amortization
Delhi Companies..........Delhi Gas Pipeline Company and other subsidiaries of
                         USX that comprised all of the Delhi Group
Delhi Stock..............USX-Delhi Group Common Stock
DESCO....................Double Eagle Steel Coating Company
DOE......................Department of Energy
DOJ......................U.S. Department of Justice
downstream...............refining, marketing and transportation operations
exploratory..............wildcat and delineation, i.e., exploratory wells
IMV......................Inventory Market Valuation
Indexed Debt.............6-3/4% Exchangeable Notes Due February 1, 2000
Kobe.....................Kobe Steel Ltd.
LNG......................liquefied natural gas
MACT.....................Maximum Achievable Control Technology
MAP......................Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
Marathon.................Marathon Oil Company
Marathon Power...........Marathon Power Company, Ltd.
Marathon Stock...........USX-Marathon Group Common Stock
mcf......................thousand cubic feet
MCL......................Marathon Canada Limited
Minntac..................U.S. Steel's iron ore operations at Mt. Iron, Minn.
MIPS.....................8-3/4% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Stock
mmcfd....................million cubic feet per day
NOV......................Notice of Violation
Oyster...................Ewing Bank Block 917
P-A......................Piltun-Astokhskoye
PaDER....................Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources
Petronius................Viosca Knoll Block 786
POSCO....................Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd.
PRO-TEC..................PRO-TEC Coating Company, a USX and Kobe
                           joint venture.
PRP......................potentially responsible party
RCRA.....................Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RFI......................RCRA Facility Investigation
RI/FS....................Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study
RM&T.....................refining, marketing and transportation
RTI......................RTI International Metals, Inc. (formerly RMI Titanium
                           Company)
SAGE.....................Scottish Area Gas Evacuation
Sakhalin Energy..........Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd.
SG&A.....................selling, general and administrative
SSA......................Speedway SuperAmerica LLC
Steel Stock..............USX-U. S. Steel Group Common Stock
Tarragon.................Tarragon Oil and Gas Limited
Trust Preferred
  Securities.............6.75% Convertible Quarterly Income
                           Preferred Securities of USX
                           Capital Trust I
upstream.................exploration and production operations
USS-POSCO................USS-POSCO Industries, USX and Pohang Iron & Steel
                           Co., Ltd., joint venture.
USS/Kobe.................USX and Kobe Steel Ltd. joint venture.
USTs.....................underground storage tanks
VSZ U. S. Steel s. r.o...U.S. Steel and VSZ a.s. joint venture in Kosice,
                          Slovakia


 
Supplementary Data
Summarized Financial Information of Marathon Oil Company

     Included below is the summarized financial information of Marathon Oil
Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of USX Corporation.

 



(a)  Consists of sales, dividend and affiliate income, gain on ownership change
     in MAP, net gains on disposal of assets and other income.
(b)  Amounts in 1998 include 100% of MAP and are not comparable to prior
     periods.


 
Supplementary Data
Disclosures About Forward-Looking Statements

     USX includes forward-looking statements concerning trends, market forces,
commitments, material events or other contingencies potentially affecting USX or
the businesses of its Marathon Group or U. S. Steel Group in reports filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, external documents or oral
presentations. In order to take advantage of "safe harbor" provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, USX is filing the following
cautionary language identifying important factors (though not necessarily all
such factors) that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from
information set forth in forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of,
USX, its representatives and its individual Groups.

Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

USX

     Forward-looking statements with respect to USX may include, but are not
limited to, comments about general business strategies, financing decisions or
corporate structure. The following discussion is intended to identify important
factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future
outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward-looking
statements.

Liquidity Factors

     USX's ability to finance its future business requirements through
internally generated funds, proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings and
other external financing sources is affected by the performance of each of its
Groups (as measured by various factors, including cash provided from operating
activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor
perceptions and expectations of past and future performance and actions, the
overall U.S. financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings,
by USX's outstanding debt and credit ratings by investor services. To the extent
that USX Management's assumptions concerning these factors prove to be
inaccurate, USX's liquidity position could be materially adversely affected.

Other Factors

     Holders of USX-Marathon Group Common Stock or USX-U. S. Steel Group Common
Stock are holders of common stock of USX and are subject to all the risks
associated with an investment in USX and all of its businesses and liabilities.
Financial impacts, arising from either of the groups, which affect the overall
cost of USX's capital could affect the results of operations and financial
condition of all groups.

     For further discussion of certain of the factors described herein, see Item
1. Business, Item 5. Market For Registrant's Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Information About Market Risk.

USX-Marathon Group

     Forward-looking statements with respect to the Marathon Group may include,
but are not limited to, levels of revenues, gross margins, income from
operations, net income or earnings per share; levels of capital, exploration,
environmental or maintenance expenditures; the success or timing of completion
of ongoing or anticipated capital, exploration or maintenance projects; volumes
of production, sales, throughput or shipments of liquid hydrocarbons, natural
gas and refined products; levels of worldwide prices of liquid hydrocarbons,
natural gas and refined products; levels of reserves, proved or otherwise, of
liquid hydrocarbons or natural gas; the acquisition or divestiture of assets;
the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the
potential effect of judicial proceedings on the business and financial
condition; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as
competitors, or federal, state or local regulatory authorities.


 
     Forward-looking statements typically contain words such as "anticipates",
"believes", "estimates", "expects", "forecasts", "predicts" or "projects" or
variations of these words, suggesting that future outcomes are uncertain. The
following discussion is intended to identify important factors (though not
necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ
materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements with respect to
the Marathon Group.

     The oil and gas industry is characterized by a large number of companies,
none of which is dominant within the industry, but a number of which have
greater resources than Marathon. Marathon must compete with these companies for
the rights to explore for oil and gas. Marathon's expectations as to revenues,
margins and income are based upon assumptions as to future prices and volumes of
liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and refined products. Prices have historically
been volatile and have frequently been driven by unpredictable changes in supply
and demand resulting from fluctuations in economic activity and political
developments in the world's major oil and gas producing areas, including OPEC
member countries. Any substantial decline in such prices could have a material
adverse effect on Marathon's results of operations. A decline in such prices
could also adversely affect the quantity of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas
that can be economically produced and the amount of capital available for
exploration and development.

     The Marathon Group uses commodity-based derivative instruments such as
exchange-traded futures contracts and options and over-the-counter commodity
swaps and options to manage exposure to market price risk. The Marathon Group's
strategic approach is to limit the use of these instruments principally to
hedging activities. Accordingly, gains and losses on futures contracts and swaps
generally offset the effects of price changes in the underlying commodity. While
commodity-based derivative instruments are generally used to reduce risks from
unfavorable commodity price movements, they also may limit the opportunity to
benefit from favorable movements. Levels of hedging activity vary among oil
industry competitors and could affect the Marathon Group's competitive position
with respect to those competitors.

Factors Affecting Exploration and Production Operations

     Projected production levels for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are
based on a number of assumptions, including (among others) prices, supply and
demand, regulatory constraints, reserve estimates, production decline rates for
mature fields, reserve replacement rates, drilling rig availability and
geological and operating considerations. These assumptions may prove to be
inaccurate. Exploration and production operations are subject to various
hazards, including explosions, fires and uncontrollable flows of oil and gas.
Offshore production and marine operations in areas such as the Gulf of Mexico,
the North Sea, Gabon and the Russian Far East Region are also subject to severe
weather conditions such as hurricanes or violent storms or other hazards.
Development of new production properties in countries outside the United States
may require protracted negotiations with host governments and are frequently
subject to political considerations, such as tax regulations, which could
adversely affect the economics of projects.

Factors Affecting Refining, Marketing and Transportation Operations

     Marathon conducts domestic refining, marketing and transportation
operations primarily through its consolidated subsidiary, Marathon Ashland
Petroleum LLC ("MAP"). MAP's operations are conducted mainly in the Midwest,
Southeast, Ohio River Valley and the upper Great Plains. The profitability of
these operations depends largely on the margin between the cost of crude oil and
other feedstocks refined and the selling prices of refined products. MAP is a
purchaser of crude oil in order to satisfy its refinery throughput requirements.
As a result, its overall profitability could be adversely affected by rising
crude oil and other feedstock prices which are not recovered in the marketplace.
Refined product margins have been historically volatile and vary with the level
of economic activity in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate and
the available supply of refined products. Gross margins on merchandise sold at
retail outlets tend to moderate the volatility experienced in the retail sale of
gasoline and diesel fuel. Environmental regulations, particularly the 1990
Amendments to the Clean Air Act, have imposed (and are expected to continue to
impose) increasingly stringent and costly requirements on refining and marketing
operations which may have an adverse effect on margins. Refining, marketing and
transportation operations are subject to business interruptions due to
unforeseen events such as explosions, fires,


 
crude oil or refined product spills, inclement weather, or labor disputes.  They
are also subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as
capsizing, collision and damage or loss from severe weather conditions.

Technology Factors

     Longer-term projections of corporate strategy, including the viability,
timing or expenditures required for capital projects, can be affected by changes
in technology, especially innovations in processes used in the exploration,
production or refining of hydrocarbons. While specific future changes are
difficult to project, recent innovations affecting the oil industry include the
development of three-dimensional seismic imaging and deep-water and horizontal
drilling capabilities.

Other Factors

     Holders of USX-Marathon Group Common Stock are holders of common stock of
USX and are subject to all the risks associated with an investment in USX and
all of its businesses and liabilities. Financial impacts, arising from either of
the groups, which affect the overall cost of USX's capital could affect the
results of operations and financial condition of both groups.

     For further discussion of certain of the factors described herein, and
their potential effects on the businesses of the Marathon Group, see Item 1.
Business, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.

USX-U. S. Steel Group

     Forward-looking statements with respect to the U. S. Steel Group may
include, but are not limited to, projections of levels of revenues, income from
operations or income from operations per ton, net income or earnings per share;
levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures; the success or
timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects;
levels of raw steel production capability, prices, production, shipments, or
labor and raw material costs; the acquisition, idling, shutdown or divestiture
of assets or businesses; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of
business components; the effect of potential judicial proceedings on the
business and financial condition; and the effects of actions of third parties
such as competitors, or federal, state or local regulatory authorities.

     Forward-looking statements typically contain words such as "anticipates",
"believes", "estimates", "expects", "forecasts", "predicts" or "projects", or
variations of these words, suggesting that future outcomes are uncertain. The
following discussion is intended to identify important factors (though not
necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ
materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements with respect to
the U. S. Steel Group.

Market Factors

     The U. S. Steel Group's expectations as to levels of production and
revenues, gross margins, income from operations and income from operations per
ton are based upon assumptions as to future product prices and mix, and levels
of raw steel production capability, production and shipments. These assumptions
may prove to be inaccurate.

     The steel industry is characterized by excess world supply which has
restricted the ability of U. S. Steel and the industry to raise prices during
periods of economic growth and resist price decreases during economic
contraction. Over the next several years, construction of additional flat-rolled
steel production facilities could result in increased domestic capacity of up to
three million tons over 1998 levels.

     Several of the additional facilities are minimills which are less expensive
to build than integrated facilities, and are typically staffed by non-unionized
work forces with lower base labor costs and more flexible work


 
rules. Through the use of thin slab casting technology, minimill competitors are
increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers of higher value-
added products. Such competition could adversely affect the U. S. Steel Group's
future product prices and shipment levels.

     The domestic steel industry has, in the past, been adversely affected by
unfairly traded imports. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an
estimated 30%, 24% and 23% of the domestic steel market in the first eleven
months of 1998, and for the years 1997 and 1996, respectively. Foreign
competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or
subsidized by their governments, allowing their production and pricing decisions
to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as
prevailing market conditions. Increases in levels of imported steel could
adversely affect future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel.

     The U. S. Steel Group also competes in many markets with producers of
substitutes for steel products, including aluminum, cement, composites, glass,
plastics and wood. The emergence of additional substitutes for steel products
could adversely affect future prices and demand for steel products.

     The businesses of the U. S. Steel Group are aligned with cyclical
industries such as the automotive, appliance, containers, construction and
energy industries. As a result, future downturns in the U.S. economy could
adversely affect the profitability of the U. S. Steel Group.

Operating and Cost Factors

     The operations of the U. S. Steel Group are subject to planned and
unplanned outages due to maintenance, equipment malfunctions or work stoppages;
and various hazards, including explosions, fires and severe weather conditions,
which could disrupt operations or the availability of raw materials, resulting
in reduced production volumes and increased production costs.

     Labor costs for the U. S. Steel Group are affected by collective bargaining
agreements. U. S. Steel entered into a five and one-half year contract with the
United Steel Workers of America, effective February 1, 1994, covering
approximately 15,000 employees. The contract provided for reopener negotiations
of specific payroll items. These negotiations were resolved by following the
settlements reached by other major integrated producers (including the timing of
a final lump-sum bonus payment in July 1999), with revised contract terms
becoming effective as of February 1, 1997. This agreement expires on August 1,
1999. To the extent that increased costs associated with any renegotiated issues
are not recoverable through the sales prices of products, future income from
operations would be adversely affected. Any labor interruptions resulting from
the expiration of this agreement would have an adverse effect on operations,
financial results and cash flow.

     Income from operations for the U. S. Steel Group includes periodic pension
credits (which are primarily noncash) which are not allocated to the operating
segment and pension costs which are included in segment income for U. S. Steel
operations. The resulting net pension credits totaled $186 million, $144 million
and $158 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Future net pension
credits can be volatile dependent upon the future marketplace performance of
plan assets, changes in actuarial assumptions regarding such factors as a
selection of a discount rate and rate of return on assets, changes in the
amortization levels of transition amounts or prior period service costs, plan
amendments affecting benefit payout levels and profile changes in the
beneficiary populations being valued. Changes in any of these factors could
cause net pension credits to change.  To the extent that these credits decline
in the future, income from operations would be adversely affected.

     The U. S. Steel Group provides health care and life insurance benefits to
most employees upon retirement. Most of these benefits have not been prefunded.
The accrued liability for such benefits as of December 31, 1998, was $2,133
million. To the extent that competitors do not provide similar benefits, or have
been relieved of obligations to provide such benefits following bankruptcy
reorganization, the competitive position of the U. S. Steel Group may be
adversely affected, depending on future costs of health care.


 
Legal and Environmental Factors

     The profitability of the U. S. Steel Group's operations could be affected
by a number of contingencies, including legal actions. The ultimate resolution
of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to
the U. S. Steel Group financial statements.

     The businesses of the U. S. Steel Group are subject to numerous
environmental laws. Certain current and former U. S. Steel Group operating
facilities, have been in operation for many years, and could require significant
future accruals and expenditures to meet existing and future requirements under
these laws. To the extent that competitors are not required to undertake
equivalent costs in their operations, the competitive position of the U. S.
Steel Group could be adversely affected.

Other Factors

     Holders of USX-U. S. Steel Group Common Stock are holders of common stock
of USX and are subject to all the risks associated with an investment in USX and
all of its businesses and liabilities. Financial impacts, arising from either of
the groups, which affect the overall cost of USX's capital could affect the
results of operations and financial condition of both groups.

     For further discussion of certain of the factors described herein, and
their potential effects on the businesses of the U.S. Steel Group, see Item 1.
Business, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.


