Item 1A.RISK FACTORS

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks,
including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed
below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not
presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business,
financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.

We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government.

During 2010, we derived approximately 34% of our revenues from sales to a variety of U.S.
Government entities. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain U.S. Government business is
highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances,
cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our revenues from
the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government
defense-related programs. The funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation
decisions. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements,
Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for
several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional
funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The reduction or termination of
funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a U.S. Government program in which we provide
products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues
attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
Significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the
funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of
operations and financial condition.

U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable
provisions.

The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its
convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A
termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on
our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by
the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the
expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. In addition, on those contracts for
which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could
terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our
products and services as a subcontractor. In any such event, our financial condition and results of
operations could be adversely affected.

As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.

The Department of Defense (DoD) has announced plans for significant changes to its business
practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact
our current programs and potential new awards.

Recently, the DoD has announced various initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus
priorities and enhance business practices used by the DoD, including those used to procure goods
and services from defense contractors. The most recent initiatives are








organized in five major
areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services
acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. These new initiatives are expected to impact
significantly the contracting environment in which we do business with our DoD customers, and they
could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business
opportunities. Changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether
and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so.

Cost overruns on U.S. Government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our
future business.

Under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual
costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us.
Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for
such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. Under time and materials contracts,
we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under
cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for
allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if our costs
exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable
regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of
contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our
financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may
adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.

Weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results.

As a result of the recent worldwide economic downturn, over the past several years we have
experienced weak demand for our new and used aircraft, a tightening of credit availability for
potential purchasers of our aircraft, and a substantial number of cancellations of orders and
customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. Soft demand for new and used business
jets and helicopters could persist and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new
aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. In addition, both U.S. and foreign governments and
government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional
aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions
and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels that may adversely impact demand for business jets
and/or helicopters. A prolonged weakness in the markets for our commercial aircraft products could
adversely impact our results of operations and our future prospects.

We may not be able to continue to execute the liquidation of our Finance segment’s non-captive
commercial finance business at a favorable pace and level of recovery.

Difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the quality of our Finance
segment’s finance asset portfolios, and our losses may increase if we are unable to successfully
collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral.

The financial performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other
assets in its finance asset portfolios. Portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several
factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or
industry concentrations, and the effect of the recent economic downturn on our customers’
businesses, as well as the broader deterioration of the financial markets. As a result of the
tumultuous conditions in the financial markets over the past two years, many lenders and
institutional investors have reduced, and, in some cases, ceased, to provide funding to borrowers.
These conditions have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and
defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, widespread reduction of
business activity, and bankruptcy filings. Valuations of the types of collateral securing our
timeshare and other portfolios have been and may continue to be adversely affected by increased
consumer delinquencies, the reduction in business activity and bankruptcy proceedings involving our
borrowers. Valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio,
particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased significantly over the past two years and
may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. Declining collateral values could
result in greater








delinquencies and foreclosures as customers elect to discontinue payments on loan
balances that exceed asset values. Bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or
delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral.
Our losses may increase if our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not
sufficient to recover the full
amount of our finance receivable portfolio. If these negative market conditions persist or worsen,
the Finance segment may experience further deterioration in its ability to successfully collect its
finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral, which may adversely affect our
cash flow, profitability and financial condition.

Payments required under our Support Agreement with TFC could restrict our use of capital.

During the past several years, we have made quarterly capital contributions to TFC, as required
under the terms of our Support Agreement with TFC, to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio
required by the Support Agreement and the leverage ratio required by TFC’s credit facility. A
summary of the capital contributions paid to TFC and dividends received from TFC is provided on
page 29. We will likely be required to make additional capital contributions to TFC in the future
in order to maintain this ratio. While capital contributions to TFC may not increase the aggregate
amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of Textron and TFC, such contributions could
restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. In addition, recently, from time
to time, TFC has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and is expected to require further
borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. TFC’s
need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes.

Failure to maintain credit ratings acceptable to investors may increase the cost of our funding and
may adversely affect our access to the capital markets.

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including TFC, for purposes of assigning credit
ratings. Our ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by
the strength of our credit ratings and current market conditions. Failure to maintain credit
ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which
we are able to obtain financing, as well as our access to the capital markets.

We may need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations in the future; such financing
may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all.

We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come
due. Although we currently have access to the capital markets, we may not be able to refinance our
credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is necessary at terms that are
acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or
at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on
our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets.

Our Finance segment’s ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we
manufacture, and the long-term viability and profitability of the captive finance business, is
largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. This ability and cost, in
turn, are dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. If we are
unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer
financing, it could negatively impact our Manufacturing group’s ability to generate sales, which
could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance.

We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our
products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain
circumstances. In addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global
information technology infrastructure services to third-party service providers. We depend on
these vendors, subcontractors and service providers to meet our contractual obligations to our
customers and conduct our operations.

Such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships
with our customers, result in regulatory actions and/or result in product liability claims.
Likewise, any disruption of our information technology systems or other outsourced processes or
functions could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial results.








Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties.

Our business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.

We maintain manufacturing facilities, services centers, supply centers and other facilities
worldwide, including in various emerging market countries, and we expect that our investment in
emerging market countries will continue to increase. Emerging market operations can present many
risks, including civil disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related
safety concerns, health concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, the
imposition of exchange controls and risks associated with inadequate infrastructures to deal with
natural disasters. The impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect
our business, financial condition or operating results.

We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for
international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in
connection with international programs. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with
developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and
regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement
policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, any such violation by
any of our international representatives, consultants, subcontractors or suppliers, even if
prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.

We are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results.

As a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in
which we operate. Our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires
importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting
them to more stringent import-export controls, across international borders on a regular basis.
Both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and
complexity. In addition, we could be affected by U.S. or foreign laws or regulations imposed in
response to climate change concerns. Changes in laws and regulations, or in related interpretation
and policies, and new laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business, affect how
we conduct our operations and limit our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, a
violation of U.S. and/or foreign laws by one of our








employees or business partners could subject us
or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other
adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as a government
contractor. These improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our
business.

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims.

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business,
including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government
contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product
liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and
health matters. Under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the
U.S. Government could result in our being suspended or debarred from U.S. Government contracting
for a period of time. On the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that
existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of
operations. However, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter
into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or
our results of operations in any particular period.

Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual
property rights could harm our business and our customers.

Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our
customers. Any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf
of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. In addition, we own the
rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important
to our business. The inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse
effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due
to various cyber threats.

Certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to
repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues.

As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products also are subject to the
Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to
exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain
circumstances, the CPSC could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or
more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily
do so, but within strictures recommended by the CPSC. The CPSC also can impose fines or penalties
on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. Furthermore, failure to timely notify
the CPSC of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us.
Any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly
to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. Additionally, laws regulating
certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our
products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future.

If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely
affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.

Our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on
creation of liens on assets of Textron Inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance
of existence and properties; and (iii) maintenance of a maximum debt to capital ratio (as defined
and excluding our Finance segment) of 65%. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes
also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal
manufacturing facilities and shares of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and
restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. In addition, both
the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or
substantially all of our assets may be effected only if we comply with certain provisions. Some of
these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell
assets, or effect a consolidation or merger.

Our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default
thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of
Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are
engaged in the business of a finance company, of more than $100 million. Similarly, the
supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that
would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued
default under other indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than TFC or its
subsidiaries, of more than $100 million. Therefore, Cessna Finance Export Corporation, a
subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is the borrower under the Export-Import Bank facility entered into
on July 14, 2009, and Textron Aviation Finance Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is
the borrower under the Economic Development Canada Bank (EDC) facility entered into on August 6,
2010, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for the
convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. As a result,
a failure to pay or a continued default under the Export-Import Bank facility or the EDC facility,
if the outstanding balance thereunder exceeded $100 million, could give rise to an event of default
with respect to our convertible notes.

In addition, a bankruptcy or monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our
subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated
assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also would result in an event of default under our
credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance “significant subsidiaries”
(within the meaning








of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules) also would result in an
event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes.

Our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the
indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements,
could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial
condition.

The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results.

Our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record
for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where
required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our
assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for
future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. Additionally, as part of our annual
evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic,
legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment
returns could impact our unfunded status of the plans requiring us to substantially increase our
pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders’ equity. Changes in the funded status
of these plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in the year in which they occur.
Also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our
defined benefit pension plans.

In addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. Continued
medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will
not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Moreover, Congress recently has
enacted a comprehensive healthcare law, and we are evaluating the potential impacts of this new law
on our costs. We expect that some of the requirements of this new law will increase our future
costs. Increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our
financial results of operations.

Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues.

Approximately 5,900 of our U.S. employees, or 24% of our total U.S. employees, are unionized, and
approximately 2,500 of our non-U.S. employees, or 33% of our total non-U.S. employees, are
represented by organized councils. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could
negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on
our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. In addition, the presence of unions
may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could
have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.

In addition, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions.
Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled
orders for our products. Work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could
disrupt our manufacturing processes. Any of these results could adversely affect our financial
results of operations.

Currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.

We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. We monitor and manage these exposures as an
integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase derivatives or
enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations.
Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have
substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations.

We may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures.

In some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original
equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are
contractually obligated. However, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing
pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating
and supply chain efficiencies, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected.

The levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover
write-downs or losses.

We establish reserves to cover uncollectable finance receivables and accounts receivable, excess or
obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns,
environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. These reserves are subject to adjustment
from time to time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject
to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well
as changing market conditions.

Due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from
accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by
climatic factors or by pilot or driver error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves
have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that
such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other
expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that
our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more
substantial claims. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain
insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future.








Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could
affect our profitability.

We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our
domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these
different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix
of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred
tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which
could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying
value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In
addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a
material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability.

