
10-K405
FORM 10-K, V. F. CORPORATION





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1994

                        Commission file number:   1-5256


                               -----------------

                               V. F. CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              PENNSYLVANIA                         23-1180120
     (State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. employer
     incorporation or organization)            identification no.)

                              1047 NORTH PARK ROAD
                             WYOMISSING, PA  19610
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (610) 378-1151
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                                       
                          
                                  
       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  X   NO 
                                       -----    -----








Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. /X/

As of March 1, 1995, 64,098,102 shares of Common Stock of the registrant were
outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the common shares (based on the
closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange) of the registrant
held by nonaffiliates was approximately $2.7 billion.  In addition, 2,014,427
shares of Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock of the registrant were
outstanding and convertible into 1,611,542 shares of Common Stock of the
registrant, subject to adjustment.  The trustee of the registrant's Employee
Stock Ownership Plan is the sole holder of such shares, and no trading market
exists for the Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
(Items 1 and 3 in Part I and Items 5, 6, 7 and 8 in Part II).

Portions of the Proxy Statement dated March 17, 1995 for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 18, 1995 (Item 4A in Part I and Items 10, 11,
12 and 13 in Part III).









                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

VF Corporation, through its operating subsidiaries, designs, manufactures and
markets branded apparel products primarily in four product categories:
jeanswear, knitwear, intimate apparel and children's playwear.  VF Corporation,
organized in 1899, oversees the operations of its subsidiaries, providing them
with financial and administrative resources.  Management of each operating
company is responsible for the growth and development of its business, within
guidelines established by Corporate management.  Unless the context indicates
otherwise, the term "Company" used herein means VF Corporation and its
subsidiaries.

1994 ACQUISITIONS

In January 1994, the Company acquired in separate transactions H.H. Cutler
Company ("Cutler") and Nutmeg Industries, Inc. ("Nutmeg") for an aggregate
consideration of  $506.9 million. Both companies design, manufacture and market
imprinted sports apparel under licenses granted by the four major American
professional sports leagues - - Major League Baseball, the National Basketball
Association, the National Football League and the National Hockey League.  In
addition, Cutler manufactures and markets children's playwear and sleepwear and
is one of the largest youthwear apparel licensees of Walt Disney products.
Nutmeg's products are sold primarily in department and specialty stores, and
Cutler's products are sold primarily through mass merchants.

BUSINESS GROUPS

In early 1994, the Company reorganized into five new strategic business groups
- - Jeanswear, Decorated Knitwear, Intimate Apparel, Playwear and Specialty
Apparel - - where the Company has the size, brands and opportunities to grow
on a global basis.  While the integrity of each of the operating
divisions is maintained, their management, as a member of one of the five       
business groups, is charged with the additional responsibility of  maximizing 
the skills and resources available within their business group to identify
opportunities for global growth and profit improvement, develop synergies and
participate in common projects.  Information regarding the operations, sales
and profitability of these business groups is included in pages 16, 17 and 19   
of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994 ("1994 Annual Report"), which information is incorporated
herein by reference.

     JEANSWEAR

The Jeanswear business group is comprised of the Lee and the Wrangler
divisions in the United States and Europe and the Girbaud division.  Lee
manufactures jeanswear and other casualwear sold principally under its LEE(R)
trademark.  During 1993, Lee introduced the RIDERS brand of jeans
and casualwear.  Wrangler manufactures jeanswear primarily under its
WRANGLER(R) and RUSTLER(R) trademarks. Wrangler also offers a line of shirts to
complement its jeanswear products. Lee and Wrangler offer a line of cotton
casual pants and shirts under the LEE CASUALS(R) and TIMBER CREEK BY
WRANGLER(R) brands.  The Girbaud division licenses the MARITHE & FRANCOIS
GIRBAUD(R) label in the United States to market branded fashion jeans and
casual apparel.









According to industry data, approximately 443 million pairs of jeans made of
denim, twill, corduroy and other fabrics were sold in the United States in
1994.  This same data indicates that the Company currently has the largest
combined share of this market at approximately a 30% share, with RUSTLER,
WRANGLER and LEE having the second, third and fourth largest unit shares of the
jeans market in the United States, respectively.

The Lee and the Wrangler divisions in the United States own and operate
numerous cutting, sewing and laundry facilities. Seventy-one percent of
finished garments are produced in Lee and Wrangler domestic plants and 15% in
their sewing facilities in Mexico and other Caribbean countries;  the balance
is manufactured by independent contractors.  Sixty-two percent of the Lee and
Wrangler products in Europe are produced in owned plants in the United Kingdom,
Belgium, Malta and Poland, with the balance (mostly tops) sourced from
independent contractors. During 1994, the Company acquired a majority interest
in a joint venture in China to manufacture and market LEE brand jeans. This is
the first American jeans brand to make a major move into the Chinese market.
Lee also participates in a joint venture in Spain and Portugal.  Both Lee and
Wrangler have licensed their brand names for jeanswear and related products in
foreign markets where they do not have production or sales operations.

In 1993, the Lee division repositioned its LEE brand products by marketing
solely through department and specialty stores.  The Lee division's RIDERS
brand is now sold through the mass merchant and discount store channels.  The
Wrangler division markets its WRANGLER westernwear through western specialty
stores and its other WRANGLER brand products primarily through discount stores.
The RUSTLER brand is a high quality, lower priced brand marketed to large
national discount chains. MARITHE & FRANCOIS GIRBAUD products are sold to
upscale department and specialty stores.  Sales for all divisions are generally
made directly to retailers through full-time salespersons.

In international markets, LEE and WRANGLER jeanswear and related products are
marketed to department stores and specialty shops.  Sales of MAVERICK(R)
branded jeanswear in Europe have been growing in the discount channel of
distribution.  Internationally, jeanswear products are sold through the Lee and
the Wrangler sales forces and independent sales agents.

     DECORATED KNITWEAR

The largest single component of the Decorated Knitwear business group is
Bassett-Walker, one of the nation's largest manufacturers of knitted
fleecewear.  Operations are vertically integrated and include the entire
process of converting cotton yarn into finished T-shirt and fleece garments.
Products are marketed by an in-house staff of salespersons throughout the
United States to national chain and department stores, discount stores,
wholesalers and garment screen printing operators.  In 1994, approximately
one-half of Bassett-Walker's volume was knitted fleecewear and T-shirts
marketed under the LEE and RIDERS labels.  Bassett-Walker also manufactures
products for private label customers and supplies a significant portion of the
fleece and T-shirt needs of Nutmeg and JanSport.

In January 1994, the Company substantially increased its position in imprinted
apparel with the acquisitions of Cutler and Nutmeg.  Cutler's sports apparel
division manufactures and markets children's licensed sportswear imprinted with
the names and logos of professional sports teams.









Cutler's products are distributed through mass merchandisers and discount
stores.  Nutmeg's adult licensed apparel, imprinted with professional and
college sports logos, is distributed through department, sporting goods and
athletic specialty stores.  Nutmeg also manufactures and markets apparel
imprinted with professional soccer and other sports logos in Europe.  The Major 
League Baseball and the National Hockey League strikes and significant pricing  
pressures throughout the industry adversely impacted this business group. 
Beginning in 1995, many of the products formerly bearing the NUTMEG(R) label
will be marketed under the new LEE SPORT(TM) label.  In addition, the JanSport
college division imprints and markets JANSPORT(R) branded fleeced casualwear
and T-shirts with college logos for distribution through college bookstores.

     INTIMATE APPAREL

The Intimate Apparel business group consists primarily of Vanity Fair
Mills in the United States and several intimate apparel divisions in Europe. 
The Vanity Fair division manufactures and markets bras, panties, daywear,
shapewear, robes and sleepwear products under the VANITY FAIR(R) label for
domestic department and specialty stores.  In addition, Vanity Fair
manufactures and markets bras and panties under the VASSARETTE(R) brand, which
are sold through the discount channel.  Vanity Fair also maintains a
significant private label business.  Vanity Fair sells most of its products
through its own sales force. The VANITY FAIR brand name for intimate apparel is
licensed to third parties in several foreign countries.

Over the past three years, the Company has taken decisive steps to establish a
presence in women's intimate apparel in Europe by acquiring several intimate
apparel companies and brands in France and Spain.  During 1994, these
businesses were organized into a single management structure.  With
manufacturing plants in France, Spain and Tunisia, intimate apparel is marketed
in department and specialty stores under the LOU(R), BOLERO(R) and
SILHOUETTE(TM) brand names primarily in France and under the GEMMA(R), INTIMA
CHERRY(R) and BELCOR(R) brand names primarily in Spain. Intimate apparel is
marketed in discount stores in France under the VARIANCE(R), CARINA(TM) and
SILTEX(TM) brand names.  In late 1994, the Company began rolling out the VANITY
FAIR brand across the European continent.

     PLAYWEAR

The Playwear business group consists of Healthtex, the playwear and sleepwear
divisions of Cutler and the preschool sizes of the Lee and the Wrangler
divisions.  Products marketed under the HEALTHTEX(R) label are sold primarily
to department and specialty stores.  Cutler products, generally imprinted with
characters licensed from The Walt Disney Company or others, are marketed
primarily to mass merchandise and discount stores.  LEE and WRANGLER children's
sizes are marketed in distribution channels consistent with their respective
adult sizes.  During 1995, the licensed FISHER-PRICE(R) brand will be expanded
as a joint effort of the Healthtex and Cutler divisions, and Cutler will
introduce a line of licensed NIKE(R) brand childrenswear.  Substantially all
products are manufactured in the divisions' plants.

     SPECIALTY APPAREL

Red Kap is a leading producer of occupational and career apparel sold primarily
under the RED KAP(R) label.   Approximately 75% of Red Kap's sales are to
industrial laundries that in turn supply work









clothes to employers, primarily on a rental basis, for on-the-job wear by
production, service and white-collar personnel.  Products include work pants,
slacks, work and dress shirts, overalls, jackets and smocks.  Because
industrial laundries maintain minimal inventories of work clothes, a supplier's
ability to offer rapid delivery is an important factor in this market.  Red
Kap's commitment to customer service has enabled customer orders to be filled
within 24 hours of receipt and has helped to provide Red Kap with a significant
share of the industrial laundry rental business.  In addition, Red Kap markets
a line of work clothes nationally to retail stores under the BIG BEN(R) brand
name.

Jantzen designs, manufactures and markets an extensive line of women's quality
swimwear and sportswear, including coordinated tops and bottoms, primarily
under the JANTZEN(R) trademark.  A significant portion of Jantzen's products
are manufactured by independent contractors.  Jantzen products are sold
primarily to department and specialty stores through its sales staff. Jantzen
also manufactures and markets its products in Canada, and the JANTZEN trademark
is licensed to other companies in several foreign countries.  The Jantzen men's
sweater and sportswear businesses were terminated in late 1994.   

The JanSport equipment division manufactures JANSPORT brand daypacks sold
through college bookstores and department and sporting goods stores and
JANSPORT backpacking and mountaineering gear sold primarily through outdoor and
sporting goods stores.  JANSPORT daypacks and bookbags have the leading brand
share in the United States.

RAW MATERIALS

The Company's raw materials include fabrics made from cotton, synthetics and
blends of cotton and synthetic yarn.  Fabric for its United States operations
is purchased from several domestic suppliers against scheduled production, and
fabric for its international operations is purchased from several international
suppliers.  The fabric is cut and sewn into finished garments.

The Company's Bassett-Walker division purchases substantially all of its cotton
yarn and cotton and synthetic blend yarn from a major textile company under a
long-term supply agreement. Additional yarn is available from numerous other
sources.  The Vanity Fair division purchases yarn from several suppliers. These
two divisions knit the yarn into fabric, which is then cut and sewn into
finished garments.

The Company also purchases thread and trim (buttons, zippers, snaps and lace)
from numerous suppliers.  The Company has not experienced difficulty in
obtaining fabric and other raw materials to meet production needs during 1994
and does not anticipate difficulties in 1995.  The loss of any one supplier
would not have a significant adverse effect on the Company's business.

SEASONALITY

The apparel industry in the United States has four primary retail selling
seasons -- Spring, Summer, Back-to-School and Holiday, while international 
markets typically have Spring and Fall selling seasons.  As an apparel 
manufacturer, sales to retailers generally precede the retail selling
seasons, although the demand peaks from our retail customers have been reduced
in recent years as more products are being sold on a replenishment basis.









Overall, with its diversified product offerings, the Company's operating
results are not highly seasonal. On a quarterly basis, consolidated net sales
range from a low of approximately 22% in the first quarter to a high of 28% in
the third quarter.  Sales of the Decorated Knitwear business group, however,
are more seasonal in nature, with approximately 60% of its sales of T-shirt and
fleece products in the second half of the year.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year.  Working capital
increases during the first half of the year as inventory builds to support peak
shipping periods, and accordingly decreases during the second half.  Cash
provided by operations is substantially higher in the second half of the year
due to higher net income and reduced working capital requirements during that
period.

ADVERTISING

The Company supports its brands through extensive advertising and promotional
programs and through sponsorship of special events.  The Company advertises on
national and local radio and television and in consumer and trade publications.
It also participates in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with
major retailers in radio, television and various print media.  In addition,
point-of-sale fixtures and signage are used to promote products at the retail
level.  During 1994, the Company spent $219 million advertising and promoting
its products.

OTHER MATTERS

     COMPETITIVE FACTORS

Trademarks are of material importance to all of the Company's operating
subsidiaries.  Company-owned brands are protected by registration or otherwise
in the United States and most other markets where the related products are
sold.  These trademark rights are enforced and protected by litigation against
infringement as necessary.  The Company has granted licenses to other parties
to manufacture apparel products in geographic areas where the Company does not
have operations.  The Company assures that these parties adhere to the same
high standards of quality used in the Company's own operations.

In some instances, the Company pays a royalty to use the trademarks of others.
The MARITHE & FRANCOIS GIRBAUD label is under license in the United States
through 1997, subject to a single five year renewal term.  The Company has
licenses granted by the four major American professional sports leagues - -
Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National
Football League and the National Hockey League. Apparel is also manufactured
and marketed featuring licensed characters from The Walt Disney Company, as
well as apparel under the licensed FISHER-PRICE and NIKE labels.  Some of these
license arrangements are for a short term and may not contain specific renewal
options.  Management believes that loss of any license would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

The apparel industry is highly competitive and consists of a number of domestic
and foreign companies; some competitors have assets and sales greater than
those of the Company.  In addition, the Company competes with a number of firms
that produce and distribute only a limited number of









products similar to those sold by the Company or sell only in certain
geographic areas being supplied by the Company.

A characteristic of the apparel industry is the requirement that a manufacturer
recognize fashion trends and adequately provide products to meet such trends.
Competitive advantage in the industry is obtained by manufacturing better
quality, market-responsive apparel and delivering to the retailer on time and
at lower cost.  The Company is striving to achieve this competitive edge with
its Market Response System and proprietary FLOW REPLENISHMENT SYSTEM(R).  The
FLOW REPLENISHMENT SYSTEM is capable of capturing the sale of an individual
garment at the time the consumer purchases the garment, creating and processing
all necessary documentation, and shipping the exact garment to the retailer so
that it is back on the selling store's shelf in less than seven days.

     EMPLOYEES

The Company employs approximately 68,000 men and women, of which approximately
6,500 are covered by various collective bargaining agreements.  Employee
relations are considered to be good.

     BACKLOG

The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed to be firm as of the end of the
Company's fiscal year and as of the end of the preceding fiscal year is not
material for an understanding of the business of the Company taken as a whole.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

The Company owns most of its facilities used in manufacturing, distribution and
administrative activities.  Certain other facilities are leased under operating
leases that generally contain renewal options.  Management believes all
facilities and machinery and equipment are in good condition and are suitable
for the Company's needs.  Manufacturing and distribution facilities presently
being utilized are summarized below for the Company's business groups:



In addition, the Company owns or leases various administrative and office
space.  The Company also has facilities having 2,648,000 square feet of space
that is used for factory outlet operations.  Approximately 76% of the factory
outlet space is used for selling and warehousing the Company's products, with
the balance consisting of space leased to tenants and common areas.









ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

There are no material legal proceedings or investigations pending or threatened
to which the Company or any of its operating companies is a party or of which
any of their property is the subject.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the text under the caption "Other Matters"
included in page 21 of the 1994 Annual Report is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.

ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

The following are the Executive Officers of VF Corporation as of March 1, 1995.
The term of office of each of the officers continues to the next annual meeting
of the Board of Directors to be held April 18, 1995.  There is no family
relationship among any of the VF Corporation officers.







Mr. Pugh joined the Company as President in 1980.  In 1982, he was elected
Chief Executive Officer and in 1983 was elected Chairman of the Board.  In
October 1990, he was also elected President of the Company, serving in that
position until October 1993.  Additional information is included in page 3 of
the Company's definitive proxy statement dated March 17, 1995 for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 18, 1995 ("1995 Proxy Statement").

Mr. McDonald joined the Company's Lee division in 1983 serving in various
management positions until his election as President of the Company's former
Troutman division in 1984.  He was named Executive Vice President of the
Wrangler division in 1986 and President of Wrangler in 1988.  He was named
Group Vice President of the Company in February 1991 and in October 1993 was
elected President of the Company.  Additional information is included in page 3
of the 1995 Proxy Statement.

Mr. Addis joined the Company in 1984 as Vice President - Human Resources and
was elected Vice President - Human Resources and Administration in 1988.

Mrs. Cummings joined the Company as Vice President - General Counsel in January
1995.  For the prior five years, she had been a senior business partner at the
international law firm of Dechert Price & Rhoads where she had spent her entire
professional career.

Mr. Johnson joined the Company in 1988 as Vice President - Finance and Chief
Financial Officer.

Mr. Mac Farlan joined the Company's Jantzen division in 1978 serving in various
positions until he was named Vice President and General Manager - Women's
Casualwear in September 1990 and Senior Vice President - Sales and Women's
Casual in June 1992.  In July 1993, he was named Vice President - Market
Development of the Intimate Apparel divisions and was elected President of the
Company's VF Factory Outlet division in October 1993.  He has been President of
the Company's Nutmeg division since November 1994 and Chairman of the Decorated
Knitwear Coalition since February 1995.

Mr. Pickard joined the Company in 1976 and was elected Assistant Controller in
1982, Assistant Treasurer in 1985, Treasurer in 1987 and Vice President -
Treasurer in April 1994.

Mr. Schamberger joined the Company's Wrangler division in 1972 serving in
various positions until he was named Vice President and General Manager - New
Brands in 1987 and Vice President - Consumer Marketing in March 1991.  He was
elected President of Wrangler in 1992 and Chairman of the Jeanswear Coalition
in February 1995.

Mr. Shearer joined the Company in 1986 as Assistant Controller and was elected
Controller in 1989 and Vice President -Controller in April 1994.

Mrs. Tarnoski joined the Company in 1961.  She was elected Assistant Secretary
in 1973, Secretary in 1974 and Vice President in 1979.



                                    PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

Information concerning the market and price history of the Company's common
stock, plus dividend information, as reported under the caption "Quarterly
Results of Operations" on page 15 and under the captions "Investor Information
- Common Stock, Shareholders of Record, Dividend Policy, Dividend Reinvestment
Plan, Dividend Direct Deposit and Quarterly Common Stock Price Information" on
page 32 of the 1994 Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Selected financial data for the Company for each of its last five fiscal years
under the caption "Financial Summary" on pages 28 and 29 of the 1994 Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

A discussion of the Company's financial condition and results of operations is
incorporated herein by reference to pages 17, 19 and 21 of the 1994 Annual
Report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Financial statements of the Company and specific supplementary financial
information are incorporated herein by reference to pages 16, 18, 20 and 22
through 27 of the 1994 Annual Report.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

Not applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

Information under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 2 through 4 of
the 1995 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  See Item 4A with
regard to Executive Officers.

Information under the caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act" on page 23 of the 1995 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

Information with regard to this item is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 6 through 17 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

Information under the caption "Certain Beneficial Owners" on page 19 and
"Common Stock Ownership of Management" on page 20 of the 1995 Proxy Statement
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

Information under the caption "Common Stock Ownership of Management" on page 20
of the 1995 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

          1.     Financial statements - Included on pages 16, 18, 20 and 22
    through 27 of the 1994 Annual Report (Exhibit 13) and incorporated by 
    reference in Item 8:

    Consolidated statements of income - - Fiscal years ended December 31, 1994,
    January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993

    Consolidated balance sheets - - December 31, 1994 and January 1, 1994

    Consolidated statements of cash flows - - Fiscal years ended December 31,
    1994, January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993

    Consolidated statements of common shareholders' equity - - Fiscal years
    ended December 31, 1994, January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993

    Notes to consolidated financial statements

          2.     Financial statement schedules - The following consolidated
    financial statement schedule is included herein:


    Schedule II - - Valuation and qualifying accounts

    All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
    regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under
    the related instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been 
    omitted.

          3.     Exhibits

Number                                Description

    2     Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or
          succession:

          (A)    Agreement and Plan of Merger between the Company, Spice
                 Acquisition Co. and Nutmeg Industries, Inc. dated December 12,
                 1993 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (d) Schedule 14D-1
                 filed December 12, 1993)

     3    Articles of incorporation and bylaws:

          (A)    Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated as of April
                 18, 1986 and as presently in effect (Incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 3(A) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 4, 1992)

          (B)    Statement Affecting Class or Series of Shares (Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 3(B) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                 ended January 2, 1993)

          (C)    Statement with Respect to Shares of Series B ESOP Convertible
                 Preferred Stock (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
                 Form 8-K dated January 22, 1990)

          (D)    Bylaws, as amended through July 17, 1990 and as presently in
                 effect (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Form 8
                 amendment, dated August 10, 1990, to Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                 quarter ended June 30, 1990)

     4    Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
          indentures:

          (A)    A specimen of the Company's Common Stock certificate
                 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(A) to Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993)

          (B)    A specimen of the Company's Series B ESOP Convertible
                 Preferred Stock certificate (Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4(B) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                 29, 1990)

          (C)    Indenture between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust
                 Company of New York, dated January 1, 1987 (Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-3 Registration No.
                 33-10939)

          (D)    First Supplemental Indenture between the Company, Morgan
                 Guaranty Trust Company of New York and United States Trust
                 Company of New York, dated September 1, 1989 (Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form S-3 Registration No.
                 33-30889)


          (E)    Rights Agreement, dated January 13, 1988, between the Company
                 and Morgan Shareholder Services Trust Company (Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4(E) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                 ended January 2, 1993)

          (F)    Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated April 17, 1990,
                 between the Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New
                 York (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Form 10-Q for
                 the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1990)

          (G)    Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement, dated December 4, 1990,
                 between the Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New
                 York (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Form 8-K dated
                 December 4, 1990)

          (H)    Second Supplemental Indenture between the Company and United
                 States Trust Company of New York as Trustee (Incorporated 
                 by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, dated April 6, 1994)

     10   Material contracts:

          (A)    1982 Stock Option Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                 4.1.1 of Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-8/S- 3,
                 Registration No. 33-26566)

          (B)    1991 Stock Option Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A
                 of the Company's 1992 Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1992)

          (C)    Annual Discretionary Management Incentive Compensation Program
                 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(C) to Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended January 4, 1992)

          (D)    Deferred Compensation Plan (Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10(B) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                 29, 1990)

          (E)    Executive Deferred Savings Plan (Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10(E) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 4, 1992)

          (F)    Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
                 dated May 16, 1989

          (G)    First Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for L. R.
                 Pugh

          (H)    Second Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for
                 Mid-Career Senior Management

          (I)    Third Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Senior
                 Management

          (J)    Fourth Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for
                 Participants in the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan


          (K)    Fifth Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan which
                 funds certain benefits upon a Change in Control

          (L)    Seventh Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for 
                 Participants in the Company's Executive Deferred Savings Plan

          (M)    Eighth Amended Annual Benefit Determination under the Amended
                 and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for 
                 Participants whose Pension Plan Benefits are limited by the 
                 Internal Revenue Code

          (N)    Form of Change in Control Agreement with senior management of
                 the Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(J) to
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990)

          (O)    Form of Change in Control Agreement with other management of
                 the Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(K) to
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990)

          (P)    Form of Change in Control Agreement with management of
                 subsidiaries of the Company (Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10(L) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                 29, 1990)

          (Q)    Revolving Credit Agreement, dated October 20, 1994

          (R)    Executive Incentive Compensation Plan

          (S)    VF Corporation Restricted Stock Agreement

          (T)    Discretionary Executive Bonus Plan

     11       Computation of earnings per common share

     13       Annual report to security holders

     21       Subsidiaries of the Corporation

     23.1     Consents of experts and counsel

     23.2     Consents of experts and counsel

     24       Power of attorney

     27       Financial data schedule



     99       Additional exhibits:

                 (A)    Form 11-K for VF Corporation Tax-Advantaged Savings 
                        Plan for Salaried  Employees for the year ended 
                        December 31, 1994

All other exhibits for which provision is made in the applicable regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1994.

                                 OTHER MATTERS

For purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing
Registration Statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, the
undersigned Company hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be
incorporated by reference into the Company's Registration Statements on Form
S-8 Nos. 33-26566 (filed January 12, 1989), 33-33621 (filed February 28, 1990)
and 33-41241 (filed June 24, 1991):

     Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities
     Act of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling
     persons of the Company pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise,
     the Company has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and
     Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public policy as
     expressed in the Securities Act of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable.
     In the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities
     (other than the payment by the Company of expenses incurred or paid by a
     director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the
     successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such
     director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities
     being registered, the Company will, unless in the opinion of its counsel
     the matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of
     appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it
     is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by
     the final adjudication of such issue.





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  V.F. CORPORATION

                                  By:  /s/ Lawrence R. Pugh    
                                     --------------------------
                                       Lawrence R. Pugh
                                       Chairman of the Board
                                       (Chief Executive Officer)

                                  By:  /s/ Gerard G. Johnson   
                                     --------------------------
                                       Gerard G. Johnson
                                       Vice President - Finance
                                       (Chief Financial Officer)

                                  By:  /s/ Robert K. Shearer   
                                     --------------------------
                                       Robert K. Shearer
                                       Vice President - Controller
                                       (Chief Accounting Officer)



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:








                                VF CORPORATION
                                      
               SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                        

                                         


                                         
(A)  Deductions include accounts written off, net of recoveries.  Amounts are 
     also net of additions of $2.4 million and $4.3 million in 1994 and 1992, 
     respectively, from the acquisitions of subsidiaries. 






                                      


The following exhibits of VF Corporation are included in Item 14(a):

                                          EXHIBIT INDEX















All other exhibits for which provision is made in the applicable regulations
of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

