
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                       OR

__   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the transition period from __________ to __________

Commission File Number 1-475

                             A.O. SMITH CORPORATION

                  Delaware                               39-0619790
         (State of Incorporation)                  (IRS Employer ID Number)

                P. O. Box 23972, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53223-0972
                            Telephone: (414) 359-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                           Shares of Stock Outstanding  Name of Each Exchange on
Title of Each Class             January 31, 2001            Which Registered
- -------------------       ---------------------------  ------------------------

Class A Common Stock               8,687,425             American Stock Exchange
(par value $5.00 per share)

Common Stock                      14,861,714             New York Stock Exchange
(par value $1.00 per share)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes X No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was $10,077,811 for Class A Common Stock and $188,286,466 for Common
Stock as of January 31, 2001.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:
1.   Portions of the company's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual
     Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
     Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the
     registrant's fiscal year and, upon such filing, to be incorporated by
     reference in Part III).

                                     PART 1

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS
- -----------------

A. O. Smith Corporation serves customers worldwide and consists of two segments,
Electric Motor Technologies and Water Systems Technologies. The company's
Electric Motors business is one of North America's largest manufacturers of
fractional horsepower, integral horsepower Alternating Current (A/C) and Direct
Current (D/C), and hermetic electric motors. The Water Systems business is a
leading manufacturer of residential and commercial gas and electric water
heating equipment and copper tube boilers.

On December 8, 2000 A. O. Smith sold its fiberglass products business to Varco
International Corporation. On January 10, 2001, the company sold its engineered
storage products business to CST Industries. The sale of these two businesses
completed the divestiture of the company's Storage and Fluid Handling business
segment announced in January 2000. Net cash proceeds from the divestitures will
total approximately $62 million. The operating results of the fiberglass
products and the engineered storage products businesses have been reported
separately as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Discontinued
Operations" which appears elsewhere herein.

The following table summarizes sales by segment for the company's operations.
This segment summary and all other information presented in this section should
be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes
thereto, which appear elsewhere herein.

                                  Years Ended December 31 (dollars in millions)

                                 2000        1999      1998      1997     1996
                                 ----        ----      ----      ----     ----

 Electric Motor Technologies    $ 902.4     $ 735.0    $487.4    $397.7   $343.2

 Water Systems Technologies       345.5       335.3     313.4     305.4    310.8
                                  -----       -----     -----     -----    -----

 Total Continuing Operations   $1,247.9    $1,070.3    $800.8    $703.1   $654.0
                                =======    ========    ======    ======   ======

ELECTRIC MOTOR TECHNOLOGIES

Segment sales increased $167 million or 23 percent in 2000 to $902 million and
represented 72 percent of total sales from continuing operations. The increase
in sales in 2000 was due to the acquisition of the MagneTek, Inc. (MagneTek)
electric motor business in August 1999.

A. O. Smith Electrical Products Company manufactures hermetic motors that are
sold worldwide to manufacturers of air conditioning and commercial refrigeration
compressors; fractional horsepower fan motors used in furnaces, air
conditioners, and blowers; fractional horsepower motors for pumps for home water
systems, swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas; and fractional horsepower motors
used in other consumer products (such as garage door openers); and integral
horsepower A/C and D/C motors for industrial and commercial applications. Sales
to the heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and refrigeration market account
for approximately 60 percent of segment sales.



A. O. Smith Electrical Products Company sells directly to original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs) and also markets its products through a distributor
network, which sells to smaller OEMs and the after-market. The company estimates
that approximately 60 percent of the market is derived from the less cyclical
replacement business with the remainder being impacted by general business
conditions in the new construction market.

The segment's principal products are sold in competitive markets with its major
competitors being Emerson Electric, General Electric, Fasco, Jakel, and
vertically integrated customers.

WATER SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGIES

A. O. Smith Water Products Company had 2000 sales of $346 million, approximately
three percent higher than 1999 sales of $335 million and represented 28 percent
of total sales from continuing operations.

Domestic residential water heater sales in 2000 were $176 million or
approximately 51 percent of segment revenues. The company markets residential
gas and electric water heaters through a network of plumbing wholesalers in the
United States and Canada. The majority of the company's sales are in the less
cyclical replacement market, although the new housing market is also an
important portion of the business. The residential water heater market remains
highly competitive. A. O. Smith competes with four other manufacturers in
supplying over 90 percent of market requirements. The principal competitors of
the Water Products business are Rheem Manufacturing, State Industries, The
American Water Heater Group, and Bradford-White.

The company also markets commercial water heating equipment through a network of
plumbing wholesalers in the United States and Canada. A. O. Smith's Water
Products business is the largest manufacturer of storage commercial water
heaters in North America. Commercial water heaters are used in a wide range of
applications including schools, nursing homes, hospitals, prisons, hotels,
motels, laundries, restaurants, stadiums, amusement parks, car washes, and other
large users of hot water. The commercial market is characterized by competition
from a broader range of products and competitors than occurs in the residential
market. The majority of commercial sales are derived from the less cyclical
replacement market with the remainder being impacted by general business
conditions in the commercial construction market.

In 1995, Water Products established a joint venture in China to manufacture
instantaneous and storage type heaters for the Chinese market. A. O. Smith
acquired its partner's interest during the fourth quarter of 1998 and began
reporting the Chinese subsidiary's financial results on a consolidated basis
effective January 1, 1999. Sales in China have grown to $25 million in 2000
compared with sales of $13 million in 1999.



RAW MATERIAL

Raw materials for the company's operations, which consist primarily of steel,
copper, and aluminum are generally available from several sources in adequate
quantities. The company hedges the majority of its annual copper purchases to
protect against price volatility.

SEASONALITY

There is no significant seasonal pattern to the company's consolidated quarterly
sales and earnings.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS, AND TRADEMARKS

In order to improve competitiveness by generating new products and processes,
the company conducts research and development at its Corporate Technology Center
in Milwaukee, Wisconsin as well as at its operating units. Research and
development costs for continuing operations in 2000, 1999, and 1998, were
approximately $24.5, $23.9, and $19.4 million, respectively.

The company owns and uses in its businesses various trademarks, trade names,
patents, trade secrets, and licenses. While a number of these are important to
the company, it does not consider a material part of its business to be
dependent on any one of them.

EMPLOYEES

The company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 13,800 persons in its
continuing operations as of December 31, 2000.

BACKLOG

Normally, none of the company's operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

The company's operations are governed by a variety of federal, state, and local
laws intended to protect the environment. While environmental considerations are
a part of all significant capital expenditures, compliance with the
environmental laws has not had a material effect and is not expected to have a
material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position
of the company. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.

FOREIGN SALES

Total U. S. export sales from continuing operations were $62 million, $46
million, and $39 million in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.



ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
- -------------------

The company manufactures its products in 37 plants worldwide. These facilities
have an aggregate floor space of 5,321,799 square feet, consisting of 3,501,746
square feet owned by the company and 1,820,053 square feet of leased space.
Twenty-two of the company's facilities are foreign plants with 2,125,077 square
feet of space, of which 1,187,313 square feet are leased.

Excluded from the above totals are 1,132,000 square feet of domestic and 25,000
square feet of foreign space occupied by the company's Storage & Fluid Handling
Technologies businesses, which the company has announced as sold in January
2001. The manufacturing plants presently operated by the company's continuing
operations are listed below by industry segment.

                      United States                       Foreign
                      -------------                       -------

Electric Motor        Alta Vista, VA                      Acuna, Mexico;
 Technologies         McMinnville, TN; Mebane, NC;        Bray, Ireland;
 (3,672,707 sq. ft.)  Monticello, IN; Mt. Sterling, KY;   Budapest, Hungary;
                      Owosso, MI; Paoli, IN;              Gainsborough, England;
                      Ripley, TN; Scottsville, KY;        Juarez, Mexico (11);
                      Tipp City, OH; Upper Sandusky, OH   Monterrey, Mexico(2)


Water Systems         El Paso, TX; Florence, KY;          Juarez, Mexico;
  Technologies        McBee, SC; Renton, WA               Nanjing, People's
 (1,649,092 sq. ft.)                                      Republic of China;
                                                          Stratford, Canada(2);
                                                          Veldhoven,
                                                           The Netherlands

The principal equipment at the company's facilities consist of presses, welding,
machining, slitting, and other metal fabricating equipment, winding machines,
and furnace and painting equipment. The company regards its plants and equipment
as well-maintained and adequate for its needs. Multishift operations are used
where necessary.

In addition to its manufacturing facilities, the company's World Headquarters
and Corporate Technology Center are located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The company
also has offices in Alsip, Illinois; El Paso, Texas; Irving, Texas; London,
England; St. Louis, Missouri; and Singapore.

ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

The company is involved in various unresolved legal actions, administrative
proceedings, and claims in the ordinary course of its business involving product
liability, property damage, insurance coverage, patents, and environmental
matters including the disposal of hazardous waste. Although it is not possible
to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the
range of possible loss or recovery, the company believes these unresolved legal
actions will not have a material effect on its financial position or results of
operations. A more detailed discussion of these matters appears in Note 12 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 4 - SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to a vote of the security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2000.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
- ---------------------------------

Pursuant to General Instruction of G(3) of Form 10-K, the following is a list of
the current executive officers which is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I
of this report in lieu of being included in the company's Proxy Statement for
its 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ROBERT J. O'TOOLE
- -----------------

  Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer

  Mr. O'Toole, 60, became chairman of the board of directors in March 1992. He
  is a member of the Investment Policy Committee of the board of directors. He
  was elected chief executive officer in March 1989. He was elected president,
  chief operating officer, and a director in 1986. Mr. O'Toole joined the
  company in 1963. He is a director of Briggs & Stratton Corporation and Factory
  Mutual Insurance Company.

GLEN R. BOMBERGER
- -----------------

Executive Vice President

  Mr. Bomberger, 63, has been a director and executive vice president of the
  company since 1986. He was chief financial officer from 1986 through August
  2000. He is a member of the Investment Policy Committee of the board of
  directors. Mr. Bomberger joined A. O. Smith in 1960. He is currently a
  director of Smith Investment Company and Firstar Funds, Inc.

JOHN A. BERTRAND
- ----------------

  Senior Vice President and President - A. O. Smith Electrical Products Company

  Mr. Bertrand, 62, has been president of A. O. Smith Electrical Products
  Company, a division of the company, since 1986. He was elected senior vice
  president in October 1999. Mr. Bertrand joined the company in 1960.

CHARLES J. BISHOP
- -----------------

  Vice President - Corporate Technology

  Dr. Bishop, 59, has been vice president-corporate technology since 1985. Dr.
  Bishop joined the company in 1981.

MICHAEL J. COLE
- ---------------

  Vice President - Asia

  Mr. Cole, 56, was elected vice president-Asia in March 1996. Previously he was
  vice president-emerging markets of Donnelly Corporation, an automotive
  supplier.


JOHN J. KITA
- ------------

  Vice President, Treasurer and Controller

  Mr. Kita, 45, was elected vice president, treasurer and controller in April
  1996. From 1995 to 1996 he was treasurer and controller. Prior thereto, he
  served as assistant treasurer since he joined the company in 1988.

KENNETH W. KRUEGER
- ------------------

  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

  Mr. Krueger, 44, became senior vice president and chief financial officer in
  August 2000. Previously he was a group vice president, finance and business
  planning at Eaton Corporation. Prior to Eaton, he was vice president, finance
  for Rockwell Automation, where he worked from 1983 to 1999.

RONALD E. MASSA
- ---------------

  Senior Vice President and President - A. O. Smith Water Products Company

  Mr. Massa, 51, became president of A. O. Smith Water Products Company, a
  division of the company, in February 1999. He was elected senior vice
  president in June 1997. He served as the president of A. O. Smith Automotive
  Products Company, a former division of the company, from June 1996 to April
  1997. He was the president of A. O. Smith Water Products Company from 1995 to
  June 1996 and held other management positions in the Water Products Company
  prior thereto. He joined the company in 1976.

ALBERT E. MEDICE
- ----------------

  Vice President - Europe

  Mr. Medice, 58, was elected vice president-Europe in 1995. Previously, from
  1990 to 1995, he was the general manager of A. O. Smith Electric Motors
  (Ireland) Ltd., a subsidiary of the company. Mr. Medice joined A. O. Smith in
  1986 as vice president-marketing for its Electrical Products Company division.

EDWARD J. O'CONNOR
- ------------------

  Vice President - Human Resources and Public Affairs

  Mr. O'Connor, 60, has been vice president-human resources and public affairs
  for the company since 1986. He joined A. O. Smith in 1970.

STEVE W. RETTLER
- ----------------

  Vice President - Business Development

  Mr. Rettler, 46, was elected vice president-business development in July 1998.
  Previously he was vice president and general manager of Brady Precision Tape
  Co., a manufacturer of specialty tape products for the electronics market.

W. DAVID ROMOSER
- ----------------

  Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

  Mr. Romoser, 57, was elected vice president, general counsel and secretary in
  March 1992.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
MATTERS
- -------

     (a) Market Information. The Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
     Exchange. The Class A Common Stock of A. O. Smith Corporation is listed on
     the American Stock Exchange. The symbols for these classes of the company's
     stock are: AOS for the Common Stock and SMCA for the Class A Common Stock.
     Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A., P. O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota
     55164-0854 serves as the registrar, stock transfer agent, and the dividend
     reinvestment agent for both classes of the company's common stock.

     Quarterly Common Stock Price Range

        2000                1st Qtr.    2nd Qtr.      3rd Qtr.    4th Qtr.
        ----                --------    --------      --------    ---------
        Common Stock
        High                  23-1/8    22-13/16        21-3/8       17-1/4
        Low                 14-15/16    17-13/16       11-3/16       12-1/2

        Class A Common
        High                      22     22-7/16        17-1/4       16-7/8
        Low                   15-1/2      17-7/8            12       12-3/4

        1999                1st Qtr.    2nd Qtr.      3rd Qtr.    4th Qtr.
        ----                --------    --------      --------    ---------
        Common Stock
        High                 26-7/16          28            32      31-9/16
        Low                       19          19        25-1/2     18-13/16

        Class A Common
        High                25-11/16     25-9/16        31-1/2           31
        Low                  19-5/16     19-3/16        26-1/8      19-3/16

     (b)  Holders. As of January 31, 2001, the number of shareholders of record
          of Common Stock and Class A Common Stock were 1,205 and 522
          respectively.

     (c)  Dividends. Dividends paid on the common stock are shown in Note 14 to
          the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere herein. The
          company's credit agreements contain certain conditions and provisions
          which restrict the company's payment of dividends. Under the most
          restrictive of these provisions, retained earnings of $62.3 million
          were unrestricted as of December 31, 2000.

     (d)  Stock Repurchase Authority. As of February 20, 2001, approximately 8.5
          million shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock had been
          repurchased for $212.5 million under three stock repurchase
          authorizations granted by the Board of Directors in 1997.


ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------
(Dollars in Thousands, except per share amounts)



ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

FINANCIAL REVIEW
A. O. Smith Corporation recorded earnings from continuing operations of $41.7
million or $1.76 per share in 2000 compared with $50.3 million or $2.11 per
share in 1999. The Electric Motor Technologies and Water Systems Technologies
segments established new sales records in 2000, and the Water Systems
Technologies segment achieved record earnings. Details of individual segment
performance will be discussed later in the section.

Working capital for continuing operations at December 31, 2000 was $213.0
million compared with $209.8 million and $140.0 million at December 31, 1999 and
1998, respectively. The modest increase in 2000 was due to higher inventories as
a result of weaker HVAC markets. The increase to working capital in 1999 was due
to the acquisition of the assets associated with MagneTek's worldwide motor
operations and higher inventory in anticipation of customer demand in the first
quarter 2000 at Electric Motor Technologies.

Capital expenditures were $40.5 million in 2000 versus $32.8 million in 1999 and
$18.5 million in 1998. The increase in capital spending during 2000 and 1999
occurred in the company's electric motors operation. The company is projecting
2001 capital expenditures of approximately $40 to $45 million. Cash flow during
2001 is expected to adequately cover these capital expenditures.

Long-term debt decreased $34.9 million from $351.3 million at December 31, 1999,
to $316.4 million at December 31, 2000. Likewise, the company's leverage, as
measured by total debt to total capital, fell to 42.2 percent at the end of 2000
compared with 45.6 percent at the end of 1999. In 2000, the company renewed its
$100 million, 364-day revolving credit facility with a group of nine banks.
Barring any acquisitions, the company expects the combination of 2001 cash flow
and the proceeds from the divestiture of its Engineered Storage Products
business will result in a significantly lower leverage ratio at the end of 2001.

A. O. Smith Corporation has paid dividends for 61 consecutive years. The company
paid a total of $.50 per share in 2000 versus $.48 per share in 1999.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Sales from continuing operations in 2000 were $1.25 billion, surpassing 1999
sales of $1.07 billion by $178 million or 17 percent. The increase in sales
resulted from an additional seven months of sales from the August 1999
acquisition of MagneTek motors, or approximately $190 million; and a near
doubling, or an additional $12 million in sales, from the company's Chinese
water heater operation. These increases were partially offset by lower sales in
the company's underlying electric motor business, compared with 1999. Sales in
1999 increased by $270 million compared with 1998, with $210 million of that
increase attributable to electric motor acquisitions in 1998 and 1999. In
addition, $13 million of the increase in 1999 was due to the inclusion of sales
from the Chinese water heater operation, which became wholly owned in December
1998.

The company's gross profit margin for 2000 was 19.9 percent, compared with 21.6
percent and 22.2 percent achieved in 1999 and 1998, respectively. The decline in
gross margin over the three-year period was due largely to the aforementioned
acquisitions, and the inclusion of the Chinese water heater operation, all of
which carried lower margins compared with their respective base businesses. The
gross margin in 2000 was also adversely affected by less favorable cost
absorption associated with declining volumes in the latter half of the year.

Sales in the Electric Motor Technologies segment in 2000 increased $167 million
or 23 percent to $902 million from 1999 sales of $735 million. Sales in 1998
were $487 million. The incremental seven months of ownership of the MagneTek
motor business in 2000 added approximately $190 million in sales. Excluding
MagneTek, sales in the underlying motor business declined 5 percent due mostly
to a reduction in demand from heating and air conditioning customers confronted
with record levels of finished product inventory. Most of the sales increase
from 1998 to 1999 was the result of the August 1999 MagneTek motor acquisition,
coupled with a full



year of sales from the July 1998 acquisition of General Electric's compressor
motor business. Sales in 1999 also benefited from favorable market conditions
for fractional and hermetic motors for heating, ventilating and air conditioning
applications.

Earnings for the Electric Motor Technologies segment in 2000 were $75.5 million
or $3.4 million lower than 1999 operating earnings of $78.9 million. Earnings in
1998 were $56.5 million. The decline in earnings from 1999 to 2000 was due
primarily to the previously mentioned high level of air conditioning
inventories, which adversely affected demand in the last half of the year.
Margins were adversely affected by under-absorbed costs associated with
significant reductions in manufacturing volumes. The 40 percent increase in
earnings from 1998 to 1999 resulted primarily from the higher sales volume due
to acquisitions and growth in the underlying electric motor business.

Sales for Water Systems Technologies increased approximately three percent from
$335 million in 1999 to $346 million in 2000. Sales in 1998 were $313 million.
The increase in 2000 sales was attributable to the Chinese water heater
operation where sales almost doubled over 1999, contributing an additional $12
million. The increase in sales from 1998 to 1999 resulted from the inclusion of
$13 million of sales from the Chinese operation, which became wholly owned in
December 1998, as well as higher commercial and other international sales.

Earnings for Water Systems Technologies were $34.9 million in 2000 reflecting
modest improvement over 1999 earnings of $33.8 million and resulted from
improved performance in China. The earnings improvement from $30 million in 1998
to $33.8 million in 1999 was due to higher gross margins associated with
favorable cost performance in 1999.

On January 21, 2000, the company announced its decision to exit the storage tank
and fiberglass pipe markets, consistent with the company's strategy to expand
its presence in the electric motor and water products markets and to be a
consolidator in those industries. On December 8, 2000, the company sold the
fiberglass piping business, operated as Smith Fiberglass Products Company to
Varco International Corporation. The transaction took the form of the sale of
the majority of the fiberglass piping domestic assets and the sale of the
company's equity interest in its Chinese operation. On January 10, 2001, the
company sold substantially all of the assets of its storage tank business,
Engineered Storage Products Company, to CST Industries. The sale of these
businesses will result in net after-tax proceeds of approximately $62 million.
After-tax losses associated with discontinued operations amounted to $11.9
million and $7.8 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively, and consist mostly of
losses associated with the disposition of these businesses. The 2000 loss also
included an after-tax charge of $4 million related to revised estimates on
certain claims that arose out of the sale of its automotive business in April
1997. Earnings from discontinued operations in 1998 were $3.8 million and
reflect the after-tax earnings from operations of the fiberglass pipe and
storage tank businesses.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense in 2000 was $154 million, $18
million more than the $136 million recorded in 1999. The increase was due to the
additional SG&A associated with a full year of operating the MagneTek motor
business. SG&A in 1999 increased $31 million over 1998 due to the MagneTek
acquisition and the initial consolidation of the Chinese water products
operation. Relative to sales, SG&A has demonstrated a modestly declining trend
over the last three years.

Interest expense, net of the amount allocated to discontinued operations, was
$22.1 million in 2000 compared with $12.8 million and $5.9 million in 1999 and
1998, respectively. The increases over the three-year period were due primarily
to acquisition-related financings.

Amortization of intangibles has increased steadily to $6.9 million in 2000 from
$5.2 million and $2.5 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively, in connection with
the company's acquisitions in 1998 and 1999.

Other expense in 2000 was $0.3 million and compares with other income of $0.6
million and $2.9 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively. The reduction of income
from 1998 to 1999 and recognition of expense in 2000


reflects a decrease in interest income as marketable securities were liquidated
to fund the company's acquisitions.

The company's effective tax rate was 36.0 percent in 2000, 34.8 percent in 1999,
and 34.7 percent in 1998. The rate increased in 2000 as a result of fewer
research tax credits available in 2000 compared with 1999 and 1998.

Outlook
While the HVAC industry has reduced finished goods inventories going into the
new year, it is still too early to know if market demand will materialize as the
cooling season of 2001 begins. The company also believes the slowing domestic
economy and diminished consumer confidence may adversely affect motor sales to
the ventilation and appliance markets as well as its residential water heating
business.

Consequently, the company expects first-half sales and earnings in 2001 will not
reach the record levels generated during the first half of last year. A. O.
Smith is projecting first quarter earnings to range between $.30 and $.40 per
share and believes sales and earnings comparisons to 2000 results should improve
during the second half of the year, enabling it to exceed its 2000 performance.

With the Storage & Fluid Handling divestiture concluded, the company has
completed the transition begun in 1997 of making A. O. Smith into a more
focused, consistently profitable business. The company now consists of two very
competitive business units, and is confident it can continue to expand its size,
scope, and profitability.


OTHER MATTERS

Environmental
The company's operations are governed by a number of federal, state, and local
environmental laws concerning the generation and management of hazardous
materials, the discharge of pollutants into the environment, and remediation of
sites owned by the company or third parties. The company has expended financial
and managerial resources complying with such laws. Expenditures related to
environmental matters were not material in 2000 and are not expected to be
material in any single year. Although the company believes that its operations
are substantially in compliance with such laws and maintains procedures designed
to maintain compliance, there are no assurances that substantial additional
costs for compliance will not be incurred in the future. However, since the same
laws govern the company's competitors, the company should not be placed at a
competitive disadvantage.

Market Risk
The company is exposed to various types of market risks, primarily currency and
certain commodities. The company monitors its risks in such areas on a
continuous basis and generally enters into forward and futures contracts to
minimize such exposures for periods of less than one year. The company does not
engage in speculation in its derivatives strategies. Further discussion
regarding derivative instruments is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Commodity risks include raw material price fluctuations. The company uses
futures contracts to fix the cost of its expected needs with the objective of
reducing price risk. Futures contracts are purchased over time periods and at
volume levels which approximate expected usage. At December 31, 2000, the
company had commodity futures contracts amounting to approximately $43 million
of commodity purchases. A hypothetical 10 percent change in the underlying
commodity price of such contracts would have a potential impact of $4.3 million.
It is important to note that gains and losses from the company's futures
contract activities will be offset by gains and losses in the underlying
commodity purchase transactions being hedged.

In addition, the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to
minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies. At December 31, 2000, the
company had net foreign currency contracts outstanding of


approximately $57 million. Assuming a hypothetical 10 percent movement in the
respective currencies, the potential foreign exchange gain or loss associated
with the change in rates would amount to $5.7 million. It is important to note
that gains and losses from the company's forward contract activities will be
offset by gains and losses in the underlying transactions being hedged.

The company's earnings exposure related to movements in interest rates is
primarily derived from outstanding floating rate debt instruments that are
determined by short-term money market rates. At December 31, 2000, the company
had $219 million in outstanding floating rate debt with a weighted average
interest rate of 7.0 percent at year end. A hypothetical 10 percent annual
increase or decrease in the year-end average cost of the company's outstanding
floating rate debt would result in a change in annual pre-tax interest expense
of approximately $1.5 million.


Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements." These
forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the
context of the statement will include words such as the company "believes,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," or words of similar import.

Although the company believes that its expectations are based upon reasonable
assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, there can be no
assurance that the results expressed in forward-looking statements will be
realized. Although a significant portion of the company's sales are derived from
the replacement of previously installed product, and such sales are therefore
less volatile, numerous factors may affect actual results and cause results to
differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by, or
on behalf of, the company. The company considers most important among such
factors, the stability in its electric motor and water products markets, the
timely and proper integration of the MagneTek motors acquisition, and the
implementation of associated cost reduction programs.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the
company, or persons acting on its behalf, are expressly qualified in their
entirety by these cautionary statements.


ITEM 7A - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

See "Market Risk" above.




ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ----------------------------------------------------

Index to Financial Statements:                                        Form 10-K
                                                                     Page Number
                                                                     -----------

 Report of Independent Auditors...............................................15

 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999....................16

 For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000:

     - Consolidated Statement of Earnings.....................................17

     - Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.........................17

     - Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows...................................18

     - Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity.........................19

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................................20-36




REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP,
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
A. O. Smith Corporation


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of A. O. Smith
Corporation as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of A. O. Smith
Corporation at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.




                                                Ernst & Young LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin
January 19, 2001







See accompanying notes which are an integral part of these statements.



See accompanying notes which are an integral part of these statements.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization. A. O. Smith Corporation is a manufacturer serving customers
worldwide. The company's major product lines include fractional and integral
horsepower Alternating Current (A/C), Direct Current (D/C) and hermetic electric
motors, as well as residential and commercial water heaters. The company's
products are manufactured and marketed primarily in North America. Electric
motors are sold principally to original equipment manufacturers. Water heaters
are distributed principally through a diverse network of plumbing wholesalers.

Consolidation and basis of presentation. The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. As
discussed in Note 3, the company's fiberglass piping systems and liquid and dry
storage systems are classified as discontinued operations.

Investment in joint ventures. In December 1998 and January 1999, the company
bought out its partner in its water heater joint venture and its partner in its
fiberglass piping joint venture, both in the People's Republic of China, and
accordingly, the company consolidated these entities since the acquisition
dates. The fiberglass piping joint venture is classified as a discontinued
operation (see note 3).

Use of estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying financial
statements and notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Fair values. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
trade payables, and long-term debt approximated fair value as of December 31,
2000 and 1999.

Foreign currency translation. For all subsidiaries outside the United States
with the exception of Mexico, the company uses the local currency as the
functional currency. For these operations, assets and liabilities are translated
into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are
translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The resulting translation
adjustments are recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Gains
and losses from foreign currency transactions are included in net earnings.

Cash and cash equivalents. The company considers all highly liquid investments,
generally with a maturity of three months or less when purchased, to be cash
equivalents.

Inventory valuation. Inventories are carried at lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all
domestic inventories. Inventories of foreign subsidiaries and supplies are
determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

Property, plant, and equipment. Property, plant, and equipment are stated at
cost. Depreciation is computed primarily by the straight-line method. The
estimated service lives used to compute depreciation are generally 25 to 50
years for buildings and 5 to 20 years for equipment. Maintenance and repair
costs are expensed as incurred.

Goodwill and other intangibles. Goodwill and other intangibles are stated at
cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods
benefited ranging from 5 to 40 years.


1.  Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

December 31 (dollars in thousands)                         2000        1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Goodwill, at cost                                    $  248,925   $ 248,257
Other intangibles, at cost                               11,424      11,424
                                                         ------   ---------
                                                        260,349     259,681
Less accumulated amortization                            15,528       8,596
                                                     ----------   ---------
                                                     $  244,821   $ 251,085
                                                      =========    ========

Impairment of long-lived and intangible assets. Property, plant, equipment,
goodwill, and other intangibles are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. If the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows is less than the
carrying value of the related asset or group of assets, a loss is recognized for
the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the asset or group
of assets. Such analyses necessarily involve significant judgment.

Derivative instruments. The company enters into futures contracts to fix the
cost of certain raw material purchases, principally copper, with the objective
of minimizing changes in inventory cost due to market price fluctuations.
Through December 31, 2000 differences between the company's fixed price and
current market prices are included as part of the inventory cost when the
contracts mature. Beginning January 1, 2001, upon adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133 as amended by SFAS No. 138, the
effective portion of the gain or loss on the futures contract is reported as a
component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the
same period during which the inventory is sold. The remaining gain or loss on
the futures contract, if any, is recognized in current earnings during the
period of changes. As of December 31, 2000, the company had contracts covering
the majority of its expected copper requirements for 2001. These futures
contracts limit the impact from both favorable and unfavorable price changes.

The company and its subsidiaries conduct business in various foreign currencies.
To minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies on its income, the
company enters into foreign currency forward contracts. The contracts are used
to hedge known foreign currency transactions on a continuing basis for periods
consistent with the company's exposures. Beginning January 1, 2001, upon
adoption of SFAS No. 133 as amended by SFAS No. 138, the effective portion of
the gain or loss on the foreign currency forward contract is reported as a
component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the
same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The remaining
gain or loss on the futures contract, if any, is recognized in current earnings
during the period of changes.

The company does not engage in speculation. The difference between market and
contract rates is recognized in the same period in which gains or losses from
the transactions being hedged are recognized. The contracts, which are executed
with major financial institutions, generally mature within one year with no
credit loss anticipated for failure of the counterparties to perform.

The following table summarizes, by currency, the contractual amounts of the
company's forward exchange contracts.

December 31 (dollars in thousands)          2000                 1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           Buy              Sell            Buy           Sell
                       -----------      ------------    ----------     -------

  U.S. dollar          $    1,840       $  12,400       $   1,400      $ 8,100
  British pound             1,515           1,532             477        1,391
  Hungarian forint          3,135               -               -            -
  Mexican peso             64,901               -          35,516            -
                        ---------        --------        --------       ------
        Total          $   71,391       $  13,932       $  37,393      $ 9,491
                        =========          ======        ========       ======


1.  Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The forward contracts in place at December 31, 2000, amounted to approximately
75 percent of the company's 2001 anticipated foreign currency requirements.

Revenue recognition. The company recognizes revenue upon transfer of title of
product, generally upon shipment to the customer.

Compensated absences. In the second quarter, the company changed its vacation
policy for certain employees so that vacation pay is earned ratably throughout
the year. The accrual for compensated absences was reduced by $2.3 million to
eliminate vacation pay no longer required to be accrued under the current
policy.

Research and development. Research and development costs are charged to
operations as incurred and amounted to $24.5, $23.9, and $19.4 million for
continuing operations during 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

Environmental costs. The company accrues for losses associated with
environmental obligations when such losses are probable and reasonably
estimable. Costs of estimated future expenditures are not discounted to their
present value. Recoveries of environmental costs from other parties are recorded
as assets when their receipt is considered probable. The accruals are adjusted
as facts and circumstances change.

Earnings per share of common stock. The numerator for the calculation of basic
and diluted earnings per share is net earnings. The following table sets forth
the computation of basic and diluted weighted-average shares used in the
earnings per share calculations:

                                                  2000       1999       1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Denominator for basic earnings per share--
   weighted-average shares                      23,396,210 23,220,813 23,583,790
Effect of dilutive stock options                   294,932    566,540    600,114
                                                ---------- ---------- ----------
Denominator for diluted earnings per share      23,691,142 23,787,353 24,183,904
                                                ========== ========== ==========

Reclassification. Certain amounts in the 1999 and 1998 financial statements, as
previously reported, have been reclassified to conform to the 2000 presentation.
Sales and cost of products sold have been increased to reflect a
reclassification of gross freight costs. In addition, product research and
development expenses have been reclassified from cost of products sold to
selling, general, and administrative expenses.

New accounting standards. In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" (the Statement), which was amended by SFAS No. 138. This new
standard became effective for the company on January 1, 2001, and will require
the company to recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at fair value. Any
fair value changes will be recorded in net income or comprehensive income.

The initial adoption of this statement will not have a material effect on the
company's net earnings or statement of position.


2.  Acquisitions

On August 2, 1999, the company acquired the assets of MagneTek, Inc.'s
(MagneTek) domestic electric motor business and six wholly owned foreign
subsidiaries for $244.6 million. On July 1, 1998, the company acquired certain
assets of General Electric Company's domestic compressor motor business
(Scottsville) for $125.6 million. Both of the acquisitions were accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, the financial
statements include the operating results of the acquired businesses from their
respective dates of acquisition. The purchase prices have been allocated to the
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair
values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase prices over the
fair values of net assets acquired, $104.3 and $92.6 million for MagneTek and
Scottsville, respectively, have been recorded as goodwill. Other intangibles
acquired in connection with the MagneTek and Scottsville acquisitions, including
assembled workforce, customer list, patents, and trademarks, were assigned fair
values aggregating $11.4 million and are being amortized over periods of 5 to 30
years.

In connection with the MagneTek acquisition, additional purchase liabilities of
$17.9 million were recorded which included employee severance and relocation, as
well as certain facility exit costs. Costs incurred and charged against the
liability to date totaled $3.6 million. The company estimates that approximately
$10.0 million of the reserved liability will be expended during fiscal 2001.

The company purchased its partner's interest in its water systems joint venture
in China December 1998. The excess of the consideration, including the
distribution to the partner of certain inventories and equipment over the fair
values of the assets acquired, amounted to $5.3 million and has been recorded as
goodwill.

On a pro forma basis, the unaudited consolidated results from continuing
operations assuming the acquisition of MagneTek occurred on January 1, 1999,
follows:

Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands)               1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                              $1,306,566
Earnings                                                   42,379
Earnings per share:
  Basic 1.83
  Diluted                                                    1.78

The pro forma results have been prepared for informational purposes only and
include adjustments to depreciation expense of acquired plant and equipment,
amortization of goodwill, increased interest expense on acquisition debt, and
certain other adjustments, together with related income tax effects of all such
adjustments. Anticipated efficiencies from the consolidation of certain
manufacturing and commercial activities and anticipated lower material costs
related to the consolidation of purchasing have been excluded from the pro forma
operating results. These pro forma results do not purport to be indicative of
the results of operations that would have occurred had the purchases been made
as of the beginning of the periods presented or of the results of operations
that may occur in the future.

3.  Divestitures and Discontinued Operations

On January 17, 2000, the company, with the approval of its Board of Directors,
decided to divest the company's fiberglass piping and liquid and dry bulk
storage businesses. Net sales of the fiberglass piping and liquid and dry
storage businesses were $129.3, $118.6, and $144.0 million in fiscal 2000, 1999,
and 1998, respectively.



3.  Divestitures and Discontinued Operations (continued)

On December 8, 2000, the company sold the fiberglass piping business, operated
as Smith Fiberglass Products Company. The transaction took the form of the sale
of the majority of the fiberglass piping domestic assets, and the sale of the
company's equity interest in its China operations. In addition, the company sold
its Engineered Storage Products Company on January 10, 2001. Both transactions
are subject to final purchase price adjustments. When finalized, the after-tax
cash proceeds are expected to approximate $62 million. The company recognized a
combined after-tax loss on the sales of approximately $7.9 million (net of tax
benefit of $5.2 million) in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 1999, the company recognized
after-tax loss from operations of $0.9 million (net of a tax benefit of $0.5
million) and an after-tax loss on sale of $7.0 million (net of tax benefit of
$4.5 million). Discontinued after tax earnings from operations were $3.8 million
in 1998 (net of income taxes of $2.0 million). Certain expenses have been
allocated to the operations of the discontinued businesses, including interest
expense, which was allocated based on the ratio of net assets of the
discontinued businesses to the total consolidated capital of the company.

During 2000, the company recorded after-tax charges of $4.0 million (net of tax
benefit of $2.6 million) relating to revised estimates on certain reserves and
settlement of claims which arose out of the sale of its automotive business in
April 1997.

The components of the net assets of discontinued operations included in the
consolidated balance sheets are as follows:

December 31 (dollars in thousands)                     2000            1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current Assets
  Receivables                                    $    25,915      $    23,644
  Inventories                                          4,138           11,636
  Other current assets                                 8,737            5,048
  Trade payables                                      (3,090)          (6,410)
  Accrued payroll and benefits                        (2,908)          (5,410)
  Other                                              (10,141)         (18,103)
                                                    --------        ----------
Net current assets                               $    22,651      $    10,405
                                                  ==========       ==========

Long-Term Assets
  Net property, plant, and equipment             $    18,266      $    47,376
  Other assets                                         5,130           14,724
  Long-term liabilities                               (5,903)         (10,309)
                                                  -----------      ----------
Net long-term assets                             $    17,493      $    51,791
                                                  ==========       ==========

4.  Statement of Cash Flows

Supplemental cash flow information is as follows:



5.   Inventories

December 31 (dollars in thousands)                     2000             1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Finished products                                $   109,702      $    99,335
Work in process                                       37,186           40,197
Raw materials                                         40,191           41,997
Supplies                                                 860            1,322
                                                  ----------       ----------
Inventories, at FIFO cost                            187,939          182,851
Allowance to state inventories at LIFO cost           18,309           19,408
                                                  ----------       ----------
                                                 $   169,630      $   163,443
                                                  ==========       ==========
6.   Property, Plant, and Equipment

December 31 (dollars in thousands)                     2000             1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land    $                                              6,690         $  6,690
Buildings                                             99,888           91,417
Equipment                                            435,440          420,634
                                                  ----------       ----------
                                                     542,018          518,741
Less accumulated depreciation                        259,183          235,248
                                                  ----------       ----------
                                                 $   282,835      $   283,493
                                                  ==========       ==========

In 2000 and 1999, there was no capitalized interest on borrowed funds during
construction within the company's continuing operations. Capitalized interest
was $1.5 million in 1998.

7.   Long-Term Debt and Lease Commitments

The company has a $350 million revolving credit agreement with a group of nine
banks of which $100 million expires July 27, 2001, and $250 million expires
August 2, 2004. At its option, the company maintains either cash balances or
pays fees for bank credit and services.

The company's credit agreement and term notes contain certain conditions and
provisions which restrict the company's payment of dividends. Under the most
restrictive of these provisions, retained earnings of $62.3 million were
unrestricted as of December 31, 2000.


7.   Long-Term Debt and Lease Commitments (continued)

Borrowings under the bank credit lines and in the commercial paper market are
supported by the long-term portion of the revolving credit agreement, and
accordingly, such borrowings have been classified as long-term. It has been the
company's practice to renew or replace the revolving credit agreement so as to
maintain the availability of debt on a long-term basis and to provide 100
percent backup for its borrowings in the commercial paper market.

Long-term debt, maturing within each of the five years subsequent to December
31, 2000, is as follows: 2001-$11.1; 2002-$13.3; 2003-$11.7; 2004-$8.6;
2005-$8.6 million.

Future minimum payments under noncancelable operating leases for continuing
operations total $52.5 million and are due as follows: 2001-$10.3; 2002-$8.5;
2003-$7.8; 2004-$6.6; 2005-$4.8; and thereafter-$14.5 million. Rent expense for
continuing operations, including payments under operating leases, was $18.3,
$15.3, and $12.9 million in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

Interest paid by the company for continuing and discontinued operations, was
$24.6, $13.8, and $6.4 million in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

8.   Stockholders' Equity

The company's authorized capital consists of 3 million shares of Preferred Stock
$1 par value, 14 million shares of Class A Common Stock $5 par value, and 60
million shares of Common Stock $1 par value. The Common Stock has equal dividend
rights with Class A Common Stock and is entitled, as a class, to elect 25
percent of the board of directors and has 1/10th vote per share on all other
matters.

During 2000, 1999, and 1998, 200, 14,655, and 19,914 shares, respectively, of
Class A Common Stock were converted into Common Stock. Regular dividends paid on
the Class A Common and Common Stock amounted to $.50, $.48, and $.47 per share
in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

On January 27, 1997, the company's board of directors approved the repurchase of
up to 3 million shares of Common Stock. On June 10, 1997, and December 9, 1997,
the board authorized the repurchase of up to $80 million and $50 million,
respectively, of additional Common Stock. During 1999 and 1998, the company
purchased 855 and 4,800 shares of Class A Common Stock and 128,396 and 1,183,650
shares of Common Stock, respectively. At December 31, 2000, 32,595 and 8,967,312
shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, respectively, were held as
treasury stock. At December 31, 1999, 32,595 and 9,122,640 shares of Class A
Common Stock and Common Stock, respectively, were held as treasury stock.

9.   Stock Options

The company has two Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plans for
granting nonqualified and incentive stock options to key employees. The 1990
Plan has terminated except as to outstanding options. The 1999 Plan provides for
the issuance of 1.5 million stock options at fair value on the date of grant.
The options granted become exercisable one year from date of grant and, for
active employees, expire ten years after date of grant. The number of shares
available for granting of options at December 31, 2000, was 638,300.



9. Stock Options (continued)

Changes in option shares, all of which are Common Stock, were as follows:


During 1998, an executive elected to defer the gain related to the exercise of
107,100 options. As a result, the executive deferred the receipt of 79,870
shares of Common Stock for which the company's obligation to issue the shares is
included within Stockholders' Equity.

The following table summarizes weighted-average information by range of exercise
prices for stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2000:


SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," encourages, but does
not require companies to record compensation cost for stock-based employee
compensation plans at fair value. The company has chosen to continue applying
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for its stock option
plans. Accordingly, because the number of shares is fixed and the exercise price
of the stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date
of grant, no compensation expense has been recognized.


9. Stock Options (continued)

Had compensation cost been determined based upon the fair value at the grant
date for awards under the plans based on the provisions of SFAS No. 123, the
company's pro forma earnings and earnings per share from continuing operations
would have been as follows:

Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands,
 except per share amounts)                         2000      1999      1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings:
    As reported                               $  41,656  $ 50,270  $ 40,656
    Pro forma                                    40,330    49,311    39,839
Earnings per share:
    As reported:
        Basic                                 $    1.78     $2.17     $1.73
        Diluted                                    1.76      2.11      1.68
    Pro forma:
        Basic                                      1.72      2.12      1.69
        Diluted                                    1.70      2.07      1.65


The weighted-average fair value per option at the date of grant during 2000,
1999, and 1998 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, was $4.73, $9.58,
and $5.30, respectively. Assumptions were as follows:

                                                   2000      1999      1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Expected life (years)                               5.0       4.0       4.0
Risk-free interest rate                             5.0%      6.5%      4.6%
Dividend yield                                      2.2%      2.1%      2.1%
Expected volatility                                39.9%     38.6%     35.2%


10.  Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits

The company provides retirement benefits for all United States employees. Plan
assets consist primarily of marketable equities and debt securities. The company
also has several foreign pension plans, none of which are material to the
company's financial position. In addition, the company has several unfunded
defined benefit post-retirement plans covering certain hourly and salaried
employees which provide medical and life insurance benefits from retirement to
age 65.

The following tables present the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets,
funded status, and major assumptions used to determine these amounts for
domestic pension and post-retirement plans and components of net periodic
benefit costs including amounts for discontinued operations.




10.  Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits (continued)


Net periodic benefit cost is determined using the assumptions as of the
beginning of the year. The funded status is determined using the assumptions as
of the end of the year.

The company has a defined contribution profit sharing and retirement plan
covering the majority of its salaried nonunion employees which provides for
annual company contributions of 35 percent to 140 percent of qualifying
contributions made by participating employees. The amount of the company's
contribution in excess of 35 percent is dependent upon the company's
profitability. In connection with the acquisition of MagneTek, the company
established a defined contribution plan that provides for matching company
contributions of 2 percent of the first 6 percent of qualified employee
contributions up to an annual maximum contribution that is consistent with the
plan provided by the previous employer.

The company does not provide post-retirement health care benefits beyond age 65.
Certain hourly employees retiring after January 1, 1996, are subject to a
maximum annual benefit and salaried employees hired after December 31, 1993, are
not eligible for post-retirement medical benefits. As a result, a one percentage
point change in the health care cost trend rate would not have a significant
effect on the amounts reported. The post-retirement benefit obligation was
determined using an assumed healthcare cost trend rate of 10 percent in 2000
trending down to 6 percent in 2004 and thereafter.

Accrued post-retirement benefit cost is included in the consolidated balance
sheet in the accounts shown below:

December 31 (dollars in thousands)                   2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liabilities                              $  1,687        $  1,631
Post-retirement benefit obligation                 18,012          18,523
                                                  -------         -------
Accrued post-retirement benefit cost             $ 19,699        $ 20,154
                                                  =======         =======


11.   Income Taxes

The components of the provision for income taxes for continuing operations
consisted of the following:

Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands)      2000      1999       1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:
   Federal                                     $   3,964  $ 11,810   $ 14,286
   State                                             428     2,399      1,330
   International                                   3,581     1,339        718
Deferred                                          15,459    11,274      6,855
                                                --------   -------    -------

                                               $  23,432  $ 26,822   $ 23,189
                                                ========   =======    =======

The provision for income taxes for continuing operations differs from the U.S.
federal statutory rate due to the following items:

Years ended December 31                             2000      1999       1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision at U.S. federal statutory rate            35.0%     35.0%      35.0%
International income tax rate differential          (1.1)     (1.8)      (1.0)
State income and franchise taxes                     3.0       3.6        2.3
Research tax credits                                (0.1)     (1.8)      (1.1)
Other                                               (0.8)     (0.2)      (0.5)
                                                    ----      ----       ----

                                                    36.0%     34.8%      34.7%
                                                    ====      ====       ====

Components of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes were as
follows:

Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands)      2000      1999       1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States                                  $  57,845  $ 76,201   $ 62,449
International                                      7,243       891      4,472
                                                --------   -------    -------

                                               $  65,088  $ 77,092   $ 66,921
                                                ========   =======    =======

Total taxes paid by the company for continuing and discontinued operations
amounted to $13.1, $11.6, and $6.5 million in 2000, 1999, and 1998,
respectively.

No provision for U.S. income taxes or foreign taxes has been made on the
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as such earnings are considered
to be permanently invested. At December 31, 2000, the undistributed earnings
amounted to $36.6 million. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred
tax liability on the undistributed earnings is not practicable. In addition, no
provision or benefit for U. S. income taxes have been made on foreign currency
translation gains or losses.


11.  Income Taxes (continued)

The tax effects of temporary differences of assets and liabilities between
income tax and financial reporting for continuing operations are as follows:

December 31 (dollars in thousands)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2000                       1999
                                   ---------------------   ---------------------
                                    Assets   Liabilities    Assets   Liabilities
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Employee benefits                 $  19,261    $  33,791    $ 17,365  $  26,895
Product liability and warranty       11,814            -      10,107          -
Receivables                               -        4,697       1,022          -
Depreciation differences                  -       27,781           -     25,252
Amortization differences                  -       13,094           -      7,151
All other                                 -        6,619           -      6,548
                                   --------     --------     -------   --------

                                  $  31,075    $  85,982    $ 28,494  $  65,846
                                   ========     ========     =======   ========

Net liability                                  $  54,907              $  37,352
                                                ========               ========

These deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified in the balance sheet as
current or long-term based on the balance sheet classification of the related
assets and liabilities as follows:

December 31 (dollars in thousands)                     2000              1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current deferred income tax assets                 $   7,215       $   11,323
Long-term deferred income tax liabilities            (62,122)         (48,675)
                                                    ---------       ---------

Net liability                                      $  54,907       $   37,352
                                                    ========        =========

12.   Litigation and Insurance Matters

The company is involved in various unresolved legal actions, administrative
proceedings, and claims in the ordinary course of its business involving product
liability, property damage, insurance coverage, patents, and environmental
matters including the disposal of hazardous waste. Although it is not possible
to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the
range of possible loss or recovery, the company believes these unresolved legal
actions will not have a material effect on its financial position or results of
operations. The following paragraphs summarize noteworthy actions and
proceedings.

On July 16, 1999, a class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District
Court, Western District of Missouri, by individuals on behalf of themselves and
all persons throughout the United States who have owned or currently own a water
heater manufactured by Rheem Manufacturing Company, A. O. Smith Corporation,
Bradford White Company, American Water Heater Company, Lochinvar Corporation,
and State Industries, Inc. (the "water heater manufacturers") that contains a
dip tube manufactured, designed, supplied, or sold by Perfection Corporation
between August 1993 and October 1996. A dip tube is a plastic tube in a
residential water heater that brings the cold water supply to the bottom area of
the tank to be heated.



12.   Litigation and Insurance Matters (continued)

The plaintiffs and defendants reached a settlement of the claims of this
litigation. On November 22, 1999, the United States District Court, Western
District of Missouri, entered an order giving preliminary approval to the
settlement. On May 1, 2000, the District Court, which oversees the dip tube
class action, gave final approval to the settlement. The final order approved
the remedial system provided for in the settlement agreement. The water heater
manufacturers are currently funding settlement claims and employ a third-party
to administer the processing of claims. The deadline for filing claims under the
class action settlement agreement was December 31, 2000. All other legal actions
brought against the water heater manufacturers respecting dip tube claims have
been dismissed as a result of the settlement of the class action.

Separately, the water heater manufacturers on September 29, 1999, filed a direct
action lawsuit in the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of
Louisiana, against Perfection Corporation and American Meter Company, the parent
company of Perfection, and their insurers. This lawsuit seeks (1) recovery of
damages sustained by the water heater manufacturers related to the costs of the
class action settlement and the handling of dip tube claims outside of and prior
to the national class action settlement, (2) damages for the liability of the
water heater manufacturers assumed by Perfection Corporation by contract, and
(3) personal injuries suffered by the water heater manufacturers as a result of
the disparagement of their businesses. Also relating to the water heater
manufacturers' recovery efforts, the insurers of Perfection Corporation have
brought third-party claims against the water heater manufacturers in a state
court action in Cook County, Illinois. Perfection Corporation has also sued the
water heater manufacturers in a separate action in Cook County, Illinois. The
filing by Perfection Corporation is an attempt to preempt the Louisiana lawsuit.

As of December 31, 2000, the company has funded approximately $14.4 million
related to dip tube repair claims, administrative costs, legal fees and related
expenses. It is the company's expectation that all or a substantial portion of
its costs will be recovered from the insurers of Perfection and American Meter
Company, as well as the company's insurers.

The company is currently involved as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") in
judicial and administrative proceedings initiated on behalf of various state and
federal regulatory agencies seeking to clean up 13 sites which have been
environmentally impacted and to recover costs they have incurred or will incur
as to those sites. The company has also been designated a PRP with respect to a
former mine in Colorado which is being environmentally remediated by the U.S.
EPA. The U.S. EPA commenced a lawsuit against a former owner of a mining company
involved at the site, and that former owner commenced a third-party action
against the company and other parties for contribution. In the first quarter of
2001, the U.S. EPA and the former owner settled their respective claims against
each other, and upon final approval of the settlement, both parties will dismiss
their claims against each other. However, the former owner indicated he intends
to continue to pursue his contribution claim against the company. Following
notice of that settlement, the State of Colorado gave notice that it intends to
commence a legal action against the company to recover the remediation and
oversight costs it incurred at the site. The U.S. EPA has indicated that it does
not intend to pursue any claims against the company with respect to this site.
The company believes it has very good defenses to the claims of the former owner
and any potential claims that may be brought by the State of Colorado.

It is impossible at this time to estimate the total cost of remediation for the
sites or the company's ultimate share of those costs, primarily because the
sites are in various stages of the remediation process and issues remain open at
many sites concerning the selection and implementation of the final remedy, the
cost of that remedy, and the company's liability at a site relative to the
liability and viability of the other PRPs.


12.   Litigation and Insurance Matters (continued)

The company has established reserves for these sites in a manner that is
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles for costs associated
with such cleanups when those costs are capable of being reasonably estimated.
To the best of the company's knowledge, the reserves it has established and
insurance proceeds that are available to the company are sufficient to cover the
company's liability. The company further believes its insurers have the
financial ability to pay any such covered claims, and there are viable PRPs at
each of the sites which have the financial ability to pay their respective
shares of liability at the sites.

With respect to non-environmental claims, the company has self-insured a portion
of its product liability loss exposure and other business risks for many years.
The company has established reserves which it believes are adequate to cover
incurred claims. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the company had $75
million of third-party product liability insurance for individual losses in
excess of $1.5 million and for aggregate annual losses in excess of $10 million.
The company reevaluates its exposure on claims periodically and makes
adjustments to its reserves as appropriate.

13.  Operations by Segment

The company has two reportable segments: Electric Motor Technologies and Water
Systems Technologies. The Electric Motor Technologies segment manufactures
fractional and integral Alternating Current (A/C) and Direct Current (D/C)
motors used in fans and blowers in furnaces, air conditioners, and ventilating
systems; industrial applications such as material handling; as well as in other
consumer products such as home appliances and jet pump motors sold to
manufacturers of home water systems, swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas. In
addition, the Electric Motor Technologies segment manufactures hermetic motors
which are sold worldwide to manufacturers of compressors used in air
conditioning and refrigeration systems. The Water Systems Technologies segment
manufactures residential gas and electric water heaters as well as commercial
water heating equipment used in a wide range of applications including hotels,
laundries, car washes, factories, and large institutions. In addition, the Water
Systems Technologies segment manufactures copper tube boilers used in
large-volume hot water and hydronic heating applications.

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those
described in the "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" outlined in Note
1. Intersegment sales have been excluded from segment revenues and are
immaterial. Earnings before interest and taxes is used to measure the
performance of the segments and allocate resources.



13.  Operations by Segment (continued)

Net sales of the Electric Motor Technologies segment includes sales to York
International Corporation of $182.9, $191.3, and $131.8 million in 2000, 1999,
and 1998, respectively.

Assets, depreciation, and capital expenditures by segment


Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, deferred taxes,
and prepaid pension.


13.  Operations by Segment (continued)

Net sales and long-lived assets by geographic location

The following data by geographic area includes net sales based on product
shipment destination and long-lived assets based on physical location.
Long-lived assets include net property, plant, equipment, prepaid pension, and
other long-term assets and exclude intangible assets and long-lived assets of
discontinued operations.

14.  Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

Net earnings and dividends declared per share are computed separately for each
period and, therefore, the sum of such quarterly per share amounts may differ
from the total for the year.

See Note 7 for restrictions on the payment of dividends.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information included under the heading "Election of Directors" in the
company's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
(to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year) is incorporated
herein by reference. The information required regarding Executive Officers of
the company is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive
Officers of the company."

The information included under the heading "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act" in the company's definitive Proxy Statement for the
2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the
registrant's fiscal year) is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information included under the heading "Executive Compensation" in the
company's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
(to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year) is incorporated
herein by reference, except for the information required by paragraphs (i), (k),
and (l) of Item 402(a)(8) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information included under the headings "Principal Stockholders" and
"Security Ownership of Directors and Management" in the company's definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days
after the end of the registrant's fiscal year) is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information included under the headings and "Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation" in the company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after
the end of the registrant's fiscal year) is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES and REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

  (a)  Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules
                                                                      Form 10-K
                                                                     Page Number
                                                                     -----------
       The following consolidated financial statements of
       A. O. Smith Corporation are included in Item 8:

       Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999......    16
       For each of the three years in the period ended
       December 31, 2000:
        - Consolidated Statement of Earnings..........................    17
        - Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income..............    17
        - Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows........................    18
        - Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity..............    19
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      20-36


       The following consolidated financial statement schedule of
       A. O. Smith Corporation is included in Item 14(d):

       Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts................    39

All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or
because the information required is included in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto.

      (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of 2000.

      (c)  Exhibits - see the Index to Exhibits on pages 44-45 of this report.

Pursuant to the requirements of Rule 14a-3(b)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, the company will, upon request and upon payment of a
reasonable fee not to exceed the rate at which such copies are available from
the Securities and Exchange Commission, furnish copies to its security holders
of any exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits.

Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be
filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K are listed as Exhibits
10(a) through 10(h) in the Index to Exhibits.




                             A. O. SMITH CORPORATION

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                  (000 Omitted)

                  Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998



1Provision (credit) based upon estimated collection.
2Uncollectible amounts/expenditures charged against the reserve.



For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form
S-8 (effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned
registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be incorporated
by reference into registrant's Registration Statements on Form S-8 Nos. 2-72542
filed on May 26, 1981, Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, filed on May 12, 1983,
Post-Effective Amendment No. 2, filed on December 22, 1983, Post-Effective
Amendment No. 3, filed on March 30, 1987; 33-19015 filed on December 11, 1987;
33-21356 filed on April 21, 1988; Form S-8 No. 33-37878 filed November 16, 1990;
Form S-8 No. 33-56827 filed December 13, 1994; Form S-8 No. 333-05799 filed June
12, 1996, and 333-92329 filed December 8, 1999.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on behalf
of the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         A. O. SMITH CORPORATION

                                        By: /s/ Robert J. O'Toole
                                          -------------------------------
                                          Robert J. O'Toole
                                          Chief Executive Officer

                                         Date:  February 20, 2001

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below as of February 20, 2001 by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Name and Title                                              Signature

ROBERT J. O'TOOLE                                   /s/ Robert J. O'Toole
Chairman of the Board of                                Robert J. O'Toole
Directors, President and
Chief Executive Officer

KENNETH W. KRUEGER                                  /s/ Kenneth W. Krueger
Senior Vice President and                               Kenneth W. Krueger
Chief Financial Officer

GLEN R. BOMBERGER                                   /s/ Glen R. Bomberger
Director and Executive Vice President                   Glen R. Bomberger

JOHN J. KITA                                        /s/ John J. Kita
Vice President, Treasurer and Controller                John J. Kita

TOM H. BARRETT                                      /s/ Tom H. Barrett
Director                                                Tom H. Barrett

WILLIAM F. BUEHLER                                  /s/ William F. Buehler
Director                                                William F. Buehler

KATHLEEN J. HEMPEL                                  /s/ Kathleen J. Hempel
Director                                                Kathleen J. Hempel

AGNAR PYTTE                                         /s/ Agnar Pytte
Director                                                Agnar Pytte

ARTHUR O. SMITH                                     /s/ Arthur O. Smith
Director                                                Arthur O. Smith

BRUCE M. SMITH                                      /s/ Bruce M. Smith
Director                                                Bruce M. Smith

W. MICHAEL BARNES                                   /s/ W. Michael Barnes
Director                                                W. Michael Barnes



                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
Exhibit
Number    Description

(3)(i)    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation as amended
          April 5, 1995 incorporated by reference to the quarterly report on
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995 and as further amended
          on February 5, 1996 and incorporated by reference to the annual report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995

(3)(ii)   By-laws of the corporation as amended October 7, 1997 incorporated by
          reference to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          September 30, 1997

(4)       (a) The corporation's outstanding long-term debt is described in Note
          7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. None of the long-term debt
          is registered under the Securities Act of 1933. None of the debt
          instruments outstanding at the date of this report exceeds 10 percent
          of the corporation's total consolidated assets, except for the item
          disclosed as exhibit 4(b) below. The corporation agrees to furnish to
          the Securities & Exchange Commission, upon request, copies of any
          instruments defining rights of holders of long-term debt described in
          Note 7.

          (b) Credit Agreement dated as of August 2, 1999

          (c) 364 Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 2, 1999

          (d) A. O. Smith Corporation Restated Certificate of Incorporation as
          amended April 5, 1995 [incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(i)
          above]

(10)      Material Contracts

          (a) 1990 Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended,
          incorporated by reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement filed
          by the corporation on December 13, 1994, (Reg. No. 33-56827)

          (b) Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan incorporated by
          reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement filed by the
          corporation on December 8, 1999, (Reg. No. 333-92329)

          (c) Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit A to the Proxy Statement dated April 21, 1997 for
          a May 21, 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders

          (d) Supplemental Benefit Plan, as amended, incorporated by reference
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1992

          (e) Executive Life Insurance Plan, incorporated by reference to the
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992

          (f) Corporate Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended,
          incorporated by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended December 31, 1992


INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)
- -----------------

Exhibit
Number    Description

(21)      Subsidiaries [Page 40]

(23)      Consent of Independent Auditors [Page 41]




