
10-K



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                           Washington, D. C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1996
                        Commission File Number 1-3761

                         TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
            -----------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                            75-0289970      
      ------------------------       ------------------------------------
      (State of Incorporation)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

   13500 North Central Expressway, P.O. Box 655474, Dallas, Texas, 75265-5474
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code 972-995-3773

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange on
Title of each class                                     which registered
- -----------------------------                        ------------------------
Common Stock, par value $1.00                        New York Stock Exchange
                                                     London Stock Exchange
                                                     Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                                     The Swiss Exchange 
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                      New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.X

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
Registrant was approximately $14,825,000,000 as of January 31, 1997.

                                  190,411,694
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 1997)

Parts I, II and IV hereof incorporate information by reference to the 
Registrant's 1996 annual report to stockholders.  Part III hereof incorporates 
information by reference to the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1997 
annual meeting of stockholders. 







                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   Business. 

General
- -------
          Texas Instruments Incorporated (hereinafter the "Registrant," 
including subsidiaries except where the context indicates otherwise) is one of
the world's foremost high technology companies, with sales or manufacturing 
operations in more than 30 countries.  The Registrant is engaged in the 
development, manufacture, and sale of a variety of products in the commercial 
electronics and electrical industry primarily for industrial and consumer 
markets.  These products consist of components, digital products and 
metallurgical materials.  In addition, the Registrant's patent portfolio has 
been established as an ongoing contributor to the Registrant's revenues.  The 
Registrant's business is based principally on its broad semiconductor 
technology and application of this technology to digital solutions for the 
networked society.  The Registrant from time to time considers acquisitions 
and divestitures which may alter its business mix.  The Registrant may effect 
one or more such transactions at such time or times as the Registrant 
determines to be appropriate. As discussed below, the Registrant and Raytheon 
Company ("Raytheon") entered into a definitive agreement as of January 4, 1997 
under which Raytheon will purchase the Registrant's defense systems and 
electronics business.  See "ITEM 1. Business, Discontinued Operations."

          The information with respect to net revenues, profit and 
identifiable assets of the Registrant's industry segments and operations 
outside the United States, which is contained in the note to the financial 
statements captioned "Industry Segment and Geographic Area Operations" on 
pages 28-30 of the Registrant's 1996 annual report to stockholders, is 
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.

Components
- ----------
          Components consist of semiconductor integrated circuits (such as 
digital signal processors, mixed-signal and analog circuits, microprocessors/ 
microcontrollers, applications processors, memories, and digital circuits), 
semiconductor discrete devices, semiconductor subassemblies (such as custom 
modules for specific applications), and electrical and electronic control 
devices (such as motor protectors, starting relays, circuit breakers, 
thermostats, sensors, and radio-frequency identification systems).

          These components are used in a broad range of products for 
industrial end-use (such as computers and peripheral equipment, 
telecommunications, instrumentation, and industrial motor controls and 
automation equipment), consumer end-use (such as cellular phones, modems, 
televisions, cameras, automobiles, home appliances, and residential air 
conditioning and heating systems), and government end-use (such as defense and 
space equipment).  The Registrant sells these components primarily to original 
equipment manufacturers principally through its own marketing organizations 
and to a lesser extent through distributors.















Digital Products
- ----------------
          Digital products include electronic calculators, software 
productivity tools, mobile computing products and other electronic systems. 
In 1996, the Registrant sold substantially all of its custom manufacturing 
services business and its printer business.  Subsequent to year-end 1996, the 
Registrant reached an agreement to sell its mobile computing business. Digital 
products are used in a broad range of enterprise-wide, work group and personal 
information-based applications.  The Registrant markets these products through 
various channels, including system suppliers, business equipment dealers, 
distributors, retailers, and direct sales to end-users and original equipment 
manufacturers.

Metallurgical Materials
- -----------------------
          Metallurgical materials include clad metals, precision-engineered 
parts and electronic connectors for use in a variety of applications such as 
appliances, automobiles, electronic components, and industrial and 
telecommunications equipment.  These metallurgical materials are primarily 
sold directly to original equipment manufacturers.

Discontinued Operations
- -----------------------
          The Registrant's defense systems and electronics business ("DSE") 
consists of radar systems, navigation systems, infrared surveillance and fire 
control systems, defense suppression missiles, other weapon systems (including 
antitank and interdiction weapons), missile guidance and control systems, 
electronic warfare systems, and other defense electronic equipment.  Sales are 
made to the U.S. government (either directly or through prime contractors) and 
to international customers approved by the U.S. government.

          The Registrant and Raytheon entered into a definitive agreement as 
of January 4, 1997 under which Raytheon will purchase DSE. In connection with 
the sale, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the 
Registrant has restated prior financial statements and financial information 
to segregate the results of DSE from detailed financial components.  As such, 
defense-related financial results are reported in the Registrant's 
consolidated financial statements on pages 18-21 of the Registrant's 1996 
annual report to stockholders as discontinued operations. Operating results, 
net asset and other information for discontinued operations appears in the 
note to the financial statements captioned Discontinued Operations; unless 
otherwise indicated, the financial amounts in this Form 10-K have been 
adjusted to reflect continuing operations only.

Competition
- -----------
          The Registrant is engaged in highly competitive businesses.  Its 
competitors include several of the largest companies in the United States, 
Asia, and elsewhere abroad as well as many small, specialized companies.  The 
Registrant is a significant competitor in each of its principal businesses.  
Generally, the Registrant's businesses are characterized by rapidly changing 
technology which has, throughout the Registrant's history, intensified the 
competitive factors, primarily performance and price. 

Backlog
- -------
          The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed by the Registrant to 
be firm was $1623 million as of December 31, 1996 and $2294 million as of 
December 31, 1995. The Registrant's backlog does not represent actual revenues 
and is only an indication of future revenues which may be entered on the books 
of account of the Registrant. Backlog orders are, under certain circumstances, 
subject to cancellation by the purchaser without penalty and generally do not 
reflect any potential adjustments for price decreases.



Raw Materials
- -------------
          The Registrant purchases materials, parts and supplies from a number 
of suppliers.  The Registrant's silicon materials operation became part of a 
joint venture with MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., in May 1995.  The 
Registrant retains a minority ownership interest in the joint venture.  The 
materials, parts and supplies essential to the Registrant's business are 
generally available at present and the Registrant believes at this time that 
such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable 
future.

Patents and Trademarks
- ----------------------
          The Registrant owns many patents in the United States and other 
countries in fields relating to its business.  The Registrant has developed a 
strong, broad-based patent portfolio.  The Registrant also has several 
agreements with other companies involving license rights and anticipates that 
other licenses may be negotiated in the future.  The Registrant does not 
consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent 
license, although taken as a whole, the rights of the Registrant and the 
products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to the 
Registrant's business.  As noted above, the Registrant's patent portfolio has 
been established as an ongoing contributor to the revenues of the Registrant.  
See "ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations."

          The Registrant owns trademarks that are used in the conduct of its 
business.  These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which 
are "Texas Instruments" and the Registrant's corporate monogram. 

Research and Development
- ------------------------
          The Registrant's research and development expense was $1181 million 
in 1996, compared with $842 million in 1995 and $578 million in 1994, and 
included a one-time charge in 1996 of $192 million for the value of acquired 
in-process research and development as a result of the acquisition of Silicon 
Systems, Inc. 

Seasonality
- -----------
          The Registrant's revenues are subject to some seasonal variation. 

Employees
- ---------
          The information concerning the number of persons employed by the 
Registrant, including persons employed in the Registrant's defense business, 
at December 31, 1996 on page 32 of the Registrant's 1996 annual report to 
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.


















ITEM 2.   Properties.

          The Registrant's principal offices are located at 13500 North 
Central Expressway, Dallas, Texas.  The Registrant owns and leases plants in 
the United States and 15 other countries for manufacturing and related 
purposes.  The following table indicates the general location of the principal 
plants of the Registrant and the industry segments which make major use of 
them.  Except as otherwise indicated, the principal plants are owned by the 
Registrant.



          The Registrant's facilities in the United States contained 
approximately 19,600,000 square feet as of December 31, 1996, of which 
approximately 5,400,000 square feet were leased.  The Registrant's facilities 
outside the United States contained approximately 7,000,000 square feet as of 
December 31, 1996, of which approximately 1,800,000 square feet were leased. 

          The Registrant believes that its existing properties are in good 
condition and suitable for the manufacture of its products.  At the end of 
1996, the Registrant utilized substantially all of the space in its 
facilities. 

          Leases covering the Registrant's leased facilities expire at varying 
dates generally within the next 10 years.  The Registrant anticipates no 
difficulty in either retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-
month occupancy or purchases of leased facilities, or replacing the leased 
facilities with equivalent facilities.
ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings.

         As indicated in the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
November 26, 1996, the Registrant reached agreement on a broad 10-year cross 
license agreement with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., of Korea, which settled 
all pending litigation between the companies, including the litigation 
discussed in ITEM 3 of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 1995 and ITEM 1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Reports 
on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and September 30, 1996.

          On July 19, 1991, the Registrant filed a lawsuit in Tokyo District 
Court against Fujitsu Limited of Japan ("Fujitsu") seeking injunctive relief, 
alleging that Fujitsu's manufacture and sale of certain DRAMs infringe the 
Registrant's Japanese patent on the invention of the integrated circuit (the 
"Kilby" patent).  Concurrently, Fujitsu brought a lawsuit in the same court 
against the Registrant, seeking a declaration that Fujitsu is not infringing 
the Kilby patent.  On August 31, 1994, the district court ruled that Fujitsu's 
production of 1-megabit and 4-megabit DRAMs and 32K EPROMs does not infringe 
the Kilby patent.  The Registrant has appealed the court's decision to the 
Tokyo High Court.

          The Registrant is involved in various investigations and proceedings 
conducted by the federal Environmental Protection Agency and certain state 
environmental agencies regarding disposal of waste materials.  Although the 
factual situations and the progress of each of these matters differ, the 
Registrant believes that the amount of its liability will not have a material 
adverse effect upon its financial position or results of operations and, in 
most cases, the Registrant's liability will be limited to sharing clean-up or 
other remedial costs with other potentially responsible parties.





































ITEM 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

          Not applicable.

                     Executive Officers of the Registrant

          The following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the 
executive officers of the Registrant and the positions or offices with the 
Registrant presently held by each person named: 

       Name                   Age                     Position

James R. Adams                57          Director; Chairman of the Board

Richard J. Agnich             53          Senior Vice President, Secretary
                                          and General Counsel

William A. Aylesworth         54          Senior Vice President,
                                          Treasurer and Chief Financial
                                          Officer (Chief Accounting 
                                          Officer)

Gary D. Clubb                 50          Executive Vice President
                                          (President, Digital Imaging)

Thomas J. Engibous            44          Director; President and 
                                          Chief Executive
                                          Officer 
                                          
David D. Martin               57          Executive Vice President

Charles F. Nielson            59          Vice President

Elwin L. Skiles, Jr.          55          Vice President

Richard K. Templeton          38          Executive Vice President 
                                          (President, Semiconductor Group)

William P. Weber              56          Director; Vice Chairman

David W. Welp                 56          Executive Vice President (President
                                          Systems Group and Defense Systems & 
                                          Electronics)

          The term of office of each of the above listed officers is from the 
date of his election until his successor shall have been elected and 
qualified.  Messrs. Adams, Engibous and Templeton were elected June 20, 1996 
and Mr. Welp was elected on September 19, 1996 to their respective offices of 
the Registrant; the most recent date of election of the other officers was 
April 18, 1996.  Mr. Adams, who has been a director of the Registrant since 
1989; was Group President of SBC Communications Inc. from 1992 until his 
retirement in 1995, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern 
Bell Telephone Company from 1988 to 1992.  Messrs. Agnich, Aylesworth, Martin, 
Nielson, Skiles and Weber have served as officers of the Registrant for more 
than five years.  Messrs. Clubb and Engibous have served as officers of the 
Registrant since 1993; and they and Messrs. Templeton and Welp have 
been employees of the Registrant for more than five years.









                                    PART II

ITEM 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
          Matters.

          The information which is contained in the note to the financial 
statements captioned "Common Stock Prices and Dividends" on page 35 of the 
Registrant's 1996 annual report to stockholders, and the information 
concerning the number of stockholders of record at December 31, 1996 on 
page 32 of such annual report, are incorporated herein by reference to such 
annual report. 

ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data.

          The "Summary of Selected Financial Data" for the years 1992 through 
1996 which appears on page 32 of the Registrant's 1996 annual report to 
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.

ITEM 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
          Results of Operations.

          The first two paragraphs of the Letter to the Stockholders on page 2 
of the Registrant's 1996 annual report to stockholders and the information 
contained under the caption "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 33-35 of such annual report are 
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.

ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

          The consolidated financial statements of the Registrant at 
December 31, 1996 and 1995 and for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1996 and the report thereon of the independent auditors, on pages 
18-31 of the Registrant's 1996 annual report to stockholders, are incorporated 
herein by reference to such annual report.

          The "Quarterly Financial Data" on page 35 of the Registrant's 1996 
annual report to stockholders is also incorporated herein by reference to such 
annual report.

ITEM 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
          Financial Disclosure.

          Not applicable.























                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

          The information with respect to directors' names, ages, positions, 
term of office and periods of service, which is contained under the caption 
"Nominees for Directorship" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1997 
annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such 
proxy statement.

          Information concerning executive officers is set forth in Part I 
hereof under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation.

          The information which is contained under the captions "Directors 
Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" in the Registrant's proxy statement 
for the 1997 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by 
reference to such proxy statement.

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

          The information concerning (a) the only persons that have reported 
beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the common stock of the Registrant, 
and (b) the ownership of the Registrant's common stock by the Chief Executive 
Officer and the four other most highly compensated executive officers, and all 
executive officers and directors as a group, which is contained under the 
caption "Voting Securities" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1997 
annual meeting of stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to such 
proxy statement.  The information concerning ownership of the Registrant's 
common stock by each of the directors, which is contained under the caption 
"Nominees for Directorship" in such proxy statement, is also incorporated 
herein by reference to such proxy statement.

          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the Registrant shown on the cover page hereof excludes the shares held by the 
Registrant's directors, some of whom disclaim affiliate status, executive vice 
presidents and senior vice presidents.  These holdings were considered to 
include shares credited to certain individuals' profit sharing accounts.

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

          Not applicable.























                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K. 

          (a)  1 and 2.  Financial Statements and Financial Statement 
                         Schedules:

          The financial statements and financial statement schedules are 
          listed in the index on page 16 hereof.

                     3.  Exhibits:







     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

The Registrant filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the 
quarter ended December 31, 1996 a Form 8-K dated November 26, 1996, which 
included a news release regarding the Registrant's patent license agreement 
with Samsung.

"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995:

          With the exception of historical information, the matters discussed 
or incorporated by reference in this Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking 
statements that involve risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, 
economic conditions, product demand and industry capacity, competitive 
products and pricing, manufacturing efficiencies, new product development, 
timely completion of announced asset sales, ability to enforce patents, 
availability of raw materials and critical manufacturing equipment, new plant 
startups, the regulatory and trade environment, and other risks indicated in 
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.















































SIGNATURE

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report 
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED



                                             By: /s/ WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH
                                                ------------------------------
                                                William A. Aylesworth
                                                Senior Vice President,
                                                Treasurer and Chief 
                                                Financial Officer
Date:  February 24, 1997

















































Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 24th day of February, 1997.

              Signature                                Title

          *JAMES R. ADAMS                  Chairman of the Board; Director
- ------------------------------------
           James R. Adams

          *DAVID L. BOREN                  Director
- ------------------------------------
           David L. Boren

          *JAMES B. BUSEY IV               Director
- ------------------------------------
          James B. Busey IV

         *THOMAS J. ENGIBOUS               President; Chief Executive Officer;
- ------------------------------------       Director
          Thomas J. Engibous

        *GERALD W. FRONTERHOUSE            Director
- ------------------------------------
        Gerald W. Fronterhouse

          *DAVID R. GOODE                  Director
- ------------------------------------
           David R. Goode

         *GLORIA M. SHATTO                 Director
- ------------------------------------
          Gloria M. Shatto

         *WILLIAM P. WEBER                 Vice Chairman; Director
- ------------------------------------
          William P. Weber

        *CLAYTON K. YEUTTER                Director
- ------------------------------------
         Clayton K. Yeutter

     /s/ WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH             Senior Vice President; Treasurer;
- ------------------------------------       Chief Financial Officer; Chief 
        William A. Aylesworth              Accounting Officer


*By:
    /s/ WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH
    -----------------------------
        William A. Aylesworth       
          Attorney-in-fact















                TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                 (Item 14(a))



     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is 
not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the 
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated 
financial statements or the notes thereto.















                                                                   Schedule II
                                                                   -----------

                TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                              ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES
                            (In Millions of Dollars)
                 Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994


Allowances for losses from uncollectible accounts, returns, etc., are deducted 
from accounts receivable in the balance sheet.





































                             EXHIBIT INDEX





