
10-K405
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K



                                NRG ENERGY, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)



                                 (612) 373-5300
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicated by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required
to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

                         Yes  X                No ____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulations S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

                         Yes  X                No ____

As of March 30, 2000, there were 1,000 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value,
outstanding, all of which were owned by Northern States Power Company. No other
voting or non-voting common equity is held by non-affiliates of the Registrant.

The Registrant meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I (1)(a)
and (b) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing this Form with the reduced
disclosure format. Documents Incorporated by Reference: None
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                       NRG ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                     INDEX




                                     PART I

ITEM 1 -- BUSINESS

GENERAL

     NRG Energy, Inc. (the Company) is a leading participant in the independent
power generation industry. Established in 1989 and wholly owned by Northern
States Power Company (NSP), the Company is principally engaged in the
acquisition, development, operations and maintenance of and ownership of power
generation facilities. The power generation facilities in which the Company had
interests (including those under construction) as of December 31, 1999, have a
total design capacity of 20,728 megawatts (MW), of which the Company has or will
have total or shared operational responsibility for 14,782 MW, and net ownership
of, or leasehold interests in 10,990 MW.

     The Company has experienced significant growth in the last year, expanding
from 3,300 MW of net ownership interests in power generation facilities
(including those under construction) as of December 31, 1998 to 10,990 MW of net
ownership interests as of December 31, 1999. This growth resulted primarily from
a number of domestic acquisitions, notably the acquisition from Niagara Mohawk
Power Corporation (NIMO) of the Huntley and Dunkirk generating stations in
upstate New York, the acquisition from Montaup Electric Company (MEC) of the
Somerset generating station in Massachusetts, the acquisition from San Diego Gas
and Electric Company of the Encina generating station and combustion turbines in
California, the acquisition from Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
(ConEd) of the Arthur Kill generating station and Astoria gas turbines in New
York City and the acquisition of the Middletown, Montville, Norwalk and Devon
generating stations in Connecticut from Connecticut Light & Power Company
(CL&P). The Company's total operating revenues and equity in earnings of
projects increased from $182.1 million and $81.7 million, respectively, in 1998
to $500.0 million and $67.5 million, respectively, in 1999.

     The Company expects this growth to continue. The Company intends to acquire
a 1,708 MW facility in Louisiana from Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc. as
part of its bankruptcy reorganization. The Company expects to acquire the 665 MW
Killingholme A generating station from National Power plc. The Killingholme A
generating station is a combined-cycle, gas turbine power station located in
England. The Company plans to acquire 1,875 MW of fossil-fueled electric
generating capacity and other assets from Conectiv of Wilmington, Delaware.
These assets will add an additional 4,248 MW of net ownership interests in power
generation facilities to the Company's existing portfolio. In addition, the
Company announced that it has executed a memorandum of understanding with GE
Power Systems, a division of General Electric Company, to purchase 11 gas
turbine generators and five steam turbine generators over the next five years.
The Company intends to install the 16 turbines, having a combined capacity of
3,000 MW, at certain of its existing North American plant sites.

     The Company's headquarters and principal executive offices are located at
1221 Nicollet Mall, Suite 700, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403. Its telephone
number is (612) 373-5300.

STRATEGY

     The Company intends to continue to grow through a combination of
acquisitions and development of power generation facilities and related assets
in the United States and abroad. The Company believes that its facility
operations and engineering expertise, fuel and environmental strategies, labor
and government relations expertise, legal and financial skills give us a
competitive advantage in the independent power market. The Company also believes
that its experience in meeting or exceeding applicable environmental regulatory
standards and our environmental compliance record will give us an advantage as
regulators continue to impose increasingly stringent environmental requirements
on the operation of power generation facilities. In addition, the Company
continues to have access to technical and administrative support from NSP on a
contract basis to augment its own expertise. The Company believes the knowledge
and expertise it has gained in the financial and legal restructuring of its
existing facilities, as well as our engineering expertise and reputation with
respect to environmental compliance and labor relations, can be effectively
employed in the development of both domestic and international greenfield
projects.


     In the United States, the Company's near-term focus will be primarily on
the acquisition of existing power generation facilities, particularly in
situations in which its expertise can be applied to improve the operating and
financial performance of the facilities. In connection with this focus, the
Company studies the opportunities that may be created by the current
restructuring of the domestic electric utility industry, particularly the
divestiture by some utility companies of their generating assets. In connection
with these utility company divestitures of generating assets, which may be held
by a purchasing subsidiary in many instances, the sellers require that we remain
directly liable for certain indemnity, operation, provision of replacement power
and/or debt payment obligations. The Company intends to focus our domestic
development activities primarily on the acquisition or development of facilities
in excess of 100 MW and to pursue smaller projects when we have the opportunity
to combine several smaller projects into a larger transaction. The Company is
also working with several industrial companies to develop energy projects that
would provide both electricity and steam for their production facilities. In
addition, to the extent that the replacement of aging power generating capacity
or growth in demand creates the need for new power generation facilities in the
United States, the Company intends to pursue opportunities to participate in the
development of such facilities.

     In the international market, the Company will continue to pursue greenfield
development and acquisition opportunities in those countries in which it
believes that the legal, political and economic environment is conducive to
increased foreign investment. Once the Company has developed one project in a
country it uses that as a base to develop other projects in that same country or
region, leveraging our experience and knowledge to enhance our likelihood of
success in the area. The Company intends to continue to capitalize on
opportunities created by the privatization of existing government-owned
generating capacity. In addition, due to the significant existing demand for new
power generating capacity in the international market, the Company intends to
engage in the development of international greenfield projects. The Company
intends to focus our international development activities primarily on the
acquisition or development of facilities with capacity in excess of 100 MW and
to pursue smaller projects when we have the opportunity to combine several
smaller projects into a larger transaction. The Company believes that the global
market will continue to provide attractive investment opportunities as the
countries that have initiated privatization of their power generation capacity
and have solicited bids from private companies to purchase existing facilities
or to develop new capacity continue their privatization programs and other
countries begin similar privatization efforts. Where appropriate, the Company
will include a local or host country partner. By doing so, the Company expects
to gain a number of advantages, including technical expertise possessed by
others, greater knowledge of and experience with the political, economic,
cultural and social conditions and commercial practices of the region or country
where the project is being developed, and the ability to leverage our human and
financial resources. A local partner also may, among other things, assist in
obtaining financing from local capital markets as well as building political and
community support for the project.



     The Company intends to pursue the acquisition and development of natural
gas-fired power generation facilities where appropriate to complement its
existing and anticipated future investments in coal and other solid fuel-fired
facilities. The Company currently holds no interest in, and has no present
intention of investing in, any nuclear generation facility.

RECENT EVENTS -- PROPOSED MERGER

     On March 24, 1999, NSP, and New Century Energies, Inc., a Delaware
corporation (NCE), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger
Agreement) providing for a strategic business combination of NCE and NSP to
merge and form Xcel Energy. At the time of the merger, each share of NCE common
stock, will be converted into the right to receive 1.55 shares of Xcel common
stock. NSP shares need not be exchanged and will become Xcel Energy shares on a
one-for-one basis. Cash will be paid in lieu of any fractional shares of Xcel
common stock.

     The merger requires approval or regulatory review by certain state
utilities regulators, the SEC, the FERC, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and
the Federal Communication Commission and expiration or termination of the
waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act (H-S-R).
During June 1999, shareholders of both NSP and NCE approved the merger. The
waiting period under H-S-R expired in March 2000. The FERC approved the merger
in January 2000. The states of Kansas, Colorado and Arizona have approved the
merger. Merger approval is not required in Michigan, Oklahoma, South Dakota or
Wisconsin. Merger applications with regulators are pending in Minnesota, New
Mexico, North Dakota, Wyoming and Texas, and at the SEC. While the Company
cannot guarantee the timing or receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals,
the Company expects the merger to be completed by the middle of 2000.

     The merger is expected to be a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange for
shareholders of both companies (except for fractional shares) and to be
accounted for as a pooling of interests. NSP and NCE have agreed to certain
undertakings and limitations regarding the conduct of their businesses prior to
the closing of the transaction. At the time of the merger, Xcel Energy will
register as a holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935.

SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES IN 1999

     In February 1999, the Company purchased from Thermal Ventures, Inc. (TVI)
the remaining 50.1% limited partnership interests held by TVI in San Francisco
Thermal Limited Partnership and Pittsburgh Thermal Limited Partnership for $12.3
million. In April 1999, the Company acquired TVI's 50% member interest in North
American Thermal Systems LLC (the entity holding the general partnership
interest in the San Francisco and Pittsburgh partnerships) for $500,000.

     In 1994, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, purchased a 50%
ownership interest in Sunnyside Cogeneration Associates, a Utah joint venture,
which owns and operates a 58 MW waste coal plant in Utah. The waste coal plant
is currently being operated by a partnership that is 50% owned by a Company
affiliate. In March 1999, the Company and its partner executed an agreement to
sell the Sunnyside project to an affiliate of Baltimore Gas & Electric for a
purchase price of $2.0 million. There was no gain or loss on the sale which
closed during the second quarter of 1999.

     In April 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of the Somerset power
station for approximately $55 million from the Eastern Utilities Association
(EUA). The Somerset station, located in Somerset, Massachusetts, includes two
coal-fired generating facilities and two aeroderivative combustion turbine
peaking units with a capacity rating of 160 MW, excludes 69 MW on deactivated
reserve. In connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into a
Wholesale Standard Offer Service Agreement pursuant to which the Company is
obligated to provide approximately 30% of the energy and capacity requirements
of certain EUA affiliates (which is estimated to be approximately 275 MW at peak
requirement) until December 31, 2009.



     In May 1999, the Company and Dynegy Power Corporation (Dynegy), through
West Coast Power LLC, completed the acquisition of the Encina generating station
and 17 combustion turbines for approximately $356 million from San Diego Gas &
Electric Company. The facilities, which have a combined capacity rating of 1,218
MW, are located near Carlsbad and San Diego, California. The Company and Dynegy
each own a 50% interest in these facilities.

     In June 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the Huntley and
Dunkirk generating stations from NIMO for approximately $355 million. The two
coal-fired power generation facilities are located near Buffalo, New York, and
have a combined capacity rating of 1,360 MW. In connection with this
acquisition, the Company entered into several Transition Power Purchase
Agreements and a related swap agreement with NIMO pursuant to which NIMO
purchases certain energy and capacity from these facilities for a term of four
years.

     In June 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the Arthur Kill
generating station and the Astoria gas turbine station from ConEd for
approximately $505 million. These facilities, which are located in the New York
City area, have a combined capacity rating of 1,456 MW. In connection with the
acquisition of each facility, the Company entered into (i) Transition Energy
Sales Agreements pursuant to which energy from each facility is sold to ConEd
for a transition period ending on the date on which the independent system
operator in New York State (NYISO) commences operation of a spot market (which
commencement date was November 18, 1999) for energy and certain ancillary
services, and (ii) Transition Capacity Sales Agreements pursuant to which
capacity from each facility is sold to ConEd for a transition period ending on
the later of (a) the earlier of (i) December 31, 2002 or (ii) the date such
facility receives notice from the NYISO that none of the electric generating
capacity of such facility is required for meeting the installed capacity
requirements in New York City, or (b) the date the NYISO commences an auction
for system capacity. Pursuant to the Transition Energy Sales Agreements, the
Company agreed to sell to ConEd at a fixed price varying amounts of energy from
the Arthur Kill generating facility and the Astoria gas turbine generating
facility, in each case in amounts to be specified by ConEd, up to the full
capability of each facility. Pursuant to the Transition Capacity Sales
Agreements, the Company has agreed to sell to ConEd at a fixed price, during
certain periods, up to 100% of the capacity of the Arthur Kill generating
facility and up to 100% of the capacity of the Astoria gas turbines facility.

     The Company, together with its partner and the Creditor's committee, filed
a plan with the United States Bankruptcy court for the Middle District of
Louisiana to acquire 1,708 MW of fossil generating assets from Cajun Electric
Power Cooperative of Baton Rouge, Louisiana (Cajun) for approximately $1.0
billion. During the third quarter, the U.S. Bankruptcy Judge confirmed the
Creditor's Plan of Reorganization and the Company exercised an option to
purchase its partner's 50-percent interest in the project. The Company expects
to close the acquisition of the Cajun assets during the first quarter of 2000.

     In August, the Company agreed to sell all but a 20 percent ownership
interest in Cogeneration Corporation of America (CogenAmerica) to Calpine
Corporation (Calpine) in connection with Calpine's acquisition of the remaining
shares of CogenAmerica. Prior to December 1999, the Company owned approximately
45 percent of CogenAmerica. Upon closing of the transaction, all outstanding
shares of CogenAmerica common stock (other than those retained by the Company)
were acquired by Calpine for a cash purchase price of $25.00 per share. The
transaction closed during the fourth quarter of 1999 and the Company retained a
20-percent ownership interest in CogenAmerica.

     In October 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the Oswego
generating station from NIMO and Rochester Gas and Electric for approximately
$85 million. The oil and gas-fired power generating facility which has a
capacity rating of 1,700 MW, is located on a 93-acre site in Oswego, New York.
This facility consists of two units each having a capacity rating of 850 MW. In
connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into a Transition Power
Purchase Agreement with NIMO similar to those entered into in connection with
the acquisitions of the Dunkirk and Huntley facilities. Pursuant to this
agreement, the Company has agreed to sell 100% of the capacity of one unit, an
option for up to 40% of the capacity of the other unit, and an option to
purchase a nominal amount of energy to NIMO for a term of four years.



     In December 1999, the Company acquired four fossil fuel generating stations
and six remote gas turbines from CL&P for approximately $460 million, plus
adjustments for working capital. These facilities are located throughout
Connecticut and have a combined capacity rating of 2,235 MW. The Company entered
into a Standard Offer Service Wholesale Sales Agreement with CL&P pursuant to
which the Company will supply CL&P with 35% of its standard offer service load
during 2000, 40% during 2001 and 2002, and 45% during 2003. The Company
estimates that 45% of CL&P's standard offer service load in 2003 will be
approximately 2,070 MW at peak requirement. The Agreement terminates on December
31, 2003.

     In December 1999, the Company purchased a 50% interest in the Rocky Road
Power Plant, a 250 MW natural gas fired simple-cycle peaking facility in East
Dundee, IL from Dynegy Inc., for approximately $60 million. The power plant
began commercial operations on June 30, 1999 and received approval in October
1999, for the installation of an additional 100 MW natural gas combustion
turbine, increasing the facilities generating capacity to 350 MW. The expansion
is expected to be in service before the start of the peak summer 2000 season.

SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INVESTMENTS

LOY YANG POWER

     The Company has a 25.4% interest in Loy Yang Power (Loy Yang) which owns
and operates a 2,000 MW brown coal fired thermal power station (the Power
Station) and the adjacent Loy Yang coal mine (the Mine) located in Victoria,
Australia. The Power Station has four generating units, each with a 500 MW
boiler and turbo generator, which commenced commercial operation between July
1984 and December 1988. In addition, Loy Yang manages the common infrastructure
facilities which are located on the Loy Yang site, which services not only the
Power Station, but also the adjacent Loy Yang B 1000 MW power station (Loy Yang
B), a pulverized dried brown coal plant, and several other nearby power
stations.

     Loy Yang is required by law to sell its entire output of electricity
(subject to certain narrow exemptions, including output used in the Power
Station and the Mine) through the competitive wholesale market for electricity
operated and administered by the Victorian Power Exchange (the Pool). There are
two components to the wholesale electricity market in Victoria. The first is the
Pool. The second is the price hedging contracts, known as Contracts for
Differences (or CFDs), that are entered into between electricity sellers and
buyers in lieu of traditional power purchase agreements, which are not available
in Victoria because of the Pool system.

     Under the Victorian regulatory system, all electricity generated in
Victoria must be sold and purchased through the Pool. All licensed generators
and suppliers, including Loy Yang, are signatories to a pooling and settlement
agreement, which governs the constitution and operation of the Pool and the
calculation of payments due to and from generators and suppliers. The Pool also
provides centralized settlement of accounts and clearing. Prices for electricity
are set by the Pool daily for each half hour of the following day based on the
bids of the generators and a complex set of calculations matching supply and
demand and taking account of system stability, security and other costs. Under a
new national electricity market, the grid in Victoria has been interconnected
with that of New South Wales and limited trading is already taking place between
those states. Over the long term, there are plans for the interconnection of the
eastern seaboard states to establish what will be known as a national power
pool.

     In a pool system, it is not possible for a generator such as Loy Yang to
enter into traditional power purchase agreements. In order to provide a hedge
against Pool price volatility and to support their financings, most of the
Victorian generators have entered into CFDs with the Victorian distribution
companies, Victorian government entities and industrial users (customers). These
CFDs are financial hedging instruments, which have the effect of fixing the
price for a specified quantity of electricity for a particular seller and
purchaser over a defined period. They establish a "strike price" for a certain
volume of electricity purchased by the user during a specified period;
differences between that "strike price" and the actual price set by the Pool
give rise to "difference payments" between the parties at the end of the period.
Even if Loy Yang is producing less than its contracted quantity it will still be
required to make and will be entitled to receive difference payments for the
amounts set forth in its CFDs.



     Loy Yang's current CFDs with the Victorian distribution companies and other
Victorian government entities in respect of regulated customer load (which are
called vesting contracts) cover approximately 64% of Loy Yang's forecast revenue
from generation, thus providing considerable stability in its income over that
period. Loy Yang also enters into CFDs with its unregulated or contestable
customers. These CFDs are known as hedging contracts and, together with the
vesting contracts with the regulated customers, cover approximately 95% of Loy
Yang's forecast load at December 31, 1999. Each of the vesting contracts expires
at the end of the franchise period (December 31, 2000), by which time all retail
customers will have become contestable customers by operation of law. Loy Yang's
hedging contracts are generally for a term of one to two years, and the volume
of load covered by these contracts is expected to increase as retail customers
progressively become contestable. Loy Yang's goal is to cover 85% of its
forecast load with hedging contracts.

     Loy Yang and the State Electricity Commission of Victoria (SECV) have been
issued a joint mining license for the Mine. Under the terms of the
privatization, Loy Yang is required to mine coal to supply not only its own
Power Station but also the neighboring Loy Yang B, a nearby plant, and an
additional future power station that could be developed on a nearby site. This
requirement extends to 2027, but may be extended for an additional 30 years at
the SECV's option. Loy Yang receives a fixed capacity charge and a variable
energy charge for these services, coupled with a system of initiatives and
penalties. Loy Yang has over 70 years of economically viable coal supply at
current usage rates within its mine license area, even assuming that it is
required to continue supplying coal to the other parties beyond 2026.

     On the basis of historical Australian power pool prices, absent project
debt restructuring, the Loy Yang project company will experience difficulty in
servicing its long-term debt obligations. This, in turn, could trigger a senior
debt default under the loan documents on or about June 2001 continuing until
June 2003 as a result of the Debt Service Cover Ratio falling below prescribed
threshold levels. This would trigger a senior debt "lock-up" under the project's
loan documents, which lock-up would prevent the Loy Yang A project company from
making equity distributions to its owners. As the Company did not expect the Loy
Yang A project company would make any equity distributions in the immediate
future, a senior debt lock-up will not have a materially adverse effect on the
Company's results of operations.

     Effective December 9, 1999, the Australian government reduced the corporate
income tax rate from 36% to 34% for the tax year 2000/2001 and from 34% to 30%
for the tax years thereafter. The deferred tax assets and liabilities were
restated to the appropriate tax rate, which resulted in a negative impact on net
income of $3.4 million for 1999.

     In February 2000, CMS Energy (CMS) announced its intentions to divest its
49.6 percent ownership in Loy Yang Power, its only asset in eastern Australia.
CMS Energy indicated it was selling the asset because it was no longer of
strategic value to their portfolio and had not met financial expectations. The
Company believes the fundamentals behind the power station are still sound and
it will attract interest from other bidders. The Company has not decided if it
will bid for the CMS stake in Loy Yang Power. The remaining partners in Loy Yang
Power have pre-emptive rights over any sale of equity and any debt
restructuring.

GLADSTONE POWER STATION

     The Gladstone Power Station (Gladstone) is a 1,680 MW coal-fired power
generation facility located in Gladstone, Australia. The Company acquired a
37.5% ownership interest in Gladstone when the facility was privatized in March
1994. The other participants in this acquisition are subsidiaries or affiliates
of Comalco Limited, Marubeni Corporation, Sumitomo Corporation and Sumitomo
Light Metal Industries, Mitsubishi Corporation and Mitsubishi Materials
Corporation, and Yoshida Kogyo (the Participants). NRG Gladstone Operating
Services Pty. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (NRG Gladstone),
operates Gladstone under an operations and maintenance agreement expiring in
2011.

     Gladstone sells electricity to the Queensland Power Trading Corporation
(QPTC) and also to Boyne Smelters Limited (BSL) located at Boyne Island,
Queensland (the Smelter). Pursuant to an Interconnection and Power Pooling
Agreement (the IPPA), the Participants have the right to interconnect Gladstone
to the QPTC system and QPTC is obligated to accept all electricity generated by
the facility (subject to merit order



dispatch), for an initial term of 35 years. QPTC also has agreed under the IPPA
to permit the Smelter to interconnect to the QPTC system and to provide
sufficient generating capacity on its system in order to provide an
uninterrupted supply of power to the Smelter in most circumstances. The
Participants are obligated to maintain a 35% reserve margin for the Smelter
design load, but the QPTC is obligated to provide capacity support to the
Participants to make up any shortfall between the available capacity from
Gladstone and the Smelter demand at any given time.

     The QPTC also entered into a 35 year Capacity Purchase Agreement (CPA) with
each of the Participants for its percentage of the capacity of Gladstone,
excluding that sold directly to the Smelter. Under the CPAs, the Participants
are paid both a capacity and an energy charge by the QPTC. The capacity charge
is designed to cover the projected fixed costs allocable to the QPTC, including
debt service and an equity return, and is adjusted to reflect variations in
interest rates. A capacity bonus is also available if the equivalent
availability factor exceeds 88% on a rolling average basis, and damages are
payable by the Participants if it is less than 82% on that same basis. As of
December 31, 1999, the two-year average equivalent availability factor was
87.7%. The QPTC also pays an energy charge, which is intended to cover fuel
costs.

     The owners of the Smelter (BSL) have also entered into a Block A Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA) and Block B PPA with each Participant, providing for
the sale and purchase of such Participant's percentage share of capacity
allocated to the existing Smelter. The term of each of these PPAs is 35 years.
BSL is obligated to pay to each Participant a demand charge that is intended to
cover the fixed costs of supplying capacity to the existing Smelter and the
Smelter expansion, including debt service and return on equity. BSL also is
obligated to pay an energy charge based on the fuel cost associated with the
production of energy from the facility. The Smelter expansion resulted in an
increase in Gladstone capacity utilization from approximately 41% in 1994 to 60%
in 1999. The Company anticipates that the capacity utilization will increase to
64% in 2000.

     Effective December 9, 1999, the Australian government reduced the corporate
income tax rate from 36% to 34% for the tax year 2000/2001 and from 34% to 30%
for the tax years thereafter. The Gladstone Power Station has restated its tax
assets and liabilities to the appropriate tax rate. The reduced corporate income
tax rate resulted in an increase in net income of $3.9 million for 1999.

     NRG Gladstone is responsible for operation and maintenance of Gladstone
pursuant to a 17 year operation and maintenance agreement that commenced in
1994. NRG Gladstone is entitled to a base fee of AUS$ 1.25 million per year
indexed in accordance with the Australian Consumer Price Index (ACPI)
(approximately U.S. $0.896 million, based on exchange rates and ACPI in effect
at December 31, 1999), and an annual bonus based on the capacity bonuses to
which the Participants are entitled under the CPAs. NRG Gladstone is obligated
to pay liquidated damages for shortfalls in availability in an amount calculated
by reference to the liquidated damages payable by the Participants under the
CPAs and the PPAs. NRG Gladstone's obligations under the operation and
maintenance agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company, subject to
an aggregate liability cap of AUS$ 25.0 million indexed in accordance with ACPI
(approximately U.S. $16.4 million, based on exchange rates and ACPI in effect at
December 31, 1999).

COLLINSVILLE POWER STATION

     The Collinsville Power Station (Collinsville) is a 192 MW coal-fired power
generation facility located in Collinsville, Australia. In March 1996, the
Company acquired a 50% ownership interest in Collinsville when it was privatized
by the Queensland State government. The Company's partner in this acquisition is
Transfield Holdings Pty Ltd (Transfield), an Australian infrastructure
contractor, with which the Company formed an unincorporated joint venture to
refurbish this plant. The joint venture contracted with an affiliate of
Transfield to complete the refurbishment of the facility under a turn-key
contract. The operation and maintenance of the facility was undertaken by
Collinsville Operations Pty Ltd. (COPL), a 50% owned subsidiary of the Company.
COPL has entered into a maintenance contract with Transfield to perform required
maintenance on the facility and a technical services agreement with the Company
for staffing and assistance with certain operational functions.



     Collinsville Power Station commenced operations on August 11, 1998. The
Company and Transfield have entered into an 18 year Power Purchase Agreement
(PPA) with QPTC. Under this agreement QPTC will pay both a capacity and an
energy charge to the participants. The capacity charge is designed to cover the
projected fixed costs allocable to QPTC, including debt service and equity
return. The energy charge is based on the fuel costs associated with the
production of energy from the facility.

     Effective December 9, 1999, the Australian government reduced the corporate
income tax rate from 36% to 34% for the tax year 2000/2001 and from 34% to 30%
for the tax years thereafter. The Collinsville Power Station has restated its
tax assets and liabilities to the appropriate tax rates as of December 31, 1999.
The reduced corporate income tax rate resulted in an increase of $38,376 in net
income for 1999.

MIBRAG

     The Company owns an indirect 33 1/3% interest in the equity of
Mitteldeutsche Braunkohlengesellschaft mbH (MIBRAG) which owns coal mining,
power generation and associated operations, all of which are located south of
Leipzig, Germany. MIBRAG is a corporation formed by the German government
following the reunification of East and West Germany, to hold two open-cast
brown coal (lignite) mining operations, a lease on an additional mine, three
lignite-fired industrial cogeneration facilities and briquette manufacturing and
coal dust plants, all located in the former East Germany. In connection with the
acquisition, the Company and its partners agreed to invest (from cash flow from
MIBRAG operations) in excess of DM 1 billion (US $514.9 million based on the
exchange rate as of December 31, 1999) by December 31, 2004 to modernize the
existing mines and power generation facilities and to develop new open-pit
mines. The German government is obligated to provide certain guarantees of bank
loans to MIBRAG relating to capital improvements to the Schleenhain mine. MIBRAG
also agreed to operate the three power generation facilities until 2005, to
operate the briquette plants in accordance with market demand until 2005, and to
operate the lignite mines until continued operation of the mines is no longer
economically justifiable. In addition, MIBRAG has made certain employee
retention commitments until 2000.

     MIBRAG's cogeneration operations consist of the 110 MW Mumsdorf facility,
the 86 MW Deuben facility and the 37 MW Wahlitz facility. These facilities
provide power and thermal energy for MIBRAG's coal mining operations and its
briquette manufacturing plants. All power not consumed by MIBRAG's internal
operations is sold under an eight-year PPA with Westsachsische Energie
Aktiengesellschaft (WESAG), a recently privatized German electric utility. The
Company and PowerGen plc (Powergen) jointly, through Saale Energie Services GmbH
(Saale), provide consulting services for a fee for the operation of the MIBRAG
steam and power generation facilities, the associated electrical and thermal
transmission and distribution system and the briquette manufacturing plants,
under a power consultancy agreement with MIBRAG for the life of the facilities.
After some retrofitting was completed by MIBRAG, the Company believes that all
three of these cogeneration facilities now satisfy the current European Union
environmental regulations. MIBRAG leases these cogeneration facilities under a
13-year lease pursuant to which MIBRAG has operating control of, and a 1%
interest, in the facilities.

     MIBRAG's lignite mine operations include Profen, Zwenkau and Schleenhain
with total estimated reserves of 776 million metric tons. Morrison Knudsen, an
international mining company, provides consulting services to the mines under a
consultancy agreement with MIBRAG for the life of the mines. In addition to
providing approximately 3 million tons of lignite per year for MIBRAG's three
cogeneration facilities and one briquette facility, output from these mines
supplies lignite to the Schkopau power station and other facilities. The total
output of the refurbished Schleenhain mine is dedicated to the new 1,730 MW
Lippendorf power station. MIBRAG is currently supplying coal for the existing
Lippendorf facility, which is expected to close at the end of March 2000. The
first unit of the new Lippendorf facility has commenced operations and the
second new unit is expected to commence operations in May of 2000.

SCHKOPAU POWER STATION

     In 1993, the Company and PowerGen plc of the United Kingdom each acquired a
50% interest in a German limited liability company, Saale Energie GmbH (Saale).
Saale then acquired a 41.9% interest in a



960 MW coal-fired power plant that was under construction in the city of
Schkopau, Germany. PreussenElecktra Kraftwerke Ag (PE), a German energy company,
owns the remaining 58.1% interest in Schkopau and operates the plant. The
partnership of Saale and PE that owns the plant is called Kraftwerk Schkopau GbR
(KS).

     The first 425 MW unit of the Schkopau plant began operation in January
1996, the 110 MW turbine went into commercial operation in February 1996, and
the second 425 MW unit came on line in July 1996.

     PE operates and maintains the Schkopau facility under an operation and
maintenance contract with Kraftwerk Schkopau Betriebsgesellschaft mbH, a German
limited liability company (KSB), in which Saale and PE hold interests of 44.4%
and 55.6% respectively, and which is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the facility pursuant to certain agreements with each of Saale
and PE. PE is paid a management fee made up of several variable components that
are adjusted according to changes in, among other things, labor costs, producer
prices for light fuel oil and prices for electricity. Pursuant to the KSB
partnership agreement between Saale and PE and the Saale shareholders agreement
between the Company and PowerGen, the Company has the right to participate in
the oversight of facility operations and in the approval and oversight of
facility budgets and policies. The plant is fueled by brown coal which is
provided under a long-term contract by MIBRAG's Profen lignite mine.

     Pursuant to the KS partnership agreement between Saale and PE, each partner
has been allocated a share of capacity and energy generated by the facility.
Saale sells its allocated 400 MW portion of the plant's capacity under a 25-year
contract with VEAG, a major German utility which controls the high-voltage
transmission of electricity in the former East Germany. VEAG pays a price that
is made up of three components, the first of which is designed to recover
installation and capital costs, the second to recover operating and other
variable costs, and the third to cover fuel supply and transportation costs. The
Company receives 50% of the net profits from these VEAG payments through its
ownership interest in Saale.

COBEE

     In December 1996, the Company acquired an interest in Compania Boliviana de
Energia Electrica S.A.-Bolivian Power Company Limited (COBEE), the second
largest generator of electricity in Bolivia. The acquisition was consummated
through a Netherlands corporation, Tosli Investments B.V. (Tosli), which is
equally owned by subsidiaries of the Company and Vattenfall AB of Sweden
(Vattenfall). In December 1996, Tosli completed a successful tender offer for
the shares of COBEE, which were listed on the New York Stock Exchange, acquiring
96.6% of COBEE's outstanding common shares for a total purchase price of $175
million. COBEE shares were delisted in January 1997. In November 1999, Tosli,
successfully completed a second tender offer for shares of COBEE. As a result,
Tosli currently holds 98.19% of COBEE's outstanding common shares. In addition,
COBEE has met the requirements to deregister from the Securities and Exchange
Commission and effective November 9, 1999 deregistered. The COBEE board of
directors consists of three designees of the Company, three designees of
Vattenfall and three directors appointed jointly by the Company and Vattenfall.

     COBEE has entered into an electricity supply contract with Electricidad de
La Paz S.A., a Bolivian distribution company, (Electropaz) which provides that
COBEE shall supply Electropaz with all of the electricity that COBEE can supply,
up to the maximum amount of electricity required by Electropaz to supply the
requirements of its distribution concession. This electricity supply contract
expires in December 2008. COBEE has entered into a substantially similar
contract with Empresa de Luz Fuerza Electricade Oruro, another Bolivian
distribution company, S.A. (ELF). All payments by Electropaz and ELF are in
local currency, tied to the value of the U.S. dollar.

     COBEE operates its electric generation business under a 40-year concession
granted by the Government of Bolivia in 1990, as most recently amended in March
1995. Under this concession, COBEE is entitled to earn a return of 9% after all
operating expenses, depreciation, taxes and interest expense, calculated on its
U.S. dollar rate base, consisting of net fixed assets at historical cost in U.S.
dollars and working capital and materials up to certain limits. The Bolivian
Electricity Code also provides for the adjustment of rates to compensate COBEE
for any shortfall or to recapture any excess in COBEE's actual rate of return
during the


previous year. COBEE periodically applies to the Superintendent of Electricity
for rate increases sufficient to provide its 9% rate of return based on COBEE's
current operating results and its projection of future revenues and expenses.

COGENERATION CORPORATION OF AMERICA

     On January 18, 1996, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New
Jersey awarded the Company the right to acquire a 41.86% equity interest in
O'Brien Environmental Energy, Inc. (O'Brien), which emerged from bankruptcy on
April 30, 1996 and was renamed "NRG Generating (U.S.) Inc." (NRGG). On July 20,
1998, NRGG's name was changed to Cogeneration Corporation of America. Prior to
December 1999, the Company held 45.21% of the common stock of CogenAmerica. The
remaining 54.79% of the common stock was held publicly. CogenAmerica has
interests in six domestic operating projects with an aggregate capacity of
approximately 575 MW. CogenAmerica's principal operating projects include: (a)
the 54 MW Newark Boxboard Project (which is owned 100% by a wholly-owned project
subsidiary of CogenAmerica), a gas-fired cogeneration facility that sells
electricity to Jersey Central Power & Light (JCP&L) and steam to Newark Group
Industries, Inc.; (b) the 122 MW E.I. du Pont Parlin Project (which is owned
100% by a wholly-owned project subsidiary of CogenAmerica), a gas-fired
cogeneration facility that sells electricity to JCP&L and steam to E.I. du Pont
de Nemours and Company; (c) an 83% interest in a 22 MW standby/peak sharing
facility which provides electricity and standby capabilities for the
Philadelphia Municipal Authority; (d) a 50% interest in the 150 MW Grays Ferry
project, a gas-fired cogeneration project located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
which sells electricity to Philadelphia Electricity Company (PECO). PECO
attempted to terminate the PPA with respect to the Grays Ferry project. The
Grays Ferry partnership in turn commenced litigation claiming there is no basis
for termination of such agreement. On April 23, 1999, Grays Ferry and PECO
reached a final settlement on the resolution of the litigation concerning the
parties' PPA. Under the terms of the settlement, PECO transferred its one-third
ownership interest in the 150 MW project to Grays Ferry. As a result
CogenAmerica's interest in Grays Ferry increased to 50%, effective April 23,
1999.; (e) the 117 MW Morris project, a gas-fired cogeneration project located
in Morris, Illinois, which sells electricity and steam to Equistar Chemicals;
(f) the 110 MW MCPC project, a gas-fired cogeneration project located in Pryor,
Oklahoma, which sells electricity to Oklahoma Gas and Electric and steam to a
number of industrial users.

     On October 9, 1998, CogenAmerica acquired the Company's 50% interest in
MCPC, a 110 MW cogeneration project located in Pryor, Oklahoma. CogenAmerica
also acquired the remaining 50% interest in this project from Decker Energy
International Inc., and associated entities. The project sells electricity to
Oklahoma Gas and Electric and steam to a number of industrial users. The
purchase price was approximately $23.9 million.

     On December 30, 1997 CogenAmerica acquired from the Company 100% of the
membership interests in NRG (Morris) Cogen, LLC which was building a 117 MW
cogeneration plant on the site of the Equistar Chemicals, LP (Equistar)
manufacturing facility in Morris, Illinois. In connection with the sale, the
Company committed to finance the acquisition price pursuant to a loan agreement
between the Company and CogenAmerica and the Company guaranteed the obligation
of CogenAmerica to invest equity into the project company.

     CogenAmerica's Morris facility experienced two unscheduled outages in
January 1999, which resulted in service and business interruptions to Equistar.
The Company, as a provider of construction management services and operation and
maintenance services to the Morris facility has participated with CogenAmerica
and Equistar in an investigation into this matter. This investigation, which
includes an examination of the respective rights and obligations of the parties
with respect to one another and with respect to potentially responsible third
parties, including insurers, is continuing. Although it is not possible at the
present time to assess the Company's potential exposure related to the two
outages, the Company does not believe that any claims which may be brought
against it will have a material financial impact on the Company.

     In August 1999, CogenAmerica entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger
(Merger Agreement) with Calpine and Calpine East Acquisition Corp. (Calpine
Acquisition) pursuant to which Calpine



Acquisition and CogenAmerica merged. At closing of the merger, all outstanding
shares of CogenAmerica common stock (other then shares held by Calpine
Acquisition) were converted into the right to receive $25.00 per share in cash.
Concurrently with the Merger Agreement, the Company entered into a Contribution
and Stockholders Agreement with Calpine and Calpine Acquisition. Immediately
prior to the closing of the merger, the Company contributed approximately 20% of
its CogenAmerica shares to Calpine Acquisition in exchange for 20% of the shares
of stock of the surviving corporation. The transaction closed during the fourth
quarter of 1999, the Company recognized a pretax gain on the sale of
approximately $11 million.

WEST COAST POWER

     In May 1999, Dynegy Power Corporation (Dynegy) and the Company formed West
Coast Power LLC (West Coast Power), a Delaware limited liability company, 50%
owned by affiliates of each sponsor. West Coast Power serves as the holding
company for a portfolio of operating companies which own generating assets in
Southern California. These assets are currently comprised of the El Segundo
Generating Station, the Long Beach Generating Station, the Encina Generating
Station and 17 Combustion Turbines in the San Diego area (the Encina Combustion
Turbines).

     El Segundo Generating Station: The El Segundo Generating Station is a 1,020
MW plant consisting of four units: two units at 175 MW each and two units at 335
MW each. El Segundo was purchased from the Southern California Edison Company
through a competitive bid process for $87.7 million on April 3, 1998. El Segundo
sells electricity through the California power exchange.

     Long Beach Generating Station: The Long Beach Generating Station is a 530
MW plant with seven 60 MW gas turbine generators and two 70 MW steam turbine
units. The Long Beach plant was purchased from Southern California Edison
Company on March 31, 1998 through a competitive bid process for $29.8 million.
Long Beach sells peak electricity and ancilliary services through the California
power exchange and through bilateral contracts.

     Encina Generating Station: The Encina Generating Station is located in
Carlsbad, California and consists of five steam-electric generating units and
one combustion turbine with net generating capacity of 965 MW. Encina was
purchased from San Diego Gas & Electric on May 21, 1999, at a purchase price of
$290.5 million.

     Encina Combustion Turbines: The Encina Combustion Turbine assets consist of
17 combustion turbine generator sets (the CT's) with an aggregate capacity of
253 MW, located on seven different sites in San Diego County. On May 21, 1999,
the Company and Dynegy, purchased the CT's from San Diego Gas & Electric through
a competitive bid process. The CT's acquisition had a purchase price of $69.1
million. The CT's have the ability to provide spinning reserve, black start
capability, quick start capability, voltage support and quick load capability
for the ancilliary services market.

SIGNIFICANT WHOLLY-OWNED OPERATIONS

MINNEAPOLIS ENERGY CENTER

     Minneapolis Energy Center (Energy Center) provides steam and chilled water
to customers in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. Energy Center currently
provides 92 customers with 1.6 billion pounds of steam per year and 39 customers
with 40.8 million ton-hours of chilled water per year. The Company acquired
Energy Center in August 1993 for approximately $110 million. Energy Center's
assets include two combined steam and chilled water plants, three chilled water
plants, two steam plants, six miles of steam and two miles of chilled water
distribution lines. The Energy Center plants have a combined steam capacity of
1,408 mmBtus per hour (413 MWt) and cooling capacity of 40,750 tons per hour.

     Energy Center provides steam and chilled water to its customers pursuant to
energy supply agreements, which expire at varying dates from December 1999 to
March 2019. Historically, Energy Center has renewed its energy supply agreements
as they near expiration. With minor exceptions, these agreements are standard
form contracts providing for a uniform rate structure consisting of three
components: a demand charge designed to recover MEC's fixed capital costs, a
consumption charge designed to provide a per unit margin, and an operating
charge designed to pass through to customers all fuel, labor, maintenance,
electricity and


other operating costs. The demand and consumption charges are adjusted in
accordance with the Consumer Price Index every five years.

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Energy Center acquired Dayton's
(Target Corporation) steam and chilled water facility located in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The acquisition added 85 mmBtus of steam capacity and 3,600 tons of
chilled water. The facilities were acquired for approximately $3.0 million.

NORTH AMERICAN THERMAL SYSTEM

     In February 1999, the Company purchased from TVI the remaining 50.1%
limited partnership interest in San Francisco Thermal Limited Partnership and
Pittsburgh Thermal Limited Partnership for $12.3 million. In April 1999, the
Company acquired TVI's 50% member interest in North American Thermal Systems LLC
(NATS) for $500,000. The Company owns 100% of the North American Thermal Systems
limited partnership which holds the operating assets of the San Francisco,
California and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania district heating and cooling operations.
The San Francisco thermal system has approximately 185 customers and a capacity
of 490 mmBtu/hr of steam. The Pittsburgh thermal system has approximately 29
steam customers and 27 chilled water customers. It has a capacity of 240
MMBtu/hr of steam and 10,180 tons of chilled water.

ROCK-TENN

     The Rock-Tenn process steam operation, which is owned and operated by the
Company, consists of a five-mile closed-loop steam/condensate line that delivers
steam to the Rock-Tenn Company (RTC) (formerly Waldorf Corporation), a paper
manufacturer in St. Paul, Minnesota. Rock-Tenn has a peak steam capacity of 430
mmBtus per hour (126 MWt). As a result of the settlement of a 1987 dispute
between RTC and NORENCO Corporation (a predecessor of the Company), RTC prepaid
revenues for future steam service. As of December 31, 1999, deferred revenues
remaining were approximately $2.0 million.

     The Company delivers steam to RTC under a steam sales agreement, pursuant
to which RTC is obligated to purchase its total energy needs for its St. Paul,
Minnesota facility through June 30, 2007. The agreement does not obligate RTC to
purchase a minimum quantity of energy. Instead, RTC failure to purchase a
certain quantity of energy during a given contract year triggers the Company's
right to terminate the agreement, unless RTC elects to compensate the Company
for the deficit energy usage amount.

NEO CORPORATION

     NEO Corporation (NEO) is a wholly-owned project subsidiary of the Company
that was formed to develop small power generation facilities, ranging in size
from 1 to 50 MW, in the United States. NEO is currently focusing on the
development and acquisition of landfill gas projects, the acquisition of small
hydroelectric projects, the development of distributed generation projects and
the acquisition of other green power assets.

     Through the investment vehicle, Northbrook Energy, L.L.C. (Northbrook), NEO
has a 50% interest in eighteen small operating hydroelectric projects, ranging
in size from 1 MW to 33 MW and having a total capacity of 71 MW. As of December
31, 1999, NEO's total investment in these projects was $13.5 million.

     NEO has a 50% interest in the generators associated with 25 operating
landfill gas projects, as of December 31, 1999, ranging in size from 1 MW to 12
MW. NEO owns 100% of the gas collection systems associated with those 25
generating projects. As of December 31, 1999, NEO's investment in these projects
totaled $70.7 million and loans to fund development, construction and start-up
amounted to $26.9 million. In addition, NEO has three generating projects under
construction. NEO expects its total funding requirements to be approximately
$120 million and total capacity of the portfolio is expected to reach 107 MW in
2000.

     In 1999, NEO acquired 50% of the MESI syncoal project which processes waste
coal into coal briquettes. The MESI syncoal project is located at the KenWest
terminal in Catletsburg, Kentucky. The processed and solid waste coal produces
Section 29 tax credits.



     On September 24, 1997, certain affiliates of NEO entered into a
Construction, Acquisition and Term Loan Agreement with Lyon Credit Corporation
(Lyon) for $92 million to fund the construction of the landfill gas collection
systems and generation facilities for certain NEO landfill gas projects in
development. The construction loan for each project will convert to a term loan
containing a maximum maturity date of ten years. The Company has agreed to
provide Lyon with a guarantee during the construction loan period. In addition,
the Company has agreed to guarantee the monetization and use of the Section 29
tax credits generated from the landfill gas projects financed by Lyon through
the year 2007.

     An important factor in the after tax return of the landfill gas projects is
the eligibility of these projects for Section 29 tax credits. The Section 29 tax
credit is available only to projects that produce "qualified fuels". Landfill
gas is a qualified fuel for purposes of the Section 29 credit. To qualify for
the credit, the facility for producing gas must have been placed in service no
later than June 30, 1998. Congress has not renewed the Section 29 credit for new
landfill gas projects.

RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITIES

     The Company's Newport resource recovery facility, located in Newport,
Minnesota, can process over 1,500 tons of Municipal Solid Waste, (MSW) per day,
90% of which is used as fuel in power generation facilities in Red Wing and
Mankato, Minnesota and other recyclables. The Newport facility, which was
originally constructed and operated by NSP, was transferred to the Company in
1993. The Company owns 100% of and operates and maintains the Newport facility.

     Pursuant to service agreements with Ramsey and Washington Counties,
(Counties), which expire in 2007, the Company processes a minimum of 280,800
tons of MSW per year at the Newport facility and receives service fees based on
the amount of waste processed, pass-through costs and certain other factors. The
Company is also entitled to an operation and maintenance fee, which is designed
to recover fixed costs and to provide the Company a guaranteed amount for
operating and maintaining the Newport facility for the processing of 750 tons
per day of MSW, whether or not the Counties deliver such waste for processing.

     Since 1989, the Company has operated the Elk River resource recovery
facility located in Elk River, Minnesota, which can process over 1,500 tons of
MSW per day, 90% of which is used as fuel in power generation facilities in Elk
River and Mankato, Minnesota and other recyclables. NSP owns 85% of the Elk
River facility, and United Power Association owns the remaining 15%.

     The Company also provides ash storage and disposal for the Elk River
facility at NSP's Becker ash disposal facility, an approved ash deposit site
adjacent to NSP's Sherburne County generating facility near Becker, Minnesota.
The Company operates the Becker facility on behalf of NSP. Pursuant to an ash
management services agreement between NSP and the counties, NSP receives an ash
disposal fee based on the amount of ash disposal, pass-through costs and certain
other factors.

     Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) projects, such as the Company's Newport facility
and NSP's Elk River facility, historically were assured adequate supply of waste
through state and local flow control legislation, which directed that waste be
disposed of in certain facilities. In May 1994, the United States Supreme Court
held that such waste was a commodity in interstate commerce and, accordingly,
that flow control legislation that prohibited shipment of waste out of state was
unconstitutional. Since this ruling, the RDF facilities have faced increased
competition from landfills in surrounding states in obtaining MSW.

CROCKETT COGENERATION

     Pacific Crockett Energy, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, is the general partner of the Crockett Cogeneration Project (Crockett).
Crockett, a 240 MW gas fired plant began operations in May 1996. Pacific
Generation Company, another wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, owns a 56.67
percent limited partnership interest in Crockett through ENI Crockett LP (ENI
Crockett). ENI Crockett is a limited partnership in which Pacific Generation
Company is the general partner and Dynegy is a limited partner. The project
sells 240 MW of capacity and energy to Pacific Gas & Electric Company under a
modified Standard Offer No. 4 PPA extending to 2026. The PPA provides for a
fixed capacity payment and a



variable energy payment based on the market price of gas. In addition, Crockett
provides up to 450,000 lbs/hr of steam to the adjacent C&H Sugar refinery under
a steam sales agreement that does not expire until 2026. Natural gas is supplied
to the project by Amoco Canada Marketing Corp. under a fifteen year contract,
with performance guaranteed by Amoco Canada Petroleum Company Ltd. ESOCO
operates the project under a renewable 15 year contract that provides for
reimbursement of all costs within an approved budget, plus a fee and provision
for a performance bonus. Other limited partners include Energy Investors Fund LP
and Energy Investors Fund II, LP and a subsidiary of Tomen Power Corp. Crockett
was originally financed with a $260 million construction and term loan facility
provided by a commercial bank syndicate led by ABN-AMRO. On December 15, 1999,
Crockett was refinanced with a $255 million term loan facility provided by a
commercial bank syndicate led by ABN-AMRO, maturing in December 31, 2014.

NRG NORTHEAST GENERATING LLC

     The Company has acquired through its affiliates, in five separate
transactions, certain generating assets from NIMO, ConEd, MEC, (a wholly owned
subsidiary of Eastern Utilities Association (EUA)), and CL&P for a total cost of
$1.5 billion. The Company has aggregated these assets into a regional generating
company, NRG Northeast Generating LLC (NRG Northeast); (collectively, the NRG
Northeast assets).

     The Company's Northeast assets represent competitive, low cost units with
favorable market dynamics and locations close to major load centers in the New
York Power Pool and New England Power Pool.

     Huntley and Dunkirk: In June 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of
the Huntley and Dunkirk generating stations from NIMO for $355 million. The two
coal-fired power generation facilities are located near Buffalo, New York and
have a combined capacity rating of 1,360 MW.

     Oswego: On October 22, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of the
1,700 MW oil and gas fired Oswego generating station for approximately $85
million from NIMO and Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation.

     Astoria Gas Turbines and Arthur Kill: In June 1999, the Company completed
its acquisition of the Astoria gas turbine facility and the Arthur Kill
Generating Station from ConEd for $505 million. These facilities, which are
located in the New York City area and have a combined capacity rating of 1,456
MW.

     Somerset: In April 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the
Somerset power station for approximately $55 million from MEC. The Somerset
station includes two coal fired base-load generating facilities supplying a
total of 181 MW and two aeroderivative combustion turbine peaking units
supplying a total of 48 MW, includes 69 MW on deactivated reserve. It is located
on the west bank of the Taunton River in Somerset, Massachusetts and is
interconnected with the NEPOOL market.

     Connecticut stations: In December 1999, the Company closed on the
acquisition of four fossil fuel electric generating stations and six remote gas
turbines totaling 2,235 MW from CL&P for $460 million, plus adjustments for
working capital. The assets acquired from CL&P (CL&P Assets) are comprised of
the Middletown, Montville, Devon and Norwalk Harbor gas- and oil-fired steam
generating stations totaling 2,108 MW and 127 MW of remote gas turbines at
Branford, Torrington and Cos Cob, Connecticut.

     Middletown station, an 856 MW gas and oil powered plant, is located in
Middletown, Connecticut. The 498 MW Montville Station in Uncasville, Connecticut
is composed of one gas- or oil-fired unit, one oil-fired unit and two diesel
generators. Norwalk Station, with 353 MW of capacity from two oil-fired units
and one gas turbine, is located on Manresa Island at the mouth of Norwalk
Harbor. Devon Station, consisting of 401 MW of generation capacity derived from
two gas- or oil-fired units and five gas turbines, is located at Milford,
Connecticut.



SIGNIFICANT PENDING ACQUISITIONS AND PROJECTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT

     Because of the many complexities inherent in the acquisition, development
and financing of projects, there can be no assurance that any of the Company's
pending acquisitions and projects under development, including those described
below, will be consummated.

ENFIELD

     In December 1996, the Company reached an agreement with Indeck Energy
Services (Europe) (Indeck) to sell a 50% interest in the Enfield Energy Center,
a 396 MW gas-fired project in the North London borough of Enfield. In December
1998, the Company sold one-half of its 50% interest in the Enfield project to an
affiliate of El Paso International. The power station was scheduled to commence
commercial operations in November 1999, but due to operational problems, the
power station completion date has been pushed back until mid-2000. Discussions
are underway with EPC contractor to negotiate a settlement that will compensate
the Company for the delay in completion of the power station.

ESTONIA

     In December 1996, representatives of the Estonian Government, the
state-owned Eesti Energia ("EE"), and the Company signed a development and
cooperation agreement (DCA). The DCA defines the terms under which the parties
are to establish a plan to develop and refurbish the Balti and Eesti Power
Plants. Pursuant to the DCA, a business plan for the joint project was submitted
in June 1997. In September 1997, the Estonian Government rejected the Company's
business plan. However, early in 1998 the Estonian Government and EE agreed to
work on a new business plan with the Company, which was submitted in May 1998.
The Company has stated its willingness to invest up to $67.25 million of equity
into the project and to assist the joint project in obtaining non-recourse debt
to fund the required capital improvements to the Balti and Eesti Power Plants. A
commission has been established to negotiate all terms and agreements between
the Company, EE and the Estonian Government relating to the purchase of the
Balti and Eesti Power Plants. The negotiation process is expected to be
completed by the end of the third quarter of 2000.

     The Company has a policy of expensing all costs until there is a signed
contract and Board of Directors approval. All such costs with respect to Estonia
have been expensed.

CAJUN

     The Company, together with its partner and the creditors' committee filed a
plan with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of
Louisiana to acquire 1,708 MW of fossil generating assets from Cajun Electric
Power Cooperative of Baton Rouge, Louisiana (Cajun) for approximately $1.0
billion. The consortium has the support of the Chapter 11 trustee and Cajun's
secured creditors. During the third quarter of 1999, the U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
confirmed the creditors plan of reorganization and the Company exercised an
option to purchase its partner's 50 percent interest in the project. The Company
expects to close the acquisition of the Cajun assets during the first quarter of
2000.

KILLINGHOLME

     In November 1999, the Company agreed to purchase the 665 MW Killingholme A
station from National Power plc. Killingholme A was commissioned in 1994 and is
a combined-cycle, gas-turbine power station located in North Lincolnshire,
England. The purchase price for the station will be approximately 410 million
pounds sterling (approximately $662 million U.S. at end of year exchange rates),
subject to commercial adjustments. The purchase price includes 20 million pounds
sterling (approximately $32 million U.S. at end of year exchange rates) that is
contingent upon the successful completion of negotiations regarding the
Company's purchase of National Power's Blyth generating facilities. The Blyth
assets consist of two coal-fired stations totaling 1,140 MW of generation
capacity located in England. The acquisition of Killingholme is expected to
close at the end of the first quarter of 2000.



CONECTIV ASSETS

     In January 2000, the Company agreed to purchase 1,875 MW of fossil-fueled
electric generating capacity and other assets from Conectiv of Wilmington,
Delaware for $800 million. The fossil-fueled generating facilities consist of
Conectiv's wholly owned BL England, Deepwater, Indian River and Vienna steam
stations plus Conectiv's interest in the Conemaugh and Keystone steam stations.
Other assets in the purchase are the 241-acre Dorchester site located in
Dorchester County, Maryland, certain Merrill Creek Reservoir entitlements in
Harmony Township, New Jersey and certain excess emission allowances. The Company
will sell 500 MW of energy to Delmarva (a subsidiary of Conectiv) under a five
year power purchase agreement. The remaining energy and capacity will be sold in
PJM and neighboring markets. The acquisition is expected to close at the end of
the third quarter of 2000.

     The BL England Steam Station is a 447 MW coal and oil-fired generating
facility in Beesley's Point, New Jersey. The Deepwater steam station is a 239 MW
gas, oil and coal facility near Pensville, New Jersey. The Indian River Steam
Station is a 784 MW coal fired facility near Millboro, Delaware. The Vienna
Steam Station is a 170 MW oil-fired generating station located in the town of
Vienna, Maryland. Of the 1,711 MW coal-fired Conemaugh Steam Station, located
near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the Company will acquire a 7.55 percent ownership
or 129 MW of generation. The Company will also acquire a 6.17 percent ownership
or 106 MW in the 1,711 MW coal-fired Keystone Steam Station also located near
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

TURBINE PURCHASE AGREEMENT

     In January 2000, the Company executed a memorandum of understanding with GE
Power Systems, a division of General Electric Company, to purchase 11 gas
turbine generators and five steam turbine generators. The purchase will take
place over the next five years and are valued at approximately $500 million with
an option to purchase additional units. The 16 turbines have an equivalent
generation output of 3,000 MW and will be installed at the Company's existing
North American plant sites.

PROJECT AGREEMENTS

     In the past, virtually all of the Company's operating power generation
facilities have sold electricity under long-term power purchase agreements. A
facility's revenue from a power purchase agreement usually consists of two
components: energy payments and capacity payments.

     Several of the recent projects in which the Company has acquired or is
acquiring do not have long-term power purchase agreements. For example, this is
true for Enfield, because the United Kingdom has adopted a regulatory scheme
under which all generators must sell their output to a grid where the price is
established by a neutral regulator based on the market prices during each
defined period. Similarly, the San Joaquin Valley Energy Partners Facilities
accepted a buy-out of their long-term contracts, so if they recommence
operations, it is anticipated that they will be "merchant" plants (i.e., plants
operating without long-term power purchase agreements in place, selling their
output into the market). The generation facilities which the Company has
recently acquired in California, Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts are
merchant plants, although a portion of the output of certain of these plants in
the first several years of the Company's ownership of them is contracted for,
either under transition power purchase contracts with their former owners or
under bilateral contracts with other wholesale customers. In the case of the
Kladno project, where there is a long-term agreement, the energy price is tied
to the market price of electricity rather than to the costs incurred by the
project, so the contract does not provide the traditional level of certainty and
protection. In the case of the Loy Yang A project, Australian power pool prices
have been significantly lower than anticipated at the time of the Company's
purchase of its interest in the Loy Yang A project, resulting in earnings much
lower than initially forecast. While these merchant projects introduce new risks
and uncertainties, and require careful advance analysis of the local power
markets, the Company believes that merchant projects are becoming increasingly
accepted in the independent power market. The Company tries to obtain short,
intermediate and long-term contracts for the sale of energy and capacity
whenever feasible.



REGULATION

     The Company is subject to a broad range of federal, state and local energy
and environmental laws and regulations applicable to the development, ownership
and operation of its United States and international projects. These laws and
regulations generally require that a number of permits and approvals be obtained
before construction or operation of a power plant commences and that, after
completion, the facility operate in compliance with local requirements. The
Company strives to comply with the terms of all such laws, regulations, permits
and licenses and believes that all of its operating plants are in material
compliance with all such applicable requirements. No assurance can be given,
however, that in the future all necessary permits and approvals will be obtained
and all applicable statutes and regulations complied with. In addition,
regulatory compliance for the construction of new facilities is a costly and
time-consuming process, and intricate and rapidly changing environmental
regulations may require major expenditures for permitting and create the risk of
expensive delays or material impairment of project value if projects cannot
function as planned due to changing regulatory requirements or local opposition.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that existing regulations will not be
revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to the
Company which would have an adverse impact on its operations.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     Environmental controls at the federal, state, regional and local levels
have a substantial impact on the Company's operations due to the cost of
installation and operation of equipment required for compliance.

  Air

     On October 12, 1999, the Company received a letter from the Office of the
Attorney General of the State of New York speculating that based on a
preliminary analysis, it believes that significant modifications were made to
the Huntley and Dunkirk facilities during NIMO's ownership of these facilities
without obtaining Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and/or New
Source Review (NSR) permits. The letter requested documents related to historic
maintenance, repair, and replacement work at the facilities, as well as other
data related to operations and emissions from these facilities. On January 12,
2000, the Company received a formal request from the New York Department of
Environmental Conservation (NYDEC) seeking essentially the same documents
covered by the Attorney General's letter. The Company understands that the NYDEC
request supercedes the Attorney General's request. Although, the Company does
not have reason to believe that NIMO failed to comply with the preconstruction
permit requirements at the Huntley and Dunkirk facilities, the Company has
recently initiated steps to investigate the allegations. If it is determined
that these facilities did not comply with the PSD or NSR permit programs, the
Company could be required among other things, to install pollution control
technology to further control the emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOX) and sulfur
dioxide (SO2) from the Huntley and Dunkirk facilities. By virtue of conditions
imposed under the asset sale agreement between the Company and NIMO (the
Company's rights and obligations under the asset sale agreement were
substantially assigned to Huntley Power LLC and Dunkirk Power LLC), NIMO remains
responsible for "any fines, penalties and assessments imposed by a governmental
entity with respect to violation or alleged violation of Environmental Law which
occurred prior to the Closing Date." Even so, the Company could become subject
to fines and/or penalties associated with the period of time it has operated the
facilities.

     On October 14, 1999, Governor Pataki of New York directed the Commissioner
of the NYDEC to require further reductions of SO2 emissions and NOX emissions
from New York power plants, beyond that which is required under current federal
and state law. Under Governor Pataki's directive NOX emissions during the
"non-ozone" season would be reduced to levels consistent with those currently
mandated for the "ozone" season under the Ozone Transport Commission's
Memorandum of Understanding. This additional reduction requirement would be
phased in between January 1, 2003 and January 2, 2007. In addition, Governor
Pataki announced that he is ordering a reduction of S02 emissions by 50% beyond
the requirements of the Federal Acid Rain Program. These reductions would also
be phased in between January 1, 2003 and January 1, 2007. Compliance with these
emission reduction requirements, if they become effective, could have a material
impact on the operation of the Company's facilities located in the State of New
York.


     On November 3, 1999, in the southern and mid-western regions of the United
States, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) filed suit against seven
electric utilities for alleged violations of the Federal Clean Air Act (the
Clean Air Act) NSR and PSD permit requirements at seventeen utility generating
stations located in the southern and mid-western regions of the United States.
In addition, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) issued
administrative notices of violation alleging similar violations at eight other
power plants owned by certain of the electric utilities named as defendants in
the DOJ lawsuit, and also issued an administrative order to the Tennessee Valley
Authority for similar violations at seven of its power plants. The DOJ lawsuit
alleges that the defendants, over a period of twenty years, undertook
modifications at their generating stations that resulted in increased air
emissions without complying with regulatory requirements governing such
modifications. Subsequent to the DOJ lawsuit, New York, Connecticut and New
Jersey have brought their own lawsuits against American Electric Power, an Ohio
based utility holding company, and have sought to intervene in the DOJ lawsuit.
To date, no lawsuits or administrative actions have been brought against the
Company or the former owners of the facilities alleging violations of the NSR or
PSD requirements. However, there is a likelihood that future lawsuits alleging
similar violations may be filed against additional electric utility generating
stations. The Company can provide no assurance that lawsuits or administrative
actions alleging violations of PSD and NSR requirements will not be filed in the
future.

     The State of Connecticut has in the past considered legislation that would
require older electrical generating stations to comply with more stringent
pollution standards for NOX and SO2 emissions. During the 1999 legislative
session, the Connecticut House of Representatives voted in favor of such
legislation. The House bill was referred to the Energy Technology Committee
where no action was taken. Similar legislation has been introduced as part of
the 2000 legislative session.

  Site Contamination/Remediation

     With the acquisition of the NRG Northeast assets, the Company assumed
certain liabilities for existing environmental conditions at the sites with the
exception of off-site liabilities associated with the disposal of hazardous
materials and certain other environmental liabilities. The Company has not
assumed responsibility for any contamination resulting from the September 7,
1998 explosion and subsequent fire involving a transformer containing PCBs at
the Arthur Kill Station. The transformer explosion, fire and subsequent oil
spill resulted in the release of PCB's to the environment. ConEd maintains
responsibility for the remediation of the PCB and other contamination associated
with this event.

     Environmental site assessments have been prepared for all of the recently
acquired NRG Northeast assets. The remediation activities at the Arthur Kill,
Astoria Gas Turbine and Somerset facilities are still in the study phase. As
such, the remediation costs estimates are based on approaches that have not been
approved yet by the regulatory agencies involved. Data from additional
investigations performed at the Astoria Gas Turbines and the approach being
taken at the Somerset Station may result in less costly remediation efforts than
originally estimated.

     For the Connecticut facilities, the Company is planning to conduct
additional studies to better quantify remedial need. Such studies include the
preparation of risk assessments to justify remedial actions proposed by the
Company to the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection and U.S. EPA.

  Costs

     The Company has recorded approximately $5.8 million for expected
environmental costs related to site remediation issues at the Arthur Kill,
Astoria facilities and Somerset facilities. These amounts are based on the
environmental assessments for these sites.

     The Company has budgeted approximately $44 million for capital expenditures
between 2000 and 2004 for environmental compliance, which includes the above
remedial investigations, the installation of NOX control technology at the
Somerset facility, intake screens at the Dunkirk facility, the resolution of
consent orders for remediation at the Arthur Kill and Astoria facilities and the
resolution of a consent order for water intake at the Arthur Kill facility.


EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had 1,323 employees, approximately 400 of
whom are employed directly by the Company and approximately 923 of whom are
employed by its wholly-owned subsidiaries.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Forward looking statements above include but are not limited to the future
performance of various facilities and expected operating results for future
periods.

     In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically
in connection with the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K,
factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from
those contemplated in any forward-looking statements include, among others, the
following:

     - Economic conditions including inflation rates and monetary or currency
       exchange rate fluctuations;

     - Trade, monetary, fiscal, taxation, and environmental policies of
       governments, agencies and similar organizations in geographic areas where
       the Company has a financial interest;

     - Customer business conditions including demand for their products or
       services and supply of labor and materials used in creating their
       products and services;

     - Financial or regulatory accounting principles or policies imposed by the
       Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
       Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and similar entities
       with regulatory oversight;

     - Availability or cost of capital such as changes in: interest rates;
       market perceptions of the power generation industry, the Company or any
       of its subsidiaries; or security ratings;

     - Factors affecting power generation operations such as unusual weather
       conditions; catastrophic weather-related damage; unscheduled generation
       outages, maintenance or repairs; unanticipated changes to fossil fuel, or
       gas supply costs or availability due to higher demand, shortages,
       transportation problems or other developments; environmental incidents;
       or electric transmission or gas pipeline system constraints;

     - Employee workforce factors including loss or retirement of key
       executives, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, or
       work stoppages;

     - Volatility of energy prices in a deregulated market environment;

     - Increased competition in the power generation industry;

     - Cost and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings,
       settlements, investigations and claims;

     - Technological developments that result in competitive disadvantages and
       create the potential for impairment of existing assets;

     - Factors associated with various investments including conditions of final
       legal closing, partnership actions, competition, operating risks,
       dependence on certain suppliers and customers, domestic and foreign
       environmental and energy regulations;

     - Limitations on the Company's ability to control the development or
       operation of projects in which the Company has less than 100% interest;

     - The lack of operating history at development projects, the lack of
       Company operating history at the projects not yet owned and the limited
       operating history at the remaining projects provide only a limited basis
       for management to project the results of future operations;

     - Risks associated with timely completion of projects located at ECKG and
       Enfield, including obtaining competitive contracts, obtaining regulatory
       and permitting approvals, local opposition, construction delays and other
       factors beyond the Company's control;


     - The failure to timely satisfy the closing conditions contained in the
       definitive agreements for the acquisitions of projects subject to
       definitive agreements but not yet closed, many of which are beyond the
       Company's control;

     - Factors challenging the successful integration of projects not previously
       owned or operated by the Company, including the ability to obtain
       operating synergies;

     - Factors associated with operating in foreign countries including: delays
       in permitting and licensing, construction delays and interruption of
       business, political instability, risk of war, expropriation,
       nationalization, renegotiation, or nullification of existing contracts,
       changes in law, and the ability to convert foreign currency into United
       States dollars;

     - Other business or investment considerations that may be disclosed from
       time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings
       or in other publicly disseminated written documents, including the
       Company's Registration Statement No. 333-93055, as amended, and all
       supplements therein.

     The Company undertakes no obligation or publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors pursuant to the Act should
not be construed as exhaustive.

ITEM 2 -- PROPERTIES

     Listed below are descriptions of the Company's interests in facilities,
operations or projects under construction as of December 31, 1999.

          INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCTION AND COGENERATION FACILITIES (1)







- ---------------
(1) Includes assets under construction.

(2) Capacity rating methods vary.

(3) Loy Yang and MIBRAG also own coal mines and sell coal both to its respective
    power plant and to third parties.

(4) Includes 69 MW on deactivated reserve.

(5) Operations suspended following buy-out of power purchase contracts and
    pending negotiation of new power purchase agreements or sale of such
    facilities.

(6) Operations are suspended.



             THERMAL ENERGY PRODUCTION AND TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
                        AND RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITIES



- ---------------
(1) Thermal production and transmission capacity is based on 1,000 Btus per
    pound of steam production or transmission capacity. The unit mmBtu is equal
    to one million Btus.

(2) Kladno also is included in the Independent Power Production and Cogeneration
    Facilities table on the preceding page.

(3) The Company operates the Elk River resource recovery facility on behalf of
    NSP.


OTHER PROPERTIES

     In addition to the above, the Company leases its offices at 1221 Nicollet
Mall, Suite 700, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403, under a five-year lease that
expires in June 2002. Additional office space is leased in San Diego, California
under a five and one-half year lease expiring in June 2004 and San Francisco,
California under a five year lease expiring in April 2005. Thermal division
leases and operates the Hennepin County Energy Center.

ITEM 3 -- LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     On or about July 12, 1999, Fortistar Capital Inc., a Delaware Corporation
(Fortistar), filed a complaint in District Court (Fourth Judicial District,
Hennepin County) in Minnesota against the Company, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and for damages as a result of the Company's alleged breach of
a confidentiality letter agreement with Fortistar relating to the Oswego
facility (Letter Agreement). The Company disputes Fortistar's allegations and
has asserted numerous counterclaims.

     A temporary injunction hearing was held on September 27, 1999. The
acquisition of the Oswego facility was closed on October 22, 1999, following
notification to the Court of Oswego Power's intention to close on that date. On
January 14, 2000, the court denied Fortistar's request for a temporary
injunction. The Company intends to continue to vigorously defend the suit and
believes Fortistar's complaint to be without merit. No trial date has been set.

     There are no other material legal proceedings pending, other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to the Company's business, to which the Company is
a party. There are no material legal proceedings to which an officer or director
is a party or has a material interest adverse to the Company or its
subsidiaries.

     There are no material administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
environmental quality or civil rights statutes pending or known to be
contemplated by governmental agencies to which the Company is or would be a
party, other than those discussed in PART I Item I -- Business, Environmental
Regulations.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5 -- MARKET PRICE OF AND DIVIDENDS ON THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     This is not applicable as the Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Northern States Power Company.



ITEM 7 -- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations is omitted per conditions as set forth in General Instructions I (1)
(a) and (b) of Form 10-K for wholly owned subsidiaries. It is replaced with
management's narrative analysis of the results of operations set forth in
General Instructions I (2) (a) of Form 10-K for wholly-owned subsidiaries
(reduced disclosure format). This analysis will primarily compare the Company's
revenue and expense items for the year ended December 31, 1999 with the year
ended December 31, 1998.

                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

     Net income for the year ended December 31, 1999, was $57.2 million, an
increase of $15.5 million or 37.2%, compared to net income of $41.7 million in
the same period in 1998. This increase was due to the factors described below.

REVENUES

     For the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company had total revenues of
$500.0 million, compared to $182.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1998,
an increase of $317.9 million or 174.5%. The Company's operating revenues from
wholly owned operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 were
$432.5 million, an increase of $332.1 million, or 330.7%, over the same period
in 1998. Approximately $303.6 million of the increase in revenues was due to the
acquisition of the NRG Northeast assets during 1999. Approximately $29.1 million
of the increase is due to increased revenues due to the consolidation of
Pittsburgh and San Francisco Thermal and the consolidation of Crockett
Cogeneration during 1999. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a
drop in the processing rates received by the Company's resource recovery
operations. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, revenues from wholly
owned operations consisted primarily of revenue from electrical generation
(78.3%), heating, cooling and thermal activities (17.6%) and technical services
(4.1%).

     Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates was $67.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999, compared to $81.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998, a decrease of $14.2 million or 17.4%. The decrease was due to
a $12.8 million reduction in earnings for the Company's interest in the West
Coast power generation facilities resulting from unfavorable weather conditions
during the summer of 1999 compared to the summer of 1998, which was more
favorable than normal. In addition, the results of operations of the West Coast
facilities were adversely impacted by project level debt that was issued during
the year. Equity earnings were also reduced by lower earnings at Mt. Poso, by
the consolidation of the Company's Thermal operations and Crockett Cogeneration
subsidiaries during 1999 and by an unfavorable currency translation adjustment
relating to the Kladno project. These reductions were partially offset by a
favorable legal settlement at CogenAmerica and increased earnings from MIBRAG.

OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES

     Cost of wholly owned operations was $269.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999. This is an increase of $217.5 million or 414.9% over the same
period in 1998. Approximately $194.9 million of this increase was due to the
acquisition of the NRG Northeast assets during 1999. The remaining increase was
due to the consolidation of the Company's Thermal operations and the addition of
new projects during 1999 by the Company's NEO subsidiary. Cost of operations, as
a percentage of revenues from wholly owned operations for the year, was 62.4%
which is 10.2% higher than the same period in 1998.

     Depreciation and amortization costs were $37.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999, compared to $16.3 million for the year ended December 31,
1998. The increase in depreciation and amortization was due primarily to the
addition of the NRG Northeast assets and the addition of new projects by the
Company's



NEO subsidiary during 1999. In addition, depreciation and amortization also
increased due to the consolidation of the Company's Thermal operations and
Crockett Cogeneration in 1999.

     General, administrative and development costs were $83.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999, compared to $56.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998. Approximately $8.0 million of the increase was due to the
acquisition of the NRG Northeast assets during 1999. The remaining increase was
due primarily to increased business development activities and increased legal,
technical, and accounting expenses resulting from expanded operations. As a
percent of total revenues, administrative and general expenses declined to 16.7%
from 31.0% during the same period one-year earlier.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Minority interest in projects was $2.5 million for the twelve-month period
compared to $2.3 million for the same period in 1998. Minority interest relates
to certain Pacific Generation projects that were acquired in November 1997 and
certain Thermal operations which have a minority interest.

     In December 1999, the Company sold a portion of its interest in
CogenAmerica, an affiliate of the Company for a pretax gain of approximately
$11.0 million ($4.1 million after-tax) to Calpine. The Company retained a 20%
interest in CogenAmerica.

     Other income was $6.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999
compared with $8.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998. The
$2.0 million decline was due primarily to a reclassification of management fees
to equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and lower interest income
from loans to affiliates.

     Interest expense was $93.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
1999 compared with $50.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998.
The increase in interest expense was due primarily to the acquisition of the NRG
Northeast assets and the incremental interest expense resulting from the $682
million of project level debt issued by NRG Northeast Generating LLC and to the
issuance of $300 million and $240 million of senior notes in June 1999 and
November 1999, respectively. Additionally, a higher average outstanding balance
of the Company's revolving line of credit and the consolidation of Crockett
Cogeneration and the Company's Thermal operations contributed to higher interest
expense.

INCOME TAX

     The Company has recognized an income tax benefit due to the recognition of
certain tax credits. The net income tax benefit for the year ended December 31,
1999, increased by $0.4 million to $26.1 million as compared to $25.7 million in
the same period one year earlier. The increase in tax benefits for the twelve
month period was due to increased interest expense on domestic debt, project
write downs and an increase in Section 29 credits related to the Company's NEO
subsidiary operations and foreign tax benefits associated with the Loy Yang
project, which was substantially offset by higher overall earnings.

YEAR 2000

     The Company incurred costs to modify or replace existing information
technology systems (including computer software) and non-information technology
systems, for uninterrupted operation in Y2K and beyond. A committee including
senior management led the Company's initiatives to identify Y2K-related issues
and to remediate business processes as necessary.

     The Company also partnered with its parent, NSP, for a consistent overall
company process in addressing the Y2K issue. The Company completed its Y2K
readiness project on schedule and was Y2K ready (including completion of final
testing) at year-end 1999.

     The Company has spent approximately $11.8 million for Y2K efforts from
1998-1999. This includes $6.0 million in 1999. These costs have been expensed as
incurred.

     To date, the Company is not aware of any material Y2K-related problems
experienced by our information technology or non-information technology systems.
Also, the Company has not been informed by any of its


material customers, suppliers or its other key business partners that any such
parties experienced any material Y2K-related problems. The Company cannot
guarantee, however, that either the Company or its key business partners will
not experience any Y2K-related problems in the future. If such problems do
occur, the Company cannot provide any assurance that they will not have any
material adverse effect on its results of operations, liquidity or business
prospects.



ITEM 7A -- QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the impact of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates on its international project cash
flows, electricity and fuel prices on margins and interest rates on the cost of
borrowing.

     The fair value of the Company's interest rate hedging contracts is
sensitive to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 1999, a 10 percent
increase in interest rates from then prevailing market rates would increase the
market value of the Company's interest rate hedging contracts by approximately
$27.8 million. Conversely, a 10 percent decrease in interest rates from the
prevailing market rates would decrease the market value by approximately $25.8
million. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements under Item 8 for further
discussion of this matter.

     During the third quarter of 1999, NRG Northeast, entered into $600 million
of "treasury locks," at various interest rates, which expired in February 2000.
These treasury locks were an interest rate hedge for an NRG Northeast bond
offering which was completed on February 22, 2000.

     During the first quarter of 2000, the Company entered into $375 million of
"treasury locks" at various interest rates, which expire in July 2000. These
treasury locks are an interest rate hedge for the NRG South Central Generating
LLC offering scheduled for the first quarter of 2000.

     The Company has an investment in the Kladno project in the Czech Republic.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 52, Foreign Currency
Translation, requires foreign currency gains and losses to flow through the
income statement if settlement of an obligation is in a currency other than the
local currency of the entity. A portion of the Kladno project debt is in a
non-local currency (U.S. dollars and German deutsche marks). As of December 31,
1999, if the value of the Czech koruna decreases by 10 percent in relation to
the U.S. dollar and the German deutsche mark, the Company would record a $5.0
million loss (after tax) on the currency transaction adjustment. If the value of
the Czech koruna increased by 10 percent, the Company would record a $5.0
million gain (after tax) on the currency transaction adjustment. These currency
fluctuations are inherent to the debt structure of the project and not
indicative of the long-term earnings potential of the investment. Kladno is the
only project the Company has at this time with this type of debt structure.

     The Company's power marketing subsidiary is exposed to the risk of changes
in market prices of fuel oil, natural gas and electricity. To manage exposure to
volatility in the fuel oil, natural gas and electricity markets, the Company
uses a variety of energy contracts, including options, swaps and forward
contracts. As of December 31, 1999, a 10 percent increase in fuel oil, natural
gas and electricity forward prices would result in a gain on these contracts of
approximately $11.9 million. Conversely, a 10 percent decrease in fuel oil,
natural gas and electricity forward prices would result in a loss on these
contacts of approximately $11.9 million. These hypothetical gains and losses on
energy forward contracts would be offset by the gains and losses on the
underlying commodities being hedged.



ITEM 8 -- FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA





                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholder
of NRG Energy, Inc.:

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related
consolidated statement of income, of stockholder's equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NRG Energy,
Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northern States Power Company) and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

March 17, 2000



                       NRG ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       NRG ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       NRG ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       NRG ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY



     Other comprehensive income is shown net of tax expenses (benefits) which
were $0 during both 1999 and 1998 and $5.9 million in 1997.

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



NOTE 1 -- ORGANIZATION

     NRG Energy, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware Corporation, was incorporated on
May 29, 1992, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern States Power Company
(NSP). Beginning in 1989, the Company was doing business through its predecessor
companies, NRG Energy, Inc. and NRG Group, Inc., Minnesota corporations, which
were merged into the Company subsequent to its incorporation. The Company and
its subsidiaries and affiliates develop, build, acquire, own and operate
non-regulated energy-related businesses.

NOTE 2 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries (referred to collectively herein as the Company). All
significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. Accounting policies for all of the Company's operations are in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
As discussed in Note 5, the Company has investments in partnerships, joint
ventures and projects for which the equity method of accounting is applied.
Earnings from equity in international investments are recorded net of foreign
income taxes.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Cash equivalents include highly liquid investments (primarily commercial
paper) with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of
purchase.

RESTRICTED CASH

     Restricted cash consists primarily of cash collateral for letters of credit
issued in relation to project development activities and funds held in trust
accounts to satisfy the requirements of certain debt agreements.

INVENTORY

     Inventory is valued at the lower of average cost or market and consists
principally of fuel oil, coal, spare parts and raw materials used to generate
steam.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment are capitalized at original cost. Significant
additions or improvements extending asset lives are capitalized, while repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation is computed
using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:



CAPITALIZED INTEREST

     Interest incurred on funds borrowed to finance projects expected to require
more than three months to complete is capitalized. Capitalization of interest is
discontinued when the project is completed and considered operational.
Capitalized interest is amortized using the straight line method over the useful
life of the related project. Capitalized interest was $287,000 and $172,000 in
1999 and 1998, respectively.

DEVELOPMENT COSTS AND CAPITALIZED PROJECT COSTS

     These costs include professional services, dedicated employee salaries,
permits, and other costs which are incurred incidental to a particular project.
Such costs are expensed as incurred until a sales agreement or letter of intent
is signed, and the project has been approved by the Company's Board of
Directors. Additional costs incurred after this point are capitalized. When
project operations begin, previously capitalized project costs are



reclassified to investment in projects and amortized on a straight-line basis
over the lesser of the life of the project's related assets or revenue contract
period.

DEBT ISSUANCE COSTS

     Costs to issue long-term debt have been capitalized and are being amortized
over the terms of the related debt.

INTANGIBLES

     Intangibles consist principally of the excess of the cost of investment in
subsidiaries over the underlying fair value of the net assets acquired and are
being amortized using the straight-line method over 20 to 30 years. The Company
periodically evaluates the recovery of goodwill and other intangibles based on
an analysis of estimated undiscounted future cash flows.

OTHER LONG TERM ASSETS

     Other long-term assets consist primarily of service agreements and
operating contracts. These assets are being amortized over the remaining terms
of the individual contracts, which range from seven to twenty-eight years.

INCOME TAXES

     The Company is included in the consolidated tax returns of NSP. The Company
calculates its income tax provision on a separate return basis under a tax
sharing agreement with NSP as discussed in Note 9. Current federal and state
income taxes are payable to or receivable from NSP. The Company records income
taxes using the liability method. Income taxes are deferred on all temporary
differences between pretax financial and taxable income and between the book and
tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are recorded using the tax
rates scheduled by law to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse.
The Company's policy for income taxes related to international operations is
discussed in Note 9.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Under fixed-price contracts, revenues are recognized as products or
services are delivered. Revenues and related costs under cost reimbursable
contract provisions are recorded as costs are incurred. Anticipated future
losses on contracts are charged against income when identified.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

     The local currencies are generally the functional currency of the Company's
foreign operations. Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are
translated at end-of-period rates of exchange. The resulting currency
adjustments are accumulated and reported as a separate component of
stockholder's equity. Income, expense, and cash flows are translated at
weighted-average rates of exchange for the period.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     To preserve the U.S. dollar value of projected foreign currency cash flows,
the Company hedges, or protects, those cash flows if appropriate foreign hedging
instruments are available. The gains and losses on those agreements offset the
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the Company's known and anticipated cash
flows. The Company defers gains on agreements that hedge firm commitments of
cash flows, and accounts for them as part of the relevant foreign currency
transaction when the transaction occurs. The Company defers expected losses on
these agreements, unless it appears that the deferral would result in
recognizing a loss later.

     While the Company is not currently hedging investments involving foreign
currency, the Company will hedge such investments when it believes that
preserving the U.S. dollar value of the investment is appropriate.



The Company is not hedging currency translation adjustments related to future
operating results. The Company does not speculate in foreign currencies.

     From time to time the Company also uses interest rate hedging instruments
to protect it from an increase in the cost of borrowing. Gains and losses on
interest rate hedging instruments are reported as part of the asset for
Investments In Projects when the hedging instrument relates to a project that
has financial statements that are not consolidated into the Company's financial
statements. Otherwise, they are reported as part of debt.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period.

     In recording transactions and balances resulting from business operations,
the Company uses estimates based on the best information available. Estimates
are used for such items as plant depreciable lives, tax provisions,
uncollectible accounts and actuarially determined benefit costs, among others.
As better information becomes available (or actual amounts are determinable),
the recorded estimates are revised. Consequently, operating results can be
affected by revisions to prior accounting estimates.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,". This statement requires that
all derivatives be recognized at fair value in the balance sheet and that
changes in fair value be recognized either currently in earnings or deferred as
a component of Other Comprehensive Income, depending on the intended use of the
derivative, its resulting designation and its effectiveness. The Company plans
to adopt this standard in the first quarter of 2001, as required. The Company
has not determined the potential impact of implementing this statement.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or stockholder's equity as
previously reported.

NOTE 3 -- ASSET ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

     In February 1999, the Company purchased from Thermal Ventures, Inc. (TVI)
the remaining 50.1% limited partnership interests held by TVI in San Francisco
Thermal Limited Partnership and Pittsburgh Thermal Limited Partnership for $12.3
million. In April 1999, NRG acquired TVI's 50% member interest in North American
Thermal Systems LLC (the entity holding the general partnership interest in the
San Francisco and Pittsburgh partnerships) for $500,000.

     In 1994, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, purchased a 50%
ownership interest in Sunnyside Cogeneration Associates, a Utah joint venture,
which owns and operates a 58 MW waste coal plant in Utah. The waste coal plant
is currently being operated by a partnership that is 50% owned by a Company
affiliate. In March 1999, the Company and its partner executed an agreement to
sell the Sunnyside project to an affiliate of Baltimore Gas & Electric for a
purchase price of $2.0 million. There was no gain or loss on the sale which
closed during the second quarter of 1999.

     In April 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of the Somerset power
station for approximately $55 million from the Eastern Utilities Association
(EUA). The Somerset station, located in Somerset, Massachusetts, includes two
coal-fired generating facilities and two aeroderivative combustion turbine
peaking units with a capacity rating of 229 MW, of which 69 MW is on deactivated
reserve. In connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into a
Wholesale Standard Offer Service Agreement pursuant to which the



Company is obligated to provide approximately 30% of the energy and capacity
requirements of certain EUA affiliates (which is estimated to be approximately
275 MW at peak requirement) until December 31, 2009.

     In May 1999, the Company and Dynegy Power Corporation (Dynegy), through
West Coast Power LLC, completed the acquisition of the Encina generating station
and 17 combustion turbines for approximately $356 million from San Diego Gas &
Electric Company. The facilities, which have a combined capacity rating of 1,218
MW, are located near Carlsbad and San Diego, California. The Company and Dynegy
each own a 50% interest in these facilities.

     In June 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the Huntley and
Dunkirk generating stations from Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (NIMO) for
approximately $355 million. The two coal-fired power generation facilities are
located near Buffalo, New York, and have a combined summer capacity rating of
1,360 MW. In connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into several
Transition Power Purchase Agreements and a related swap agreement with NIMO
pursuant to which NIMO purchases certain energy and capacity from these
facilities for a term of four years.

     In June 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the Arthur Kill
generating station and the Astoria gas turbine site from Consolidated Edison
Company of New York, Inc. (ConEd) for approximately $505 million. These
facilities, which are located in the New York City Area, have a combined
capacity rating of 1,456 MW. In connection with the acquisition of each
facility, the Company entered into (i) Transition Energy Sales Agreements
pursuant to which energy from each facility is sold to ConEd for a transition
period ending on the date on which the independent system operator in New York
State (NYISO) commences operation (which commencement date was November 18,
1999) of a spot market for energy and certain ancillary services, and (ii)
Transition Capacity Sales Agreements pursuant to which capacity from each
facility is sold to ConEd for a transition period ending on the later of (a) the
earlier of (i) December 31, 2002 or (ii) the date such facility receives notice
from the NYISO that none of the electric generating capacity of such facility is
required for meeting the installed capacity requirements in New York City, or
(b) the date the NYISO commences an auction for system capacity. Pursuant to the
Transition Energy Sales Agreements, the Company agreed to sell to ConEd at a
fixed price varying amounts of energy from the Arthur Kill generating facility
and the Astoria gas turbine generating facility, in each case in amounts to be
specified by ConEd, up to the full capability of each facility. Pursuant to the
Transition Capacity Sales Agreements, the Company agreed to sell to ConEd at a
fixed price, during certain periods, up to 100% of the capacity of the Arthur
Kill generating facility and up to 100% of the capacity of the Astoria gas
turbines facility.

     In August, the Company agreed to sell all but a 20 percent ownership
interest in Cogeneration Corporation of America (CogenAmerica) to Calpine
Corporation in connection with Calpine's acquisition of the remaining shares of
CogenAmerica. Prior to December 1999, the Company owned approximately 45% of
CogenAmerica. Upon closing of the transaction, all outstanding shares of
CogenAmerica common stock (other than those retained by the Company) were
acquired by Calpine for a cash purchase price of $25.00 per share. The
transaction closed during the fourth quarter of 1999 and the Company retained a
20% ownership interest in CogenAmerica.

     In October 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of the Oswego
generating station from NIMO and Rochester Gas and Electric for approximately
$85 million. The oil and gas-fired power generating facility which has a
capacity rating of 1,700 MW, is located on a 93-acre site in Oswego, New York.
This facility consists of two units each having a capacity rating of 850 MW. In
connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into a Transition Power
Purchase Agreement with NIMO similar to those entered into in connection with
the acquisitions of the Dunkirk and Huntley facilities. Pursuant to this
agreement, the Company has agreed to sell 100% of the capacity of one unit, an
option for up to 40% of the capacity of the other unit. The Company has agreed
to sell NIMO an option to purchase a nominal amount of energy for a term of four
years.

     In December 1999, the Company acquired four fossil fuel generating stations
and six remote gas turbines from CL&P for approximately $460 million, plus
adjustments for working capital. These facilities are located throughout
Connecticut and have a combined nominal capacity rating of 2,235 MW. The Company
entered into a Standard Offer Service Wholesale Sales Agreement with CL&P
pursuant to which the Company will


supply CL&P with 35% of its standard offer service load during 2000, 40% during
2001 and 2002, and 45% during 2003. The Company estimates that 45% of CL&P's
standard offer service load in 2003 will be approximately 2,070 MW at peak
requirement. The Agreement terminates on December 31, 2003.

     In December 1999, the Company purchased a 50% interest in the Rocky Road
Power Plant, a 250 MW natural gas fired simple-cycle peaking facility in East
Dundee, IL from Dynegy Inc., for approximately $60 million. The power plant
began commercial operations on June 30, 1999 and received approval for the
installation of an additional 100 MW natural gas combustion turbine in October
1999, increasing the facilities generating capacity to a nominal 350 MW. The
expansion is expected to be in service before the start of the peak summer 2000
season.

     Pro forma information has not been presented for the assets acquired in
1999 due to the fact that the assets acquired do not constitute businesses under
Rule 11-01(d) of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, historical financial information
does not exist for the assets acquired.

NOTE 4 -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     The major classes of property, plant and equipment at December 31 were as
follows:



NOTE 5 -- INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE EQUITY METHOD

     The Company has investments in various international and domestic energy
projects. The equity method of accounting is applied to such investments in
affiliates, which include joint ventures and partnerships, because the ownership
structure prevents the Company from exercising a controlling influence over
operating and financial policies of the projects. Under this method, equity in
pretax income or losses of domestic partnerships and, generally, in the net
income or losses of international projects are reflected as equity in earnings
of unconsolidated affiliates.



     A summary of the Company's significant equity-method investments which were
in operation at December 31, 1999 is as follows:



     Summarized financial information for investments in unconsolidated
affiliates accounted for under the equity method as of and for the year ended
December 31, is as follows:



     In accordance with FASB No. 121 "Accounting for Impairment of Long-lived
Assets to be Disposed of," the Company reviews long lived assets, investments
and certain intangibles for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate
the carrying amounts of an asset may not be recoverable. During 1998, the
Company wrote down accumulated project development expenditures of $26.7
million. The Company's West Java, Indonesia, project totaling $22.0 million was
written off due to the uncertainties surrounding infrastructure projects in
Indonesia. Also during 1998, the Company wrote off its $1.9 million investment
in the Sunnyside project and its $2.8 million investment in Alto Cachopoal. The
charge represents the difference between the carrying amount of the investment
and the fair value of the asset, determined using a cash flow model. In December
1997, the Company reviewed the carrying amount of the Sunnyside project that
failed to restructure its debt and recorded a charge of $8.9 million. The charge
represents the difference between the carrying amount of the investment and the
fair value of the asset, determined using a discounted cash flow model.



NOTE 6 -- RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

SALE TO AFFILIATE

     During October 1998, the Company sold its interest in the Mid-Continent
Power Corporation (MCPC) facility to CogenAmerica for a $2.1 million gain after
elimination of affiliate interest. The MCPC facility is a 110 MW, gas-fired
generation station located near Pryor, Oklahoma. The Company owns 20 percent of
the outstanding stock of CogenAmerica.

OPERATING AGREEMENTS

     The Company has two agreements with NSP for the purchase of thermal energy.
Under the terms of the agreements, NSP charges the Company for certain costs
(fuel, labor, plant maintenance, and auxiliary power) incurred by NSP to produce
the thermal energy. The Company paid NSP $4.4 million in 1999 and $5.1 million
in 1998 under these agreements.

     The Company has a renewable 10-year agreement with NSP, expiring on
December 31, 2001, whereby NSP agrees to purchase refuse-derived fuel for use in
certain of its boilers and the Company agrees to pay NSP a burn incentive. Under
this agreement, the Company received $1.4 million and $1.4 million from NSP, and
paid $2.7 million and $3.1 million to NSP in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES AND OTHER COSTS

     The Company and NSP have entered into an agreement to provide for the
reimbursement of actual administrative services provided to each other, an
allocation of NSP administrative costs and a working capital fee. Services
provided by NSP to the Company are principally cash management, legal,
accounting, employee relations, benefits administration and engineering support.
In addition, the Company employees participate in certain employee benefit plans
of NSP as discussed in Note 10. During 1999 and 1998, the Company paid NSP $6.4
million and $5.2 million, respectively, as reimbursement under this agreement.

     In 1996, the Company and NSP entered into an agreement for the Company to
provide operations and maintenance services for NSP's Elk River resource
recovery facility and Becker ash landfill. During 1999 and 1998, NSP paid the
Company $1.9 million and $1.7 million, respectively, as compensation under this
agreement.



NOTE 7 -- NOTES RECEIVABLE

     Notes receivable consists primarily of fixed and variable rate notes
secured by equity interests in partnerships and joint ventures. The notes
receivable at December 31, are as follows:





NOTE 8 -- LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:



     The NRG Energy Center, Inc. notes are secured principally by long-term
assets of the Minneapolis Energy Center (MEC). In accordance with the terms of
the note agreement, MEC is required to maintain compliance with certain
financial covenants primarily related to incurring debt, disposing of MEC
assets, and affiliate transactions. MEC was in compliance with these covenants
at December 31, 1999.

     The note payable to NSP relates to long-term debt assumed by the Company in
connection with the transfer of ownership of a Refuse Derived Fuel processing
plant by NSP to the Company in 1993.

     The NRG Energy $125 million, $250 million, $300 million and $240 million
senior notes are unsecured and are used to support equity requirements for
projects acquired and in development. The interest is paid semi-annually and the
ten-year senior notes mature in February 2006, June 2007, and 2009. The fourteen
year notes mature in November 2013.

     The $240 million of NRG Energy Senior notes due November 1, 2013 are
remarketable or redeemable Security (ROARS). November 1, 2003 is the first
remarketing date for these notes. Interest is payable semi-annually beginning
May 1, 2000 through November 1, 2003, and then at intervals and interest rates
as discussed in the indenture. On the remarketing date, the notes will either be
mandatorily tendered to and purchased by Credit Suisse Financial Products or
mandatorily redeemed by the Company at prices discussed in the indenture. The
notes are unsecured debt that rank senior to all of the Company's existing and
future subordinated indebtedness.



     The NRG San Diego, Inc. promissory note is secured principally by long-term
assets of the San Diego Power & Cooling Company.

     The various NEO notes are term loans. The loans are secured principally by
long-term assets of NEO Landfill Gas collection system. NEO Landfill Gas is
required to maintain compliance with certain covenants primarily related to
incurring debt, disposing of the NEO Landfill Gas assets, and affiliate
transactions.

     The Camas Power Boiler LP notes are secured principally by long-term
assets. In accordance with the terms of the note agreements, Camas Power Boiler
LP is required to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants primarily
related to incurring debt, disposing of assets, and affiliate transactions.
Camas Power Boiler was in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 1999.

     The Crockett Corporation term loan is secured by primarily the long-term
assets of the Crockett Cogeneration project.

     The O'Brien Cogen II promissory note is payable on the earlier of the first
anniversary of the effective date (August 31, 1999) or upon the sale of the
assets at the O'Brien Cogen II facility. Full payment of the note is guaranteed
by the Company.

     Annual maturities of long-term debt for the years ending after December 31,
1999 are as follows:



     The Company has $550 million in revolving credit facilities under a
commitment fee arrangement. These facilities provide short-term financing in the
form of bank loans and letters of credit. At December 31, 1999, the Company has
$340 million outstanding under its revolving credit agreements.

     The Company had $116 million and $33.6 million in outstanding letters of
credit as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     In December 1999, the Company filed a shelf registration with the SEC to
issue up to $500 million of unsecured debt securities. The Company expects to
issue debt under this shelf during 2000 for general corporate purposes, which
may include financing, development and construction of new facilities, additions
to working capital and financing capital expenditures and pending or potential
acquisitions.

     On February 22, 2000, NRG Northeast Generating issued $750 million of
senior secured bonds to refinance short-term project borrowings and for certain
other purposes. The bond offering included three tranches: $320 million with an
interest rate of 8.065 percent due in 2004, $130 million with an interest rate
of 8.842 percent due in 2015 and $300 million with an interest rate of 9.292
percent due in 2024. The Company used $647 million of the proceeds to repay
short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1999; accordingly, $646.6
million of short term debt has been re-classified as long-term debt, based on
this refinancing.

     In March 2000, the Company issued $250 million of 8.70 percent 20-year
remarketable or redeemable securities through an unconsolidated grantor trust.
The funds were subsequently converted to 160 million pound sterling and will be
used to finance the Company's investment in the Killingholme Power Station in
England.

     In March 2000, NRG South Central Generating LLC, a subsidiary of the
Company, issued $800 million of senior secured bonds in a two-part offering. The
first tranche was for $500 million with a coupon of 8.962 percent and a maturity
of 2016. The second tranche was for $300 million with a coupon of 9.479 percent
and a maturity of 2024. The proceeds will be used to finance the Company's
investment in the Cajun generating facilities.



GUARANTEES

     The Company may be directly liable for the obligations of certain of its
project affiliates and other subsidiaries pursuant to guarantees relating to
certain of their indebtedness, equity and operating obligations. One example is
the Company's guarantee of the obligations of its project subsidiary that
operates the Gladstone facility for up to AU$25 million, indexed to the
Australian consumer price index, under the project subsidiary's operating and
maintenance agreement with the owners of the facility. In addition, in
connection with the purchase and sale of fuel, emission credits and power
generation products to and from third parties with respect to the operation of
some of the Company's generation facilities in the United States, the Company
may be required to guarantee a portion of the obligations of certain of its
subsidiaries. As of December 31, 1999, the Company's obligations pursuant to its
guarantees of the performance, equity and indebtedness obligations of its
subsidiaries totaled approximately $416.4 million.

NOTE 9 -- INCOME TAXES

     The Company and its parent, NSP, have entered into a federal and state
income tax sharing agreement relative to the filing of consolidated federal and
state income tax returns. The agreement provides, among other things, that (1)
if the Company, along with its subsidiaries, is in a taxable income position,
the Company will be currently charged with an amount equivalent to its federal
and state income tax computed as if the group had actually filed separate
federal and state returns, and (2) if the Company, along with its subsidiaries,
is in a tax loss position, the Company will be currently reimbursed to the
extent its combined losses are utilized in a consolidated return, and (3) if the
Company, along with its subsidiaries, generates tax credits, the Company will be
currently reimbursed to the extent its tax credits are utilized in a
consolidated return. The provision for income taxes consists of the following:





     The components of the net deferred income tax liability at December 31
were:



     The effective income tax rate for the years 1999, 1998 and 1997 differs
from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to state tax,
foreign tax, and tax credits as shown above, income and expenses from foreign
operations not subject to U.S. taxes (as discussed below).

     The Company intends to reinvest the earnings of foreign operations except
to the extent the earnings are subject to current U.S. income taxes.
Accordingly, U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been
provided on a cumulative amount of unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries
of approximately $195 million and $158 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998.
The additional U.S. income tax and foreign withholding tax on the unremitted
foreign earnings, if repatriated, would be offset in whole or in part by foreign
tax credits. Thus, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that
might be payable.

NOTE 10 -- BENEFIT PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

PENSION BENEFITS

     The Company participates in NSP's noncontributory, defined benefit pension
plan that covers substantially all employees, other then those employed as a
result of the NE Generating asset acquisitions. Benefits are based on a
combination of years of service, the employee's highest average pay for 48
consecutive months, and Social Security benefits. Plan assets principally
consist of the common stock of public companies, corporate bonds and U.S.
government securities. The Company's net annual periodic pension cost includes
the following components:

COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST





     The Company discontinued funding its pension costs in 1998 due to the
effects of funding limitations from employee benefit and tax laws on NSP's plan.
Plan assets consist principally of common stock of public companies, corporate
bonds and U.S. government securities. The funded status of the pension plan in
which the Company employees participate is as follows at December 31:

RECONCILIATION OF FUNDED STATUS



AMOUNT RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET



     The weighted average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation was 7.5% for December 31, 1999
and 6.5% for December 31, 1998. The rate of increase in future compensation
levels used in determining the actuarial present value of the projected
obligation was 4.5% in 1999 and 4.5% in 1998. The assumed long-term rate of
return on assets used for cost determinations was 8.5% for 1999 and 1998 and
9.0% for 1997.

     Effective Jan. 1, 1998, NSP changed its method of accounting for subsidiary
pension costs under SFAS No. 87. The new method, which now allocates plan assets
based on subsidiary benefit obligations, was adopted to better match earnings on
total plan assets with the corresponding subsidiary benefit obligations. The
effect of this change decreased periodic pension costs by $2.9 million in 1998
from 1997 levels, including $1.3 million related to periods prior to the change.
The effects of this change have not been reported separately on the income
statement and prior periods have not been restated due to immateriality.



NRG EQUITY PLAN

     Employees are eligible to participate in the Company's Equity Plan (the
Plan). The Plan grants phantom equity units to employees based upon performance
and job grade. The Company's equity units are valued based upon the Company's
growth and financial performance. The primary financial measures used in
determining the equity units' value are revenue growth, return on investment and
cash flow from operations. The units are awarded to employees annually at the
respective year's calculated share price (grant price). The Plan provides
employees with a cash pay out for the unit's appreciation in value over the
vesting period. The Plan has a seven year vesting schedule with actual payments
beginning after the end of the third year and continuing at 20% each year for
the subsequent five years. During 1999 and 1998, the Company recorded
approximately $13 million and $2.6 million, respectively for the Plan.

     The Plan includes a change of control provision, which allow all shares to
vest if the ownership of the Company were to change.

POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH CARE

     The Company participates in NSP's contributory health and welfare benefit
plan that provides health care and death benefits to substantially all employees
after their retirement. The plan, was terminated for nonbargaining employees
retiring after 1998 and for bargaining employees retiring after 1999. is
intended to provide for sharing of costs of retiree health care between the
Company and retirees. For covered retirees, the plan enables the Company to
share the cost of retiree health costs. Nonbargaining retirees pay 40 percent of
total health care costs. Cost-sharing for bargaining employees is governed by
the terms of the collective bargaining agreement.

     Postretirement health care benefits for the Company are determined and
recorded under the provisions of SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions." SFAS No. 106 requires the
actuarially determined obligation for postretirement health care and death
benefits to be fully accrued by the date employees attain full eligibility for
such benefits, which is generally when they reach retirement age.

     The Company's net annual periodic benefit cost under SFAS No. 106 includes
the following components:

COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST



     Plan assets as of December 31, 1999 consisted of investments in equity
mutual funds and cash equivalents. The Company's funding policy is to contribute
to NSP benefits actually paid under the plan.



     The following table sets forth the funded status of the health care plan in
which the Company employees participate at December 31:

RECONCILIATION OF FUNDED STATUS



     The assumed health care cost trend rates used in measuring the accumulated
projected benefit obligation (APBO) at both December 31, 1999 and 1998, were
8.1% for those under age 65, and 6.1 % for those over age 65. The assumed cost
trends are expected to decrease each year until they reach 5.0% for both age
groups in the year 2004, after which they are assumed to remain constant. A one
percent increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase the
APBO by approximately $36 thousand as of December 31, 1999. Service and interest
cost components of the net periodic postretirement cost would increase by
approximately $2 thousand with a similar one percent increase in the assumed
health care cost trend rate. The assumed discount rate used in determining the
APBO was 6.5% for both December 31, 1999 and 1998, compounded annually. The
assumed long-term rate of return on assets used for cost determinations under
SFAS No. 106 was 8% for 1999, 1998 and 1997

PENSION BENEFITS -- 1999 ACQUISITIONS

     During 1999, the Company acquired several generating assets and assumed
benefit obligations for a number of employees associated with those
acquisitions. The plans assumed included noncontributory defined benefit pension
formulas, matched 401(k) savings plans, and contributory post-retirement welfare
plans. Approximately, 56 percent of the Company's benefit employees are
represented by eight local labor unions under collective bargaining agreements,
which expire between 2000 and 2003.



     The Company sponsors one noncontributory, defined benefit pension plan that
covers most of the employees associated with the 1999 acquisitions. Generally,
the benefits are based on a combination of years of service, the final average
pay and Social Security benefits.

COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST



RECONCILIATION OF FUNDED STATUS



AMOUNT RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET



     The weighted average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation was 7.5% for December 31,
1999. The rate of increase in future compensation levels used in determining the
actuarial present value of the projected obligation was 4.5% for nonunion
employees and 3.50% for union employees. The assumed long-term rate of return on
assets used for cost determinations was 8.5% for 1999.



POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH CARE

     The Company has also assumed post retirement health care benefits for some
of the Company's employees associated with the 1999 acquisitions. The plan
enables the Company and the retirees to share the costs of retiree health care.
The cost sharing varies by acquisition group and collective bargaining
agreements. There are no existing Company retirees under these plans as of
December 31, 1999. Complete valuation data is not available for some of these
groups. The estimated net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1999 is $0.85
million. The estimated accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation is $12
million at December 31,1999.

401(K) PLANS

     The Company also assumed several contributory, defined contribution
employee savings plans as a result of its 1999 acquisition activity. These plans
comply with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code and cover substantially
all of the Company's employees who are not covered by NSP's 401(k) Plan. The
Company matches specified amounts of employee contributions to the plan.
Employer contributions made to the Company's plans were approximately $0.31
million in 1999.

NOTE 11 -- SALES TO SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS

     During 1999, the Company's electric power generation operations located in
the northeastern part of the United States, NRG Northeastern Generating LLC,
accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's total revenues from wholly
owned operations. Sales to three customers accounted for 10.5%, 21.0% and 19.7%
of total revenues from wholly owned operations in 1999. During 1999, the Company
entered into transition agreements with these customers providing for the sale
of energy and other ancilliary services generated from certain electric
generating facilities recently acquired from these customers and others. These
agreements generally range from four to ten years in duration.

     The Company and the Ramsey/Washington Resource Recovery Project have a
service agreement for waste disposal, which expires in 2006. Approximately 26.5%
in 1998 of the Company's operating revenues were recognized under this contract.
In addition, sales to one thermal customer amounted to 10.3% of operating
revenues in 1998.

NOTE 12 -- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The estimated December 31 fair values of the Company's recorded financial
instruments are as follows:



     For cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, the carrying amount
approximates fair value because of the short-term maturity of those instruments.
The fair value of notes receivable is based on expected future cash flows
discounted at market interest rates. The fair value of long-term debt is
estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company had no contracts to hedge or protect
foreign currency denominated future cash flows. One contract that was executed
during 1999 had no material effect on earnings.



     During the third quarter of 1999, NRG Northeast, a wholly owned subsidiary
of the Company entered into $600 million of "treasury locks," at various
interest rates, which expired in February 2000. These treasury locks were an
interest rate hedge for an NRG Northeast bond offering that was completed on
February 22, 2000. The proceeds of this bond offering were used to pay down
borrowings under a NRG Northeast's existing short-term credit facility.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company had three interest rate swap
agreements with notional amounts totaling approximately $393 million. The
contracts are used to manage the Company's exposure to changes in interest
rates. If the swaps had been discontinued on December 31, 1999, the Company
would have owed the counterparties approximately $3 million. Management believes
that the Company's exposure to credit risk due to nonperformance by the
counterparties to its hedging contracts is insignificant, based on the
investment grade rating of the counterparties.

     - In September 1999, the Company entered into a $200 million swap agreement
       effectively converting the 7.5 percent fixed rate on its senior notes to
       a variable rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate. The swap
       expires on June 1, 2009.

     - A second swap effectively converts a $16 million issue of variable rate
       debt into a fixed rate debt. The swap expires on September 30, 2002.

     - A third swap converts $177 million of variable rate debt into fixed rate
       debt. The swap expires on December 17, 2014.

     The Company's Power Marketing subsidiary uses energy forward contracts
along with physical supply, to hedge market risk in the energy market. At
December 31, 1999, the notional amount of energy forward contracts was
approximately $207 million.

     If the contracts had been terminated at December 31, 1999, the Company
would have received approximately $12.0 million based on price fluctuations to
date. Management believes the risk of counterparty nonperformance with regard to
any of the Company's hedging transactions is not significant.

NOTE 13 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under operating
leases, some of which include escalation clauses, expiring on various dates
through 2010. Rental expense under these operating leases was $5.4 million in
1999 and $1.7 million in 1998. Future minimum lease commitments under these
leases for the years ending after December 31, 1999 are as follows:



     The Company expects to invest approximately $2.7 billion in 2000 and
approximately $4.7 billion for the five-year period 2000 - 2004 for nonregulated
projects and property, which include acquisitions and projects investments. The
Company's capital requirements for 2000 reflect expected acquisitions of
existing generation facilities, including Cajun, Killingholme A and the Conectiv
fossil assets.



CAPITAL COMMITMENTS -- INTERNATIONAL

     In November 1999, the Company agreed to purchase the 665 MW Killingholme A
station from National Power plc. Killingholme A was commissioned in 1994 and is
a combined-cycle, gas-turbine power station located in England. The purchase
price for the station will be approximately 410 million pounds sterling
(approximately $662 million U.S. at end of year exchange rates), subject to
commercial adjustments. The purchase price includes 20 million pounds sterling
(approximately $32 million U.S. at end of year exchange rates) that is
contingent upon the successful completion of negotiations regarding NRG's
purchase of National Power's Blyth generating facilities. The Blyth assets
consist of two coal-fired stations totaling 1,140 MW of generation capacity
located in England.

CAPITAL COMMITMENTS -- DOMESTIC

     The Company, together with its partner and the creditors's committee filed
a plan with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of
Louisiana to acquire 1,708 MW of fossil generating assets from Cajun Electric
Power Cooperative of Baton Rouge, Louisiana (Cajun) for approximately $1.0
billion The consortium has the support of the Chapter 11 trustee and Cajun's
secured creditors. During the third quarter of 1999, the U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
confirmed the creditors plan of reorganization and the Company exercised an
option to purchase its partner's 50 percent interest in the project. The Company
expects to close the acquisition of the Cajun assets during the first quarter of
2000.

     In January 2000, the Company agreed to purchase 1,875 MW of fossil-fueled
electric generating capacity and other assets from Conectiv of Wilmington,
Delaware for $800 million. The fossil-fueled generating facilities consist of
Conectiv's wholly owned BL England, Deepwater, Indian River and Vienna steam
stations plus Conectiv's interest in the Conemaugh and Keystone steam stations.
Other assets in the purchase are the 241-acre Dorchester site located in
Dorchester County, Maryland, certain Merrill Creek Reservoir entitlements in
Harmony Township, New Jersey and certain excess emission allowances.

     In January 2000, the Company executed a memorandum of understanding with GE
Power Systems, a division of General Electric Company, to purchase 11 gas
turbine generators and five steam turbine generators. The purchase will take
place over the next five years and is valued at approximately $500 million with
an option to purchase additional units. The 16 turbines have an equivalent
generation output of 3,000 MW and will be installed at the Company's existing
North American plant sites.

     The Company has contractually agreed to the monetization of certain tax
credits generated from landfill gas sales through the year 2007.

     Future capital commitments related to projects are as follows:



SOURCE OF CAPITAL

     The Company anticipates funding its ongoing capital commitments through the
issuance of debt, additional equity from NSP, and operating cash flows. In
addition, the Company may issue a limited amount of equity financing to third
parties for funding a portion of the capital requirements.

CONTINGENT REVENUES

     During 1999, the first year of deregulation in the state of New York power
industry, the Company has claims related to certain revenues earned during the
period April 27, 1999 to December 31, 1999. The Company is actively pursuing
resolution and/or collection of these amounts, which totaled approximately $8.9
million as of December 31, 1999. These amounts have not been recorded in the
financial statements and will



not be recognized as income until disputes are resolved and collection is
assured. The contingent revenues relate to interpretation of certain transition
power sales agreements and to sales to the NYPP and NEPOOL, conflicting meter
readings, pricing of firm sales and other power pool reporting issues.

CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS

     Arthur Kill Power and Astoria Power have entered into agreements with ConEd
that obligate them to maintain the electric generating capability and
availability of their respective facilities at specified levels for the terms of
these agreements, and whereby during certain periods, ConEd will purchase
specified amounts of capacity, as long as the capacity is counted in the
installed capacity requirement for New York City. The capacity must satisfy all
criteria, standards and requirements applicable to providers of installed
capacity established by the New York State Reliability Counsel ("NYSRC"), the
Northwest Power Coordinating Council ("NPCC"), the North American Electric
Reliability Council ("NERC"), the New York Power Pool (NYPP) or the NYISO.
Should the capacity of the facility drop below the minimum level required, the
subsidiary owning the facility will pay to ConEd a deficiency charge. The
sellers may use electric capacity other than that generated by their own plants
to satisfy ConEd's demands.

     The respective subsidiary will bill ConEd for the electricity capacity sold
and ConEd will bill that subsidiary for any capacity deficiency payments on a
monthly basis. Any amount unpaid after it is due will accrue interest. Any
dispute on the amount payable will first be settled by good faith negotiation
among the parties.

     For the next four years, the Company estimates that a significant portion
of the total revenues from the Dunkirk and Huntley facilities will be derived
from four-year transition contracts for capacity and energy. All forward
capacity is sold to NIMO during the transition period, with the remainder of
energy sold to the NYISO. Each of the following agreements was executed on June
11, 1999 and extends for a term of four years.

     To hedge its transition to market rates, NIMO has required NRG Power
Marketing to enter into an International Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) Master
Agreement (together with the Schedule, the Confirmation and the Guarantee
Agreement, the "Swap Agreement"). Under the Swap Agreement, NIMO will pay to NRG
Power Marketing a fixed monthly price for the Dunkirk (units 1, 2, 3 and 4) and
Huntley (units 67 and 68 only) facilities' capacity and ancillary services and
NRG Power Marketing will pay to NIMO the market rates for the related capacity
and ancillary services. The swap is only a financial contract and it
incorporates the terms of the ISDA Master Agreement.

     NIMO will have the right from time to time to exercise a call option for an
additional swap pursuant to which, within a certain limit consistent with
outages and availability requirements, NIMO will nominate certain amounts of
energy from the Dunkirk and Huntley facilities and will pay to NRG Power
Marketing an amount for such energy determined in accordance with the heat rate
curve representing the nominated unit. NRG Power Marketing will pay to NIMO the
market rates for such energy at the time that the energy was nominated. However,
NRG Power Marketing may refuse the call option for either of the facilities if a
facility is unexpectedly forced off-line or derated sufficiently to be unable to
fulfill the portion of the specified quantity of power in the option. Any such
refusal of the call option will be limited to the Decline Quantity Cap, which is
calculated based upon the capacity of the relevant facility for the prior six
months. NIMO will be entitled to make up for any refused call option in the
future by delivering reasonable notice to NRG Power Marketing.

     In addition to the Swap Agreement, Huntley Power has entered into an
agreement with NIMO that gives NIMO the option to purchase from the Huntley
facility certain quantities of electricity generated by Huntley units 65 and 66,
during the summer and winter months, up to a specified maximum limit for the
term of this agreement. If Huntley Power is selling the electrical output
generated by units 65 and 66 to a third party, Huntley Power may refuse to
deliver such output to NIMO. Furthermore, if unit 65 or 66 is generating for
NIMO, Huntley Power has the right to "recall" the unit(s) in order to facilitate
a sale to a third party. If Huntley Power fails to meet NIMO's quantity request
for electricity output, it will compensate NIMO. NIMO will pay Huntley Power
according to the amount of electricity output delivered to NIMO, on a monthly
basis. Control and title pass at the point of delivery of the energy and each
party agrees to indemnify



the other against any claims arising out of any act or incident occurring during
the period when control and title of the electricity is vested in the
indemnifying party.

     Huntley Power has also entered into an agreement with NIMO that gives NIMO
the option to purchase from Huntley Power certain quantities of electricity
generated by Huntley units 67 or 68 (during peak and off-peak summer hours),
within a specified range of MW per hour, not to exceed 189 MW for any one hour
during the peak hours, for the term of the agreement. If Huntley Power fails to
meet NIMO's quantity request for electricity, Huntley Power will compensate NIMO
for quantities not provided. NIMO will pay Huntley Power according to the amount
of power delivered to NIMO, on a monthly basis. Control and title passes at the
point of delivery of the energy and each party shall indemnify the other party
from any claims arising out of any act or incident occurring during the period
when control and title of the electricity is vested in the indemnifying party.

     Oswego Power has entered into a four-year transition power sales contract
with NIMO in order to hedge its transition to market rates. Under the agreement,
NIMO will pay to Oswego Power a fixed monthly price plus start up fees for the
right, but not the obligation, to claim, at a specified delivery point or
points, the installed capacity of unit 5 of the Oswego facility, and for the
right to exercise, at a specified price, an option for an additional 350 MW of
installed capacity. The total amount of energy which Oswego Power must supply
under the call option is limited to a nominal amount of energy per year. Oswego
Power may refuse such option if the facility is unexpectedly unavailable or
derated sufficiently to be unable to fulfill the option, as long as Oswego Power
uses "good utility practice" to maintain the power stations. Oswego Power may
also choose to supply the energy required from another source as long as
adjustment is made for any difference in value between the agreed upon delivery
point and the actual point of delivery. In the event that Oswego Power is unable
to provide from its own sources installed capacity of unit 5 in the amount
claimed by NIMO, Oswego Power must procure the capacity from the market and
provide it to NIMO at no additional cost or else suffer a penalty.

     NRG Power Marketing has entered into a Wholesale Standard Offer Service
Agreement, dated October 13, 1998 and amended as of January 15, 1999 (the "WSO
Agreement"), with Blackstone Valley Electric Company, Eastern Edison Company,
and Newport Electric Corporation (collectively the "EUA Companies"), which
obligates NRG Power Marketing to provide each of the EUA Companies with firm
all-requirements electric service, including capacity, energy, reserves, losses
and related services necessary to serve a specified share of the EUA Companies'
aggregate load attributable to retail customers taking standard offer service.
NRG Power Marketing assumes all expenses, liabilities and losses, regulatory or
economical, related to such service. NRG Power Marketing may supply the power to
the EUA Companies at any point on the New England Power Pool transmission
facilities system or on the EUA Companies' system.

     The price for each unit of electricity is a combination of a fixed price
plus a fuel adjustment factor. The EUA Companies will calculate the estimated
power supplied each month and pay to NRG Power Marketing the price for such
electricity before the end of the next month. Any amounts unpaid by the due date
will accrue interest. The EUA Companies may make retroactive adjustments to the
bills for up to one year after the date of the original billing. NRG Power
Marketing must meet certain creditworthiness criteria for the term of the
agreement, or must provide a guaranty from an entity which meets the
creditworthiness criteria. The term extends from April 26, 1999, the closing
date of the asset purchase agreement until December 31, 2009. The agreement may
also be terminated in the case of an event of default or if the facility's
electric service requirement is less than 1 MW/hr for two consecutive months.

     In 1999, the Company entered into a Standard Offer Service Wholesale Sales
Agreement with CL&P. The Company will supply CL&P with 35 percent of its
standard offer service load during 2000, 40 percent during 2001 and 2002, and 45
percent during 2003. The four year contract is valued at $1.7 billion. The
Company will serve the load with a combination of existing generation and power
purchases.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     Environmental controls at the federal, state, regional and local levels
have a substantial impact on the Company's operations due to the cost of
installation and operation of equipment required for compliance.


AIR

     On October 12, 1999, the Company received a letter from the Office of the
Attorney General of the State of New York speculating that based on a
preliminary analysis, it believes that significant modifications were made to
the Huntley and Dunkirk facilities during NIMO's ownership of these facilities
without obtaining Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and/or New
Source Review (NSR) permits. The letter requested documents related to historic
maintenance, repair, and replacement work at the facilities, as well as other
data related to operations and emissions from these facilities. On January 12,
2000, the Company received a formal request from the New York Department of
Environmental Conservation (NYDEC) seeking essentially the same documents
covered by the Attorney General's letter. The Company understands that the NYDEC
request supercedes the Attorney General's request. Although, the Company does
not have knowledge that NIMO failed to comply with the preconstruction permit
requirements at the Huntley and Dunkirk facilities, the Company has only
recently initiated steps to investigate more fully allegations to the contrary.
If it is determined that these facilities did not comply with the PSD or NSR
permit programs, the Company could be required among other things, to install
pollution control technology to further control the emissions of nitrogen oxide
(NO(X)) and sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) from the Huntley and Dunkirk facilities. By
virtue of conditions imposed under the asset sale agreement between the Company
and NIMO (the Company's rights and obligations under the asset sale agreement
were substantially assigned to Huntley Power LLC and Dunkirk Power LLC), NIMO
remains responsible for "any fines, penalties and assessments imposed by a
governmental entity with respect to violation or alleged violation of
Environmental Law which occurred prior to the Closing Date." Even so, the
Company could become subject to fines and/or penalties associated with the
period of time it has operated the facilities.

     On October 14, 1999, Governor Pataki of New York directed the Commissioner
of the NYDEC to require further reductions of SO(2) emissions and NO(X)
emissions from New York power plants, beyond that which is required under
current federal and state law. Under Governor Pataki's directive NO(X) emissions
during the "non-ozone" season would be reduced to levels consistent with those
currently mandated for the "ozone" season under the Ozone Transport Commission's
Memorandum of Understanding. This additional reduction requirement would be
phased in between January 1, 2003 and January 2, 2007. In addition, Governor
Pataki announced that he is ordering a reduction of S02 emissions by 50% beyond
the requirements of the Federal Acid Rain Program. These reductions would also
be phased in between January 1, 2003 and January 1, 2007. Compliance with these
emission reduction requirements, if they become effective, could have a material
impact on the operation of the Company's facilities located in the State of New
York.

     On November 3, 1999, in the southern and mid-western regions of the United
States, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) filed suit against seven
electric utilities for alleged violations of the Federal Clean Air Act (the
Clean Air Act) NSR and PSD permit requirements at seventeen utility generating
stations located in the southern and mid-western regions of the United States.
In addition, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) issued
administrative notices of violation alleging similar violations at eight other
power plants owned by certain of the electric utilities named as defendants in
the DOJ lawsuit, and also issued an administrative order to the Tennessee Valley
Authority for similar violations at seven of its power plants. The DOJ lawsuit
alleges that the defendants, over a period of twenty years, undertook
modifications at their generating stations that resulted in increased air
emissions without complying with stringent regulatory requirements governing
such modifications. Subsequent to the DOJ lawsuit, New York, Connecticut and New
Jersey have brought their own lawsuits against American Electric Power, an Ohio
based utility holding company, and have sought to intervene in the DOJ lawsuit.
To date, no lawsuits or administrative actions have been brought against the
Company or the former owners of the facilities alleging violations of the NSR or
PSD requirements. However, there is a likelihood that future lawsuits alleging
similar violations may be filed against additional electric utility generating
stations. The Company can provide no assurance that lawsuits or administrative
actions alleging violations of PSD and NSR requirements will not be filed in the
future.

     The State of Connecticut has in the past considered legislation that would
require older electrical generating stations to comply with more stringent
pollution standards for NO(X) and SO(2) emissions. During the 1999 legislative
session, the Connecticut House of Representatives voted in favor of such
legislation. The


House bill was referred to the Energy Technology Committee where no action was
taken. Similar legislation has been introduced as part of the 2000 legislative
session.

SITE CONTAMINATION/REMEDIATION

     With the acquisition of the NRG Northeast assets, the Company assumed
certain liabilities for existing environmental conditions at the sites with the
exception of off-site liabilities associated with the disposal of hazardous
materials and certain other environmental liabilities. The Company has not
assumed responsibility for any contamination resulting from the September 7,
1998 explosion and subsequent fire involving a transformer containing PCBs at
the Arthur Kill Station. The transformer explosion, fire and subsequent oil
spill resulted in the release of PCB's to the environment. Consolidated Edison
Company of New York, Inc. maintains responsibility for the remediation of the
PCB and other contamination associated with this event.

     Environmental site assessments have been prepared for all of the recently
acquired NRG Northeast assets. The remediation activities at the Arthur Kill,
Astoria Gas Turbine and Somerset facilities are still in the study phase. As
such, the remediation cost estimates are based on approaches that have not been
approved yet by the regulatory agencies involved. Data from additional
investigations performed at the Astoria Gas Turbines and the approach being
taken at the Somerset Station may result in less costly remediation efforts than
originally estimated.

     For the Connecticut facilities, the Company is planning to conduct
additional studies to better quantify remedial need. Such studies include the
preparation of risk assessments to justify remedial actions proposed by the
Company to the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection and U.S. EPA.

COSTS

     The Company has recorded approximately $5.8 million for expected
environmental costs related to site remediation issues at the Arthur Kill,
Astoria facilities and Somerset facilities. These amounts are based on the
environmental assessments for these sites.

     The Company has budgeted approximately $44 million for capital expenditures
between 2000 and 2004 for environmental compliance, which includes the above
remedial investigations, the installation of NO(X) control technology at the
Somerset facility, intake screens at the Dunkirk facility, the resolution of
consent orders for remediation at the Arthur Kill and Astoria facilities and the
resolution of a consent order for water intake at the Arthur Kill facility.

CLAIMS AND LITIGATION

     On or about July 12, 1999, Fortistar Capital Inc., a Delaware Corporation
(Fortistar), filed a complaint in District Court (Fourth Judicial District,
Hennepin County) in Minnesota against the Company, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and for damages as a result of the Company's alleged breach of
a confidentiality letter agreement with Fortistar relating to the Oswego
facility (Letter Agreement).

     The Company disputes Fortistar's allegations and has asserted numerous
counterclaims.

     A temporary injunction hearing was held on September 27, 1999. The
acquisition of the Oswego facility was closed on October 22, 1999, following
notification to the Court of Oswego Power's intention to close on that date. On
January 14, 2000, the court denied Fortistar's request for a temporary
injunction. The Company intends to continue to vigorously defend the suit and
believes Fortistar's complaint to be without merit. No trial date has been set.

     The Company is involved in various other litigation matters. The Company is
actively defending these matters and does not feel the outcome of such matters
would materially impact the Company's results of operations.



NOTE 14 -- SEGMENT REPORTING

     The Company conducts its business within three segments: Independent Power
Generation, Alternative Energy (Resource Recovery and Landfill Gas) and Thermal
projects. These segments are distinct components of the Company with separate
operating results and management structures in place. The "Other" category
includes operations that do not meet the threshold for separate disclosure and
corporate charges that have not been allocated to the operating segments.







- ---------------
(a) Revenues from wholly-owned operations are from external customers located in
    the United States.

(b) The Company has significant equity investments for non-regulated projects
    outside of the United States. Equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates,
    primarily independent power projects, includes $33.5 million in 1999, $29.3
    million in 1998 and $27.1 million in 1997 from non-regulated projects
    located outside of the United States. The Company's equity investments in
    projects outside of the United States were $602.4 million in 1999, $591
    million in 1998 and $517 million in 1997.



ITEM 9 -- CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

     None.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14 -- EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1)  Consolidated Financial Statements
        Included in Part II.

(a)(2)  Supplemental Financial Statement Schedules

            Exhibit 99.1 contains the financial statements of Mitteldeutsche
            Braunkohlengesell Schaft mbH ("MIBRAG").

            Exhibit 99.2 contains the financial statements of Saale Energie GmbH
            ("Saale").

            Exhibit 99.3 contains the financial statements of Sunshine State
            Power BVI and Sunshine State Power BVII (the "Sunshines").

            Exhibit 99.4 contains the financial statements of NRG West Coast
            Power LLC ("West Coast Power").

            All other financial statement schedules have been omitted because
            either they are not required or the information required to be set
            forth therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
            or in the Notes thereto.

(a)(3)  Exhibits











                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 30, 2000.

                                                     NRG ENERGY, INC.

                                          By:     /s/ LEONARD A. BLUHM
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      Leonard A. Bluhm
                                             Executive Vice President and Chief
                                                      Financial Officer

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     Each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints David H.
Peterson and Leonard A. Bluhm, each or any of them, such person's true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent with full power of substitution and
resubstitution for such person and in such person's name, place and stead, in
any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this report on Form
10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing necessary or desirable to be done in
and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
any of them or his or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.

     In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities indicated on
March 30, 2000:



     SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED WITH REPORTS FILED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 15(d) OF THE ACT BY REGISTRANTS WHICH HAVE NOT REGISTERED SECURITIES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE ACT.

     An annual report will be sent to security holders and will be
supplementally filed with the Commission. Such annual report to security holders
shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission or otherwise subject to the
liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. No proxy
material will be sent to security holders.

