
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
     ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997.

( )  TRANSITION  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ______ TO________.

                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 333-33397

                                NRG ENERGY, INC.
                                ----------------
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

           DELAWARE                                            41-1724239
           --------                                            ----------
   (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION                            (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
   OF INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                       IDENTIFICATION NO.)

       1221 NICOLLET MALL, SUITE 700
         MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA                                 55403
         ----------------------                                 -----
   (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                   (ZIP CODE)

                                 (612) 373-5300
                                 --------------
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicated by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports to
     be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
     during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
     Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to
     such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No
                                                       ---   ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
     405 of Regulations S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
     to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
     information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
     10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Yes  X  No
                                                  ---    ---

     As of March 30, 1998, there were 1,000 shares of common stock, $1.00 par
     value, outstanding, all of which were owned by Northern States Power
     Company. No other voting or non-voting common equity is held by
     non-affiliates of the Registrant.

     The Registrant meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I (1)
     (a) and (b) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing this Form with the reduced
     disclosure format.

     Documents Incorporated by Reference: None





INDEX
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                        PAGE NO.
                                                                        --------
PART I

Item 1       Business                                                       1

Item 2       Properties                                                    14

Item 3       Legal Proceedings                                             19

Item 4       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders -          -
             Omitted per General Instruction I (2) (c)

PART II

Item 5       Market Price of & Dividends on the Registrant's 
             Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters                 20

Item 6       Selected Financial Data - Omitted per General 
             Instruction I(2)(a)                                            -

Item 7       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial             21
             Condition and Results of Operations

Item 8       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                   24

Item 9       Changes in & Disagreements with Accountants on                48
             Accounting and Financial Disclosure

PART III

Item 10      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant             -
             Omitted per General Instruction I (2)(c)

Item 11      Executive Compensation - Omitted per General                   -
             Instruction I (2)(c)                                           

Item 12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and            -
             Management - Omitted per General Instruction I (2) (c)

Item 13      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions - Omitted       -
             per General Instruction I(2) (c)

PART IV

Item 14      Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules and Reports          49
             On Form 8-K

SIGNATURES                                                                 51









PART I
ITEM 1 - BUSINESS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GENERAL

         NRG Energy, Inc., ("NRG") is one of the leading participants in the
independent power generation industry. Established in 1989 and wholly-owned by
Northern States Power Company ("NSP"), NRG is principally engaged in the
acquisition, development and operation of, and ownership of interests in,
independent power production and co-generation facilities, thermal energy
production and transmission facilities and resource recovery facilities. The
power generation facilities in which NRG currently has interests (including
those under construction) as of December 31, 1997 have a total design capacity
of 8,516 megawatts ("MW"), of which NRG has or will have total or shared
operational responsibility for 5,374 MW and net ownership of, or leasehold
interests in 2,650 MW. In addition, NRG has substantial interests in district
heating and cooling systems and steam generation and transmission operations. As
of December 31, 1997, these thermal businesses had a steam capacity of
approximately 3,550 million British thermal units ("mmBtus"). NRG's
refuse-derived fuel ("RDF") plants processed more than 800,000 tons of municipal
solid waste into approximately 650,000 tons of RDF during 1997.

         NRG has experienced significant growth in the last year, expanding from
1,353 MW of net ownership interests in power generation facilities (including
those under construction) as of December 31, 1996 to 2,650 MW of net ownership
interests as of December 31, 1997. This growth resulted primarily from a number
of domestic and international investments and acquisitions. NRG's total
operating revenues and equity in earnings of projects changed from $104.5
million and $32.8 million in 1996 to $118.3 million and $26.2 million,
respectively, in 1997.

         NRG's headquarters and principal executive offices are located at 
1221 Nicollet Mall, Suite 700, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403. Its telephone 
number is (612) 373-5300.

STRATEGY

         NRG intends to continue to grow through a combination of acquisition
and greenfield development of power generation and thermal energy production and
transmission facilities and related assets in the United States and abroad. In
the United States, NRG's near-term focus will be primarily on the acquisition of
existing power generation capacity and thermal energy production and
transmission facilities, particularly in situations in which its expertise can
be applied to improve the operating and financial performance of the facilities.
In the international market, NRG will continue to pursue development and
acquisition opportunities in those countries in which it believes that the
legal, political and economic environment is conducive to increased foreign
investment.


SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS IN 1997

         On February 11, 1997, NRG purchased 7.2% (4.5 million shares) of the
common stock of Energy Developments Limited ("EDL"), an Australian Company, for
AUS$9.9 million (US$7.9 million on that date). EDL is engaged in independent
power generation from landfill gas, coal seam methane, and natural gas and owns
approximately 184 MW of operating projects primarily in Australia. On September
24, 1997, NRG purchased an additional 10.1 million shares of common stock of EDL
for an aggregate purchase price of AUS$22.2 million (US$16.1 million on that
date), bringing NRG's ownership level to 19.97% of the outstanding shares of
EDL. EDL's common stock is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. Its share
price as of December 31, 1997 was AUS$2.77 (US$2.08). In addition, NRG was
granted an option to acquire 16.8 million convertible non-voting preference
shares of EDL at AUS$2.20 per share. The preference shares do not become
convertible into EDL's common stock unless a takeover bid is made 




for EDL by a person who is not an affiliate of the owner of the preference
shares and such person is, or becomes, entitled to purchase more than 35% of
EDL's outstanding common stock. In such event, if EDL fails to comply with an
obligation to appoint directors nominated by the owner of the preference shares,
the preference shares convert at the option of the owner to common shares of EDL
on a share-for-share basis. NRG expects to exercise its option and acquire 16.8
million preference shares of EDL during the second quarter of 1998.

         In May 1997, NRG consummated the largest acquisition in its history,
acquiring a 25.37% interest in the assets of a 2,000 MW brown coal fired thermal
power station and adjacent coal mine located in Victoria, Australia and known as
Loy Yang A ("Loy Yang"). The State of Victoria sold Loy Yang as part of its
privatization program to a partnership formed by affiliates of NRG and of CMS
Generation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of CMS Enterprises), together with Horizon
Energy Investment Limited (an investment vehicle of Macquarie Bank), for a total
price of approximately AUS$4.7 billion (or US$3.7 billion as of May 12, 1997).
While most of the purchase price was raised through project-financed loans and
leveraged leases that are non-recourse to the sponsors, NRG's equity investment
was approximately US$257 million.

         In June 1997, NRG purchased the San Diego Power & Cooling Company
("SDPC"). The purchase price was $6.7 million, including a note to the seller
for $2.7 million, payable over 72 months. The remaining amount, with the
exception of a $50,000 contingency, was paid in cash. SDPC serves the cooling
needs of thirteen major customers in the downtown San Diego central business
district through an underground piping system. SDPC's chilled water capacity is
5,250 tons/hour.

         In June 1997, NRG and its partners closed the financing for the
refurbishment and expansion of the Energy Center Kladno plant in Kladno, The
Czech Republic. NRG owns a 34% interest in the existing 28 MW coal-fired
project, which also supplies thermal energy. Non-recourse project financing was
provided by a consortium of Czech banks, the International Finance Corporation,
Nisshi Iwai and ABB. This financing will fund the refurbishment of the existing
facility as well as the construction of a new 354 MW expansion project. NRG
currently holds a 57.85% interest in the expansion project, and El Paso Energy
International and Stredoceska Energeticka ("STE"), the regional Czech electric
distribution company, hold the balance. NRG's total equity commitment in this
project is approximately $46 million.(See "Item 2 - Properties for details on 
ownership.")

         On November 4, 1997, NRG acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of
Pacific Generation Company ("PGC"), which was a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary
of PacifiCorp, for a cash purchase price of approximately $148.8 million. PGC
has ownership interests in 11 projects with a total capacity of 737 MW, of which
PGC has operational responsibility for 312 MW and net ownership interest of 166
MW. In addition, PGC owns limited partnership interests in Energy Investors
Funds, through which it owns an allocated share equal to 39MW of additional
ownership interests. One of PGC's projects is located in Canada and the other
ten are broadly distributed throughout the United States.

         On December 12, 1997, NRG and its partner, Indeck Energy Services
(Europe), obtained financing commitments for the Enfield Energy Centre, a 396 MW
gas-fired power project under construction in the North London borough of
Enfield in the United Kingdom. NRG has a 50% interest in the project, which is
planned to begin commercial operations at the end of 1999. NRG's total equity
commitment to this project is approximately $28 million.

         In December 1997, through a consensual Chapter 11 bankruptcy, NRG
acquired the assets of Mid-Continent Power Company, Inc. ("MCPC") in exchange
for forgiveness of debt. The project is a gas-fired cogeneration plant with a
rated capacity of 120 MW, located in Pryor, Oklahoma. Concurrently, with the
asset acquisition, NRG reduced its interest in the project to 50% with Decker
Energy International ("Decker") and its affiliate owning the remaining 50%. On
December 31, 1997, NRG and Decker agreed to sell the facility to its major
customer, Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company ("OG&E"), in order to settle
outstanding disputes with OG&E relating to OG&E's obligation to purchase power
from the facility. The sale price to OG&E is 





approximately $25.4 million. The sale has been approved by the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission and is now awaiting approval from the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission. In January 1998, NRG received notice from its affiliate,
NRG Generating (U.S.) Inc. ("NRGG"), that NRGG believed that it was entitled to
purchase the MCPC facility under the terms of the Co-Investment Agreement
between NRG and NRGG. (See "Significant Equity Investments - NRG Generating
(U.S.) Inc." for a description of the Co-Investment Agreement). NRG and NRGG 
have submitted this issue to arbitration in accordance with the terms of the 
Co-Investment Agreement. (See "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings".)

SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INVESTMENTS
                                 LOY YANG POWER

         Loy Yang owns and operates a 2,000 MW brown coal fired thermal power
station (the "Power Station") and the adjacent Loy Yang coal mine (the "Mine")
located in the Latrobe Valley, Victoria, Australia. The Power Station has four
generating units, each with a 500 MW boiler and turbo generator, which commenced
commercial operation between July 1984 and December 1988. In addition, Loy Yang
manages the common infrastructure facilities which are located on the Loy Yang
site, which services not only the Power Station, but also the adjacent Loy Yang
B 1000 MW power station ("Loy Yang B"), a pulverized dried brown coal plant, 
and several other nearby power stations.

         Loy Yang is required by law to sell its entire output of electricity
(subject to certain narrow exemptions) through the competitive wholesale 
market for electricity operated and administered by the Victorian Power 
Exchange (the "Pool"). There are two components to the wholesale electricity 
market in Victoria. The first is the Pool. The second is the price hedging 
contracts, known as Contracts for Differences ("CFDs"), that are entered 
into between electricity sellers and buyers in lieu of traditional power 
purchase agreements, which are not available in Victoria because of the Pool 
system.

       Under the Victorian regulatory system, all electricity generated in
Victoria must be sold and purchased through the Pool. All licensed generators
and suppliers, including Loy Yang, are signatories to a pooling and settlement
agreement, which governs the constitution and operation of the Pool and the
calculation of payments due to and from generators and suppliers. The Pool also
provides centralized settlement of accounts and clearing. Prices for electricity
are set by the Pool daily for each half-hour of the following day based on the
bids of the generators and a complex set of calculations matching supply and
demand and taking account of system stability, security and other costs. Under a
new national electricity market, the grid in Victoria has been interconnected
with that of New South Wales and limited trading is already taking place between
those states. Over the long term, there are plans for the interconnection of the
eastern seaboard states to establish what will be known as a national power
pool.

         In a Pool system, it is not possible for a generator such as Loy Yang
to enter into traditional power purchase agreements. In order to provide a hedge
against Pool price volatility and also to support their financings, most of the
Victorian generators have entered into CFDs with the Victorian distribution
companies, Victorian government entities and industrial users ("customers").
These CFDs are financial hedging instruments which have the effect of fixing the
price for a specified quantity of electricity for a particular seller and
purchaser over a defined period. They establish a "strike price" for a certain
volume of electricity purchased by the user during a specified period;
differences between that "strike price" and the actual price set by the Pool
give rise to "difference payments" between the parties at the end of the period.
Even if Loy Yang is producing less than its contracted quantity it will still be
required to make and will be entitled to receive difference payments for the
amounts set forth in its CFDs.

         Loy Yang's current CFDs with the Victorian distribution companies and
other Victorian government entities in respect of regulated customer load (which
are called its "vesting contracts") cover approximately 73% of Loy Yang's
forecast revenue from generation for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1998. 




Loy Yang also enters into CFDs with its unregulated or "contestable" customers; 
these CFDs are known as "hedging contracts" and, together with the vesting 
contracts with the regulated customers, they cover approximately 93% of Loy 
Yang's forecast load through June 30, 1998. Each of the vesting contracts
expires at the end of the franchise period (December 31, 2000), by which time
all retail customers will have become "contestable customers" by operation of
law.  Loy Yang's hedging contracts are generally for a term of one to two
years, and the volume of load covered by these contracts will increase as
retail customers progressively become contestable. Loy Yang's goal is to cover
85% of its forecast load with hedging contracts.

         Loy Yang and the State Electricity Commission of Victoria (the "SECV")
have been issued with a joint mining license for the Mine. Under the terms of
the privatization, Loy Yang is required to mine coal to supply not only its own
Power Station but also the neighboring Loy Yang B and an additional future 
power station that could be developed on a nearby site. This requirement 
extends to 2027, but may be extended for an additional 30 years at the SECV's 
option. Loy Yang receives a fixed capacity charge and a variable energy charge 
for these services, coupled with a system of initiatives and penalties. Loy 
Yang has over 70 years of economically viable coal supply at current usage 
rates within its mine license area, even assuming that it is required to 
continue supplying coal to the other parties beyond 2026.

                             GLADSTONE POWER STATION

         The Gladstone Power Station ("Gladstone") is a 1,680 MW coal-fired
power generation facility located in Gladstone, Australia. NRG acquired a 37.5%
ownership interest in Gladstone when the facility was privatized in March 1994.
The other participants in this acquisition are subsidiaries or affiliates of
Comalco Limited, Marubeni Corporation, Sumitomo Corporation and Sumitomo Light
Metal Industries, Mitsubishi Corporation and Mitsubishi Materials Corporation,
and Yoshida Kogyo (the "Participants"). NRG Gladstone Operating Services Pty.
Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NRG ("NRG Gladstone"), operates Gladstone
under an operations and maintenance agreement expiring in 2011.

         Gladstone sells electricity to the Queensland Transmission and Supply
Corporation ("QTSC") and also to Boyne Smelters Limited located at Boyne Island,
Queensland ("the Smelter"). Pursuant to an Interconnection and Power Pooling
Agreement (the "IPPA"), the Participants have the right to interconnect
Gladstone to the QTSC system and QTSC is obligated to accept all electricity
generated by the facility (subject to merit order dispatch), for an initial term
of 35 years. QTSC also has agreed under the IPPA to permit the Smelter to
interconnect to the QTSC system and to provide sufficient generating capacity on
its system in order to provide an uninterrupted supply of power to the Smelter
in most circumstances. The Participants are obligated to maintain a 35% reserve
margin for the Smelter design load, but the QTSC is obligated to provide
capacity support to the Participants to make up any shortfall between the
available capacity from Gladstone and the Smelter demand at any given time.

         The QTSC also entered into a 35-year Capacity Purchase Agreement (a
"CPA") with each of the Participants for its percentage of the capacity of
Gladstone, excluding that sold directly to the Smelter. Under the CPAs, the
Participants are paid both a capacity and an energy charge by the QTSC. The
capacity charge is designed to cover the projected fixed costs allocable to the
QTSC, including debt service and an equity return, and is adjusted to reflect
variations in interest rates. A capacity bonus is also available if the
Equivalent Availability Factor exceeds 88% on a rolling average basis, and
damages are payable by the Participants if it is less than 82% on that same
basis. As of December 31, 1997, the two-year average Equivalent Availability
Factor was 89.6%. The QTSC also pays an energy charge, which is intended to
cover fuel costs.

         The owners of the Smelter ("BSL") have also entered into a Block A PPA
and Block B PPA with each Participant, providing for the sale and purchase of
such Participant's percentage share of capacity allocated to the existing
Smelter. The term of each of these PPAs is 35 years. BSL is obligated to pay to
each Participant a demand charge that is intended to cover the fixed costs of
supplying capacity to the existing Smelter and the Smelter expansion, including
debt service and return on equity. BSL also is obligated to pay an energy charge





based on the fuel cost associated with the production of energy from the
facility. NRG anticipates that the Smelter expansion will result in an increase
in Gladstone capacity utilization from approximately 41% in 1994 to an estimated
60% in 1998 and 70% in 1999.

         NRG Gladstone is responsible for operation and maintenance of Gladstone
pursuant to a 17-year Operation and Maintenance Agreement that commenced in
1994. NRG Gladstone is entitled to a base fee of AUS$1.25 million per year
indexed in accordance with Australian CPI (approximately $.942 million, based on
exchange rates and ACPI in effect at December 31, 1997), and an annual bonus
based on the capacity bonuses to which the Participants are entitled under the
CPAs. NRG Gladstone is obligated to pay liquidated damages for shortfalls in
availability in an amount calculated by reference to the liquidated damages
payable by the Participants under the CPAs and the PPAs. NRG Gladstone's
obligations under the Operation and Maintenance Agreement are unconditionally
guaranteed by NRG, subject to an aggregate liability cap of AUS$25 million
indexed in accordance with ACPI (approximately $18.7 million, based on exchange
rates and ACPI in effect at December 31, 1997).

                           COLLINSVILLE POWER STATION

         The Collinsville Power Station ("Collinsville") is a 189 MW coal-fired
power generation facility located in Collinsville, Australia. In March 1996, NRG
acquired a 50% ownership interest in Collinsville when it was privatized by the
Queensland State government. NRG's partner in this acquisition is Transfield
Holdings Pty Ltd ("Transfield"), an Australian infrastructure contractor, with
which NRG formed an unincorporated joint venture to refurbish this plant. The
joint venture contracted with an affiliate of Transfield to complete the
refurbishment of the facility under a turn-key contract. The operation and
maintenance of the facility will be undertaken by Collinsville Operations Pty
Ltd, a 50% owned subsidiary of NRG which has entered into a technical services
agreement with NRG for some staffing and assistance with certain operational and
maintenance functions.

         The Collinsville facility failed to achieve its scheduled commercial
operation date of March 1, 1998. NRG expects the commercial operation date to
occur in May 1998. The joint venture is liable to QTSC under the PPA for
liquidated damages of approximately AUS $27,000 per day until the facility
achieves commercial operation. In addition, the joint venture is liable for
further liquidated damages if the capacity of the refurbished plant is less than
177.25 MW. Total liquidated damages which NRG and Transfield can be required to
pay to QTSC under the power purchase agreement with QTSC (the "Collinsville
PPA") are limited to AUS $5 million (indexed in April 1995 dollars). In
addition, the QTSC will have the right to terminate the Collinsville PPA if,
among other things, the tested capacity of the facility is not at least 160 MW
by September 1, 1998. The joint venture's remedies under the turn-key
refurbishment contract with Transfield include a reduction in the contract price
of AUS $110,000 per day from and after March 1, 1998, until the facility
achieves a tested capacity of 160 MW. Transfield has indicated to NRG that it
intends to dispute the price reduction. No assurance can be given with respect
to the outcome of such dispute.

                             SCHKOPAU POWER STATION

         In 1993, NRG and PowerGen plc of the United Kingdom each acquired a 50%
interest in a German limited liability company, Saale Energie GmbH ("Saale").
Saale then acquired a 41.1% interest in a 960 MW coal-fired power plant that was
under construction in the city of Schkopau, which is located in the former East
Germany. A German energy company, VEBA Kraftwerke Ruhr AG ("VKR"), owns the
remaining 58.9% interest in Schkopau and operates the plant. The partnership of
Saale and VKR that owns the plant is called Kraftwerk Schkopau GbR ("KS").

         The first 425 MW unit of the Schkopau plant began operation in January
1996, the 110 MW turbine went into commercial operation in February 1996, and
the second 425 MW unit came on line in July 1996. Acceptance testing of all of
the individual pieces of equipment has been completed.




         VKR operates and maintains the Schkopau facility under an operation and
maintenance contract with Kraftwerk Schkopau Betriebsgesellschaft mbH, a German
limited liability company ("KSB"), in which Saale and VKR hold interests of
44.4% and 55.6%, respectively, and which is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the facility pursuant to certain agreements with each of Saale
and VKR. VKR is paid a management fee for such services made up of several
variable components that will be adjusted according to changes in, among other
things, labor costs, producer prices for light fuel oil and prices for
electricity. Pursuant to the KSB partnership agreement between Saale and VKR and
the Saale shareholders agreement between NRG and PowerGen, NRG has the right to
participate in the oversight of facility operations and in the approval and
oversight of facility budgets and policies. The plant is fueled by brown coal
(lignite) which will be provided under a long-term contract by MIBRAG's Profen
lignite mine.

         Pursuant to the KS partnership agreement between Saale and VKR, each
partner has been allocated a share of capacity and energy generated by the
facility. Saale sells its allocated 400 MW portion of the plant's capacity under
a 25-year contract with VEAG, a major German utility which controls the
high-voltage transmission of electricity in the former East Germany. VEAG pays a
price that is made up of three components, the first of which is designed to
recover installation and capital costs, the second to recover operating and
other variable costs, and the third to cover fuel supply and transportation
costs. NRG receives 50% of the net profits from these VEAG payments through its
ownership interest in Saale.

                                     MIBRAG

         NRG owns an indirect 33-1/3% interest in the equity of Mitteldeutsche
Braunkohlengesellschaft mbH ("MIBRAG") which owns coal mining, power generation
and associated operations, all of which are located south of Leipzig, Germany.
MIBRAG is a corporation formed by the German government following the
reunification of East and West Germany, to hold two open-cast brown coal
(lignite) mining operations, a lease on an additional mine, three lignite-fired
industrial cogeneration facilities and briquette manufacturing and coal dust
plants, all located in the former East Germany. In connection with the
acquisition, NRG and its partners agreed to invest (from cash flow from MIBRAG
operations) in excess of DM 1 billion (US$556 million based on the exchange rate
as of December 31, 1997) by December 31, 2004 to modernize the existing mines
and power generation facilities and to develop new open-pit mines. The German
government is obligated to provide certain guarantees of bank loans to MIBRAG
relating to capital improvements to the Schleenhain mine. MIBRAG also agreed to
operate the three power generation facilities until 2005, to operate the
briquette plants in accordance with market demand until 2005, and to operate the
lignite mines until continued operation of the mines is no longer economically
justifiable. In addition, MIBRAG has made certain employee retention commitments
until 2000. Under the provisions of the sale and purchase agreement, NRG and its
partners agreed to make a deferred payment of DM 40 million to the German
government in the year 2009. This obligation will be reduced by certain costs
incurred by MIBRAG. The remaining obligation at December 31, 1997 was DM 15.7
million (or US$8.7 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 1997). NRG
expects the entire obligation will be offset by ongoing costs prior to the year
2009.

         MIBRAG's cogeneration operations consist of the 100 MW Mumsdorf
facility, the 60 MW Deuben facility and the 40 MW Wahlitz facility. These
facilities provide power and thermal energy for MIBRAG's coal mining operations
and its briquette manufacturing plants. All power not consumed by MIBRAG's
internal operations is sold under an eight-year power purchase agreement with
Westsachsische Energie Aktiengesellschaft ("WESAG"), a recently privatized
German electric utility. NRG and PowerGen jointly, through Saale, provide
consulting services for a fee for the operation of the MIBRAG steam and power
generation facilities, the associated electrical and thermal transmission and
distribution system and the briquette manufacturing plants, under a power
consultancy agreement with MIBRAG for the life of the facilities. After some
retrofitting was completed by MIBRAG, NRG believes that all three of these
cogeneration facilities now satisfy the current European Union environmental
regulations. MIBRAG leases these cogeneration facilities under a 13-year lease
pursuant to which MIBRAG has operating control of, and a 1% interest in, the
facilities.





         MIBRAG's lignite mine operations include Profen, Zwenkau and
Schleenhain (which is under construction but has not yet commenced operations),
with total estimated reserves of 776 million metric tons. Morrison Knudsen, an
international mining company, provides consulting services to mines under a
consultancy agreement with MIBRAG for the life of the mines. In addition to
providing approximately 3 million tons of lignite per year for MIBRAG's three
cogeneration facilities and one briquette facility, output from these mines
supplies lignite to the Schkopau power station and other facilities. The total
output of the new Schleenhain mine will be dedicated to the new 1600 MW
Lippendorf power station. MIBRAG is currently supplying coal for the existing
Lippendorf and Thierbach power generation facilities, but they are expected to
close in 1999 when the new Lippendorf facility is scheduled to commence
operations.

                                      COBEE

         In December 1996, NRG acquired an interest in Compania Boliviana de
Energia Electrica S.A.-Bolivian Power Company Limited ("COBEE"), the second
largest generator of electricity in Bolivia. The acquisition was consummated
through a Netherlands corporation, Tosli Investments B.V. ("Tosli"), which is
50% owned by subsidiaries of NRG and Vattenfall AB of Sweden ("Vattenfall"). On
December 19, 1996, Tosli completed a successful tender offer for the shares of
COBEE, which were listed on the New York Stock Exchange, acquiring 96.6% of
COBEE's outstanding common shares for a total purchase price of $175 million.
COBEE shares were delisted in January 1997. The COBEE board of directors
consists of three designees of NRG, three designees of Vattenfall and three
directors appointed jointly by NRG and Vattenfall. In addition, in December
1996, the Chief Executive Officer of NRG was elected as chairman of the board of
directors of COBEE.

         COBEE has entered into an Electricity Supply Contract with Electricidad
de La Paz S.A., a Bolivian distribution company ("Electropaz"), which provides
that COBEE shall supply Electropaz with all of the electricity that COBEE can
supply, up to the maximum amount of electricity required by Electropaz to supply
the requirements of its distribution concession. This Electricity Supply
Contract expires in December 2008. COBEE has entered into a substantially
similar contract with Empresa de Luz Fuerza Electricade Oruro, S.A., another 
Bolivian distribution company, ("ELF"). Electropaz and ELF are both wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Ibedrola S.A., a Spanish utility company. All payments by
Electropaz and ELF are in local currency, tied to the value of the U.S. dollar.

         COBEE operates its electric generation business under a 40-year
Concession granted by the Government of Bolivia in 1990, as most recently
amended in March 1995. Under this Concession, COBEE is entitled to earn a return
of 9% after all operating expenses, depreciation, taxes and interest expense,
calculated on its U.S. dollar rate base, consisting of net fixed assets at
historical cost in U.S. dollars and working capital and materials up to certain
limits. The Bolivian Electricity Code also provides for the adjustment of rates
to compensate COBEE for any shortfall or to recapture any excess in COBEE's
actual rate of return during the previous year. COBEE periodically applies to
the Superintendent of Electricity for rate increases sufficient to provide its
9% rate of return based on COBEE's current operating results and its projection
of future revenues and expenses.

                           NRG GENERATING (U.S.) INC.

         On January 18, 1996, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New
Jersey awarded NRG the right to acquire a 41.86% equity interest in O'Brien
Environmental Energy, Inc. ("O'Brien"), which emerged from bankruptcy on April
30, 1996 and was renamed "NRG Generating (U.S.) Inc." ("NRGG"). NRG currently
holds 45.21% of the common stock of NRGG. The remaining 54.79% of the common
stock is held publicly. NRGG has interests in four domestic operating projects
with an aggregate capacity of approximately 346 MW. NRGG's principal operating
projects include: (a) the 52 MW Newark Boxboard Project (which is owned 100% by
a wholly-owned project subsidiary of NRGG), a gas-fired cogeneration facility
that sells electricity to Jersey Central Power & Light Company ("JCP&L") and 
steam to Newark Group Industries, Inc.; (b) the 122 MW E.I. du Pont Parlin 
Project (which is owned 100% by a wholly-owned project subsidiary of NRGG), a 
gas-fired cogeneration facility that sells 





electricity to JCP&L and steam to E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company; (c) an
83% interest in a 22 MW standby/peak sharing facility which provides electricity
and standby capabilities for the Philadelphia Municipal Authority; and (d) a 
33.33% interest in the 150 MW Grays Ferry project, a gas-fired cogeneration 
project located in Philadelphia, which sells electricity to PECO Energy Company 
("PECO"). PECO recently attempted to terminate the PPA with respect to the 
Grays Ferry project. The Grays Ferry partnership in turn commenced litigation 
claiming there is not basis for termination of such agreement. (See "Item 3 - 
Legal Proceedings.")

         NRG provides NRGG with administrative services in connection with
day-to-day operations. NRG employees serve as NRG's designees on the board of
directors of NRGG. NRG and NRGG also entered into a "Co-Investment Agreement,"
pursuant to which NRG granted NRGG a right of first offer until May, 2003 to
acquire from NRG each energy development project first developed or acquired by
NRG for which a co-investor is required because of federal or state regulatory
restrictions on NRG's ownership. In addition, NRG has agreed that, prior to May
1, 1999, a minimum of one or more such projects, having an aggregate equity
value of at least $60 million or a minimum power generation capacity of 150 MW,
will be so offered. To facilitate NRGG's ability to acquire projects under the
Co-Investment Agreement, NRG is obligated to provide financing to NRGG (on
commercially competitive terms) to the extent that NRGG is unable to obtain 
funds on comparable terms from other sources.

         Pursuant to the Co-Investment Agreement, NRGG acquired from NRG 100% of
the membership interests in NRG (Morris) Cogen, LLC on December 30, 1997. NRG
(Morris) Cogen has the exclusive right to build a 117 MW cogeneration plant that
is presently under construction on the site of the Equistar Chemicals, LP
manufacturing facility in Morris, Illinois. NRG has committed to finance the
acquisition price pursuant to a loan agreement between NRG and NRGG. NRG has
guaranteed the obligation of NRGG to invest equity into the project company to
the lenders to the project company, for which The Chase Manhattan Bank is agent.

         NRG has also agreed to certain provisions designed to protect the
rights of the holders of the equity in NRGG that is not owned by NRG. These
provisions include super-majority voting requirements with respect to a merger
or sale of all or substantially all of NRGG's assets and certain additional
issuances of NRGG stock, the creation of an independent committee of the board
of directors of NRGG with authority to, among other things, determine whether
NRGG will exercise its right of first offer under the Co-Investment Agreement
and a commitment that, for a seven-year period following NRG's investment in
NRGG, NRG will not remove or vote against the re-election to NRGG's board of
directors of any of the three directors who constitute the independent directors
committee.

         NRGG and NRG have entered into various loan agreements. At December 31,
1997, the loan balance due to NRG was $2,624,204 with a maturity date of April
30, 2001.

         NRGG's shares are traded on The NASDAQ National Market under the symbol
"NRGG". NRGG's closing share price as of December 31, 1997 was $19.875.

                                    SUNNYSIDE

         In 1994, NRG, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, purchased a 50 percent
ownership interest in Sunnyside Cogeneration Associates, a Utah joint venture,
which owns and operates a 58 MW waste coal plant in Utah. The waste coal plant
is currently being operated by a partnership that is 50 percent owned by an NRG
affiliate. As of year-end 1997, NRG and its partner's effort to restructure the
debt of the Sunnyside project was not successful. Due to the lack of progress in
restructuring the debt, NRG recorded a nonrecurring expense, as of December 31,
1997, of $8.9 million to write down its investment in the Sunnyside project.







SIGNIFICANT WHOLLY-OWNED OPERATIONS

                        MINNEAPOLIS ENERGY CENTER ("MEC")

         MEC provides steam and chilled water to customers in downtown
Minneapolis, Minnesota. MEC currently provides 90 customers with 1.6 billion
pounds of steam per year and 34 customers with 39.1 million ton hours of chilled
water per year. NRG acquired MEC in August 1993 for approximately $110 million.
MEC's assets include two combined steam and chilled water plants, three chilled
water plants, two steam plants, six miles of steam and two miles of chilled
water distribution lines. The MEC plants have a combined steam capacity of 1,323
mmBtus per hour (388 MWt) and cooling capacity of 35,550 tons per hour.

         MEC provides steam and chilled water to its customers pursuant to
energy supply agreements which expire at varying dates from December 1998 to
March 2018. Historically, MEC has renewed its energy supply agreements as they
near expiration. With minor exceptions, these agreements are standard form
contracts providing for a uniform rate structure consisting of three components:
a demand charge designed to recover MEC's fixed capital costs, a consumption
charge designed to provide a per unit margin, and an operating charge designed
to pass through to customers all fuel, labor, maintenance, electricity and other
operating costs. The demand and consumption charges are adjusted in accordance
with the Consumer Price Index every five years.

                                    ROCK-TENN

         Rock-Tenn process steam operation, which is owned and operated by NRG,
consists of a five-mile closed-loop steam/condensate line that delivers steam to
the Rock-Tenn Company (formerly Waldorf Corporation), a paper manufacturer in
St. Paul, Minnesota, and has a peak steam capacity of 430 mmBtus per hour (126
MWt). As a result of the settlement of a 1987 dispute between Waldorf and
NORENCO Corporation (a predecessor of NRG), Waldorf prepaid revenues for future
steam service. As of December 31, 1997, deferred revenues remaining were $4.7
million. Rock-Tenn's corrugated medium operations are on 24-hour a day, 7-day a
week schedule. The corrugated medium operations represent approximately 40% of
normal steam sales.

         NRG delivers steam to Rock-Tenn pursuant to a steam sales agreement
which expires in 2007. Under the agreement Rock-Tenn is obligated to purchase
its total energy needs for its St. Paul, Minnesota facility through June 30,
2007. The agreement does not obligate Rock-Tenn to purchase a minimum quantity
of energy. Instead, Rock-Tenn's failure to acquire a certain quantity of energy
during a given contract year triggers an NRG right to terminate the agreement,
unless Rock-Tenn elects to compensate NRG for the deficit energy usage amount.

                                 NEO CORPORATION

         NEO is a wholly-owned project subsidiary of NRG that was formed to
develop small power generation facilities, ranging in size from 1 to 50 MW, in
the United States. NEO is currently focusing on the development and acquisition
of landfill gas projects and the acquisition of hydroelectric projects.

         Through the investment vehicle Northbrook Energy, L.L.C.
("Northbrook"), NEO has a 50% interest in eighteen small operating hydroelectric
projects, ranging in size from 1 MW to 6 MW and having a total capacity of 39.3
MW. As of December 31, 1997, NEO's total investment in these projects was $3.9
million. NEO also loaned $3.7 million to Omega Energy Partners, L.L.C. ("Omega")
to fund Omega's 50% equity interest in Northbrook.

         NEO has a 50% interest in fourteen operating landfill gas projects, as
of December 31, 1997, ranging in size from 1 MW to 10 MW. As of December 31,
1997, NEO's equity investment in these projects totaled $1.0 million and loans
to fund development, construction and start-up amounted to $55 million. In
addition, NEO has six landfill gas projects under construction. NEO expects its
total funding requirements to be approximately $60 million, and total capacity
of the portfolio is expected to reach 73 MW in 1998.




         On September 24, 1997, certain affiliates of NEO entered into a
Construction, Acquisition and Term Loan Agreement with Lyon Credit Corporation
("Lyon") for $92 million to fund the construction of the landfill gas collection
systems and generation facilities for certain NEO landfill gas projects in
development. The construction loan for each project will convert to a term loan
containing a maximum maturity date of ten (10) years. NRG has agreed to provide
Lyon with a guarantee during the construction loan period. In addition, NRG has
agreed to guarantee the monetization and use of the Section 29 tax credits
generated from the landfill gas projects financed by Lyon through the year 2007.

         An important factor in the after tax return of the landfill gas
projects is the eligibility of these projects for Section 29 tax credits. The
Section 29 tax credit is available only to projects that produce gas from
biomass or synthetic fuels from coal. Landfill gas is produced from biomass for
purposes of the Section 29 credit. To qualify for the credit, the facility for
producing gas must be placed in service no later than June 30, 1998.

                          RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITIES

         NRG's Newport resource recovery facility, located in Newport,
Minnesota, can process over 1,500 tons of municipal solid waste, ("MSW") per
day, 92% of which is recovered as RDF or other recycleables and reused in power
generation facilities in Red Wing and Mankato, Minnesota. The Newport facility,
which was originally constructed and operated by NSP, was transferred to NRG in
1994. NRG owns 100% of, and operates and maintains, the Newport facility.

         Pursuant to service agreements with Ramsey and Washington Counties
(the "Counties") which expire in 2007, NRG processes a minimum of 280,800 tons 
of MSW per year at the Newport facility and receives service fees based on the
amount of waste processed, pass-through costs and certain other factors. NRG is
also entitled to an operation and maintenance fee, which is designed to recover
fixed costs and to provide NRG a guaranteed amount for operating and maintaining
the Newport facility for the processing of 750 tons per day of MSW, whether or
not the Counties deliver such waste for processing.

         Since 1989, NRG has operated the Elk River resource recovery facility
located in Elk River, Minnesota, which can process over 1,500 tons of MSW per
day, 90% of which is recovered as RDF or other recyclables and reused in power
generation facilities in Elk River and Mankato, Minnesota. NSP owns 85% of the
Elk River facility, and United Power Association owns the remaining 15%.

         Pursuant to service agreements between NSP and each of Anoka County,
Hennepin County, Sherburne County in Minnesota and the Tri-County Solid Waste
Management Commission in Minnesota (the "NSP Service Counties"), all of which
expire in 2009, NSP is obligated to process a maximum of 450,000 tons of MSW per
year and is entitled to receive service fees based on the amount of waste
processed, pass-through costs, revenues credited to the NSP Service Counties and
certain other factors. NSP is also entitled to an operation and maintenance fee,
which is designed to recover fixed costs and to provide NSP a guaranteed amount
for operating and maintaining the facility for the processing of 214,900 tons of
waste, whether or not the NSP Service Counties deliver such waste for
processing.

         NRG also provides ash storage and disposal for the Elk River facility
at NSP's Becker ash disposal facility, an approved ash deposit site adjacent to
NSP's Sherburne County generating facility near Becker, Minnesota. NRG operates
the Becker facility on behalf of NSP. Pursuant to an ash management services
agreement between NSP and the NSP Service Counties, the NSP Service Counties pay
an ash disposal fee based on the amount of ash disposal, pass-through costs and
certain other factors.

         RDF projects, such as NRG's Newport facility and NSP's Elk River
facility, historically were assured adequate supply of waste through state and
local flow control legislation, which directed that waste be disposed of in
certain facilities. In May 1994, the United States Supreme Court held that such
waste was a commodity in 





interstate commerce and, accordingly, that flow control legislation which
prohibited shipment of waste out of state was unconstitutional. Since this
ruling, the RDF facilities owned or operated by NRG have faced increased
competition from landfills.

SIGNIFICANT PENDING ACQUISITIONS AND PROJECTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT

                                    WEST JAVA

         A joint venture among NRG, Ansaldo Energia SpA, a major Italian
industrial company ("Ansaldo"), and P.T. Kiani Metra, an Indonesian industrial
company ("PTKM"), is developing a 400 MW coal-fired power generation facility in
West Java Indonesia through P.T. Dayalistrik Pratama ("PTDP"), a limited
liability company created by the joint venturers. Each of NRG and Ansaldo has an
ownership interest of 45% in PTDP and PTKM has an ownership interest of 10%.

         On November 13, 1996, PTDP signed a Power Purchase Agreement (the "West
Java PPA") with P.T. PLN (Persero) ("P.T. PLN"), an instrumentality of the
Government of Indonesia. Under the terms of the existing West Java PPA, PTDP was
to have drawn and closed on construction financing for the project no later than
January 12, 1998. However, the government of Indonesia issued Decree No. 39/1997
in September, 1997 which placed the West Java project on a list of Indonesian
infrastructure projects to be halted and reviewed by the government before being
allowed to proceed. There have been no communications from the Indonesian
government regarding when the project may be reviewed or allowed to continue
towards financial close and construction and operation. In addition, the
significant decline of the Indonesian currency has placed the viability of the
project and its related PPA in serious question.

         In February 1998, P.T. PLN announced that payments under existing and
operating PPAs would be made in local currency terms (the rupiah) rather than
the U.S. dollar terms dictated in the PPAs (including the West Java PPA). The
payment has been fixed at the rate of 2450 rupiah to the dollar, which
approximates the currency exchange rate in place at the time P.T. PLN signed
most of the PPAs. However, since the October Asian crisis, the rupiah has
severely devalued causing an average economic loss of 75% of the revenues under
the PPAs.

         On January 9, 1998, PTDP filed a Notice of Force Majeure with the PLN
informing them that due to the application of Decree No. 39/1997, PTDP has been
prevented from satisfying certain of its obligations under the PPA, including
the obligation to achieve the financing date by January 12, 1998. NRG believes
that the filing of the Notice of Force Majeure preserves PTDP's rights under the
West Java PPA.

         All development efforts on the project are temporarily halted until the
economic issues of Indonesia are stabilized and the West Java project is allowed
to proceed. As of December 31, 1997, NRG had infused $5.6 million of capital
into the project (of which $3.8 million was used to acquire land) and had an
additional $3.9 million of capitalized development costs. In addition, NRG has
an interest rate hedge in place for a portion of the equity commitment to PTDP
at December 31, 1997. The mark-to-market on the hedge if it were to be settled
at December 31, 1997 would have been $4.3 million. As of March 30, 1998 the
mark-to-market on the hedge was $4.0 million. If the project is not allowed to
go forward, NRG will be required to write-off the majority of these costs.

                                     ESTONIA

         On December 20, 1996, representatives of the Estonian Government, the
state-owned utility Eesti Energia ("EE"), and NRG signed a Development and 
Cooperation Agreement ("DCA"). The DCA defines the terms under which the 
parties are to establish a plan to develop and refurbish the Balti and Eesti 
Power Plants. Pursuant to the DCA, a business plan for the joint project was 
submitted in June 1997. NRG has stated its willingness to invest up to $67.25 
million of equity into the project and to assist the joint project in obtaining
non-recourse debt in an 





amount necessary to fund the required capital improvements to the Balti and
Eesti Power Plants. Recently the Estonian government announced that it had
rejected the business plan of NRG and EE. Early in 1998 the Estonian government
and EE offered to work on a new plan with NRG. NRG has a policy of expensing all
costs until there is a signed contract and Board of Directors approval. All such
costs with respect to Estonia have been expensed. Discussions are continuing
with the Estonian government as management continues to evaluate the Estonian
situation as well as other opportunities around the world.

                                      CAJUN

         NRG, together with two other parties and the Chapter 11 trustees, have
filed a plan with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of
Louisiana to acquire the fossil generating assets of Cajun Electric Power
Cooperative of Baton Rouge, Louisiana ("Cajun") for approximately $1.1 billion.
The NRG consortium has the support of the Chapter 11 trustee and Cajun's secured
creditors. The Court has also received two other competing plans of
reorganization for Cajun. All three plans of reorganization are the subject of a
confirmation hearing which began in December, 1996. NRG expects the confirmation
process to conclude in the second quarter of 1998. Under the plan filed with the
Court, NRG would hold a 30% equity interest in Louisiana Generating LLC, which
would acquire Cajun's 1706 MW, excluding nuclear generating assets.

                                   EL SEGUNDO

         On November 21, 1997, NRG signed an Asset Purchase Agreement to acquire
a 50% interest in the El Segundo Generating Station, a 1,020 MW natural
gas-fired project, from Southern California Edison Company ("SCE"). NRG and its
partner Destec Energy, Inc. ("Destec"), a subsidiary of NGC Corporation ("NGC"),
are jointly and severally liable under the agreement for the payment of the
$87.75 million purchase price. Consummation of the transaction is expected to
occur on or before March 31, 1998, but it is contingent on receipt of regulatory
approvals and consents from a number of governmental and private parties. NRG
will be the lead party on operations and Destec's parent, NGC, will be the lead
party on fuel procurement and power marketing. SCE will provide operations and
maintenance services for the first two years, in accordance with bid protocol
and California regulation. 

                                   LONG BEACH

         In January, 1998 NRG and Destec, signed an agreement with SCE to
acquire SCE's Long Beach plant for approximately $29.8 million. The gas-fired
plant has a summer capacity rating of 530 MW. The acquisition is contingent upon
regulatory approval by the California Public Utility Commission and the Federal
Trade Commission. NRG and Destec will each hold 50% ownership in the Long Beach
plant. NRG will be the lead party on operations and NGC will be the lead party
on fuel procurement and power marketing. SCE will provide operations and
maintenance services for the first two years, in accordance with bid protocol
and California regulation.

         Because of the many complexities inherent in the acquisition,
development and financing of projects, there can be no assurance that any of
NRG's pending acquisitions and projects under development, including those
described above, will be consummated.

PROJECT AGREEMENTS

         In the past, virtually all of NRG's operating power generation
facilities have sold electricity under long-term power purchase agreements. A
facility's revenue from a power purchase agreement usually consists of two
components: energy payments and capacity payments. Energy payments, which are
intended to cover the variable costs of electric generation (such as fuel costs
and variable operation and maintenance expense), are normally based on a
facility's net electrical output measured in kilowatt hours, with payment rates
either fixed or indexed to 




the fuel costs of the power purchaser. Capacity payments, which are generally
intended to provide funds for the fixed costs incurred by the project subsidiary
or project affiliate (such as debt service on the project financing and the
equity return), are normally calculated based on the net electrical output or
the declared capacity of a facility and its availability.

         A number of the more recent projects in which NRG has acquired or is
acquiring an interest do not have long-term power purchase agreements. For
example, Loy Yang does not have such agreements because under the new Australian
regulatory scheme, all generators must sell their output to a grid, where the
price is established by a neutral regulator based on the market prices during
each defined period. The same will be true of Enfield, since the United Kingdom
has adopted a similar regulatory scheme. Similarly, the El Segundo and Long
Beach projects will be merchant plants, selling power through a newly
established independent system operator. In the case of the Kladno project,
where there is a long-term agreement, the energy price is tied to the market
price of electricity rather than to the costs incurred by the project, so the
contract does not provide the traditional level of certainty and protection.
While these "merchant" projects introduce new risks and uncertainties and
require careful advance analysis of the local power markets, NRG believes that
they are becoming increasingly common in the independent power market.

REGULATION

         NRG is subject to a broad range of federal, state and local energy and
environmental laws and regulations applicable to the development, ownership and
operation of its United States and international projects. These laws and
regulations generally require that a wide variety of permits and other approvals
be obtained before construction or operation of a power plant commences and
that, after completion, the facility operate in compliance with their
requirements. NRG strives to comply with the terms of all such laws,
regulations, permits and licenses and believes that all of its operating plants
are in material compliance with all such applicable requirements. No assurance
can be given, however, that in the future all necessary permits and approvals
will be obtained and all applicable statutes and regulations complied with. In
addition, regulatory compliance for the construction of new facilities is a
costly and time-consuming process, and intricate and rapidly changing
environmental regulations may require major expenditures for permitting and
create the risk of expensive delays or material impairment of project value if
projects cannot function as planned due to changing regulatory requirements or
local opposition. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that existing
regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or
become applicable to NRG which would have an adverse impact on its operations.

EMPLOYEES

         At December 31, 1997, NRG employed 603 people, approximately 320 of
whom are employed directly by NRG and approximately 283 of whom are employed by
its wholly-owned subsidiaries.








ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Set forth in the two tables and the text below are descriptions of NRG's
interests in facilities, operations or projects under construction as of
December 31, 1997.

          INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCTION AND COGENERATION FACILITIES (1)










1.   Does not include the small hydroelectric and landfill gas-fired power
     generation facilities owned by NEO with an aggregate capacity of 72 MW, of
     which NEO has net ownership of 35 MW. In addition, NEO has landfill gas
     projects under construction with an aggregate capacity of 23.5 MW, of which
     NEO has net ownership of 11.8 MW.

2.   Design capacity is without deduction for internally consumed power.

3.   Each of Loy Yang and MIBRAG also owns coal mines which sell coal both to
     its respective power plant and to third parties.

4.   The expansion project is held separately through ECK Generating ("ECKG"), a
     Czech limited liability company of which 89% is owned by a Netherlands
     company called Matra Powerplant Holding B.V. ("Matra") and 11% is owned by
     STE. NRG owns 65% of Matra and El Paso owns the remaining 35%. As a result,
     NRG has net temporary ownership interest in the expansion plant of 57.85%.
     Each of NRG and El Paso has granted Nations Energy (a subsidiary of Tucson
     Electric) an option to acquire 15% of Matra at any time before May 1998. On
     February 17, 1998, NRG received a letter of intent from Nations Energy to
     exercise its option to acquire the 15% of Matra. In addition, on February
     19, 1998, NRG and El Paso signed an agreement pursuant to which El Paso
     committed that if Nations Energy does not exercise its option to purchase
     15% of Matra, El Paso would purchase the additional 15%. In such case NRG
     and El Paso would each own 50% of Matra and 44.5% of the expansion project.

5.   Includes the Zongo 65 MW expansion which will be fully operational in 1999.

6.   In addition to the projects listed, PGC owns limited partnership interests
     in Energy Investors Funds through which it owns an allocated share equal to
     another 39 MW.

7.   The project does not generate electricity but its steam sales are the
     equivalent of 25 MW of electric power.

8.   Operations of the project are currently suspended pursuant to an agreement
     with this power purchaser.

9.   Operations suspended following buy-out of power purchase contracts and
     pending negotiation of new power purchase agreements or sale of such
     facilities.

10.  PG&E has agreed to a buy-out of related power purchase agreements, but
     retains a right of first refusal with respect to output of facilities.

11.  Operations were suspended during 1995 and 1996 pursuant to a restructuring
     of the power purchase agreement. Operations restarted on May 1, 1997.






              THERMAL ENERGY PRODUCTION AND TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
                        AND RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITIES





(1)  Thermal production and transmission capacity is based on 1,000 Btus per
     pound of steam production or transmission capacity. The unit mmBtu is equal
     to one million Btus.

(2)  Includes 0.5% general partnership interests in each of PTLP and SFTLP.

(3)  Kladno also is included in the Independent Power Production and
     Cogeneration Facilities table on the preceding page. (4) NRG operates the
     Elk River resource recovery facility on behalf of NSP.





(4)  NRG operates the Elk River resource recovery facility on behalf of NSP.

OTHER PROPERTIES

     In addition to the above, NRG leases its offices at 1221 Nicollet Mall,
Suite 700, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55403, under a five-year lease that expires in
June 2002.





ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         There are no material legal proceedings pending, other than
ordinary routine litigation incidental to NRG's business, to which NRG
is a party, except as discussed below. There are no material legal
proceedings to which an officer or director is a party or has a
material interest adverse to NRG or its subsidiaries. There are no
material administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
environmental quality or civil rights statutes pending or known to be
contemplated by governmental agencies to which NRG is or would be a
party.

         The Grays Ferry partnership, along with subsidiaries of NRGG
and Trigen Energy Corporation (which are two of its partners), recently
commenced litigation, in federal court in Pennsylvania, seeking to
enjoin PECO from terminating its power purchase agreements with the
partnership and to compel PECO to pay the rates set forth in the
existing agreements. Plaintiffs' position is that the actions of PECO,
in unilaterally terminating the power purchase agreements with the
Grays Ferry partnership, are without merit and that those agreements
should be enforced. On March 19, the Federal Court in Pennsylvania
dismissed Grays Ferry partnership's action for lack of jurisdiction.
The Grays Ferry partnership is reviewing its options, which includes
re-filing the action in State court in Pennsylvania.

         On January 30, 1998, NRGG gave notice that it intended to seek
arbitration of its claim that NRG sold the MCPC facility to Oklahoma Gas
& Electric in violation of its obligations to offer certain project
investments to NRGG under the Co-Investment Agreement between NRG and
NRGG. (See "Item 1 - Significant Investments and Acquisition in 1997 -
NRG Generating (U.S.) Inc.") An arbitration panel is being formed to
hear the proceedings. NRGG is seeking a ruling from the arbitration
panel that NRG must sell the MCPC facility to NRGG. NRG believes that it
had no obligation to offer the MCPC facility to NRGG.






PART II


ITEM 5 - MARKET PRICE OF AND DIVIDENDS ON THE REGISTRANT'S
         COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     This is not applicable as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary.

































ITEM 7 -  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations is omitted per conditions as set forth in General Instructions I
(1) (a) and (b) of Form 10-K for wholly owned subsidiaries. It is replaced with
management's narrative analysis of the results of operations set forth in
General Instructions I (2) (a) of Form 10-K for wholly-owned subsidiaries
(reduced disclosure format). This analysis will primarily compare NRG's revenue
and expense items for the year ended December 31, 1997 with the year ended
December 31, 1996.

                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

         Net income for the year ended December 31, 1997, was $22.0 million, an
increase of $2.0 million or 10%, compared to net income of $20.0 million in the
same period in 1996. This increase was due to the factors described below.

REVENUES

         For the year ended December 31, 1997, NRG had total revenues of $118.3
million, compared to $104.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1996, an
increase of 13%. NRG's operating revenues from wholly-owned operations for the
period ended December 31, 1997 were $92.1 million, an increase of $20.4 million,
or 28%, over the same period in 1996. The increase was primarily attributable to
increases in MEC sales volume, rates charged to customers and pass-through fuel
costs, management fee and cost reimbursement revenues from NRG's wholly-owned
service subsidiaries, and technical service fees. Revenues from the RDF business
increased $4.0 million, due to increases in MSW deliveries at the Newport
Facility. For the year ended December 31, 1997, revenues from wholly-owned
operations consisted primarily of revenue from district heating and cooling
(37%), resource recovery activities (30%), other thermal projects (17%),
technical service fees (6%), management fees (8%), and NEO (2%).

EQUITY INCOME

         Equity in earnings of unconsolidated project affiliates was $26.2
million for the year ended December 31, 1997 compared to $32.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 1996, a decline of 20.1%. Lower earnings in MIBRAG,
Gladstone, Latin Power, and Kladno offset the new revenue sources for Loy Yang,
PacGen, and COBEE.

OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES

         Cost of wholly-owned operations was $46.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997, an increase of $10.1 million, or 28%, over the same period in
1996. The increase is due primarily to increased MEC sales volume, service labor
costs and fuel costs. Cost of operations as a percentage of revenues from
wholly-owned operations was 51% which is approximately equal to the same period
in 1996.

         General, administrative and development costs were $43.1 million for
the year ended December 31, 1997, compared to $39.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996. The $3.9 million increase is due primarily to increased
business development, associated legal, technical, and accounting expenses,
headcount and equipment resulting from expanded operations. General,
administrative and development costs as a percent of revenues from wholly-owned
operations declined from 55% to 47%.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

         Other expense was $19.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1997
compared with $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1996. The increase is
primarily due to interest expense which increased by $15.6 million, from $15.4
million in 1996 to $31.0 million in 1997. This increase was due to the issuance
of the $250 million Senior 





Notes at the end of June 1997, bridge financing prior to issuance of the Senior
Notes and $1.8 million of interest on the Company's $175 million revolving line
of credit.

         Also, 1997 includes a $8.9 million charge for the write-down of the
Company's investment in the Sunnyside project and gains of $8.7 million on the
sale of certain project investments.

INCOME TAX

         NRG has recognized an income tax benefit due to tax losses from
domestic operations and due to the recognition of certain tax credits. The net
income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 1997 increased by $17.8
million as compared to the benefit for the year ended December 31, 1996 due to
increased tax credits as shown in Note 9 to the financial statements, and higher
interest expense.

YEAR 2000

         NRG is in the process of examining the year 2000 issue. NRG plans to
update and/or replace all corporate systems where there is a year 2000 computing
issue. In addition, NRG is evaluating the affect that the year 2000 may have on
project systems.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

        The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe 
harbor" for forward-looking statements. Certain information included in this 
Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking, such as statements
relating to business development activities as well as other capital spending
and financing sources. Such forward-looking information involves important
risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in
the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in
any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of NRG.  In addition to any
assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in  connection with such
forward-looking statements, factors that could cause  NRG's actual results to
differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements
include, among others, the following:

      -  Economic conditions including inflation rates and monetary
         fluctuations;

      -  Trade, monetary, fiscal, taxation, and environmental policies of
         governments, agencies and similar organizations in geographic areas
         where NRG has a financial interest;
 
      -  Customer business conditions including demand for their products or
         services and supply of labor and materials used in creating their
         products and services;
 
      -  Financial or regulatory accounting principles or policies imposed by
         the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
         Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and similar
         entities with regulatory oversight;
 
      -  Availability or cost of capital such as changes in: interest rates;
         market perceptions of the power generation industry, NRG or any of its
         subsidiaries; or security ratings;
 
      -  Factors affecting power generation operations such as unusual weather
         conditions; catastrophic weather-related damage; unscheduled generation
         outages, maintenance or repairs; unanticipated changes to fossil fuel,
         or gas supply costs or availability due to higher demand, shortages,
         transportation problems or other developments; environmental incidents;
         or electric transmission or gas pipeline system constraints;
 
      -  Employee workforce factors including loss or retirement of key
         executives, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, or
         work stoppages;
 
      -  Increased competition in the power generation industry;
 
      -  Cost and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings,
         settlements, investigations and claims;

      -  Technological developments that result in competitive disadvantages and
         create the potential for impairment of existing assets;
 
      -  Factors associated with various investments including conditions of
         final legal closing, foreign government actions, foreign economic and
         currency risks, political instability in foreign countries, partnership
         actions, competition, operating risks, dependence on certain suppliers
         and customers, domestic and foreign environmental and energy
         regulations;

      -  Limitations on NRG's ability to control the development or operation of
         projects in which NRG has less than 100% interest;





      -  Other business or investment considerations that may be disclosed from
         time to time in NRG's Securities and Exchange Commission filings or in
         other publicly disseminated written documents, including NRG's
         Registration Statement No. 333-33397, as amended.

NRG undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive.










ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              PAGE NO.

     Report of Independent Accountant                           25

     Consolidated Statement of Income                           26

     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                       27

     Consolidated Balance Sheet                                 28

     Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity             30

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                 31









                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS




The Board of Directors and Stockholder
of NRG Energy, Inc.


In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, of stockholder's equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NRG Energy,
Inc (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northern States Power Company) and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.







/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP


Price Waterhouse LLP
Minneapolis, Minnesota
March 19, 1998

















NRG ENERGY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME





See notes to consolidated financial statements.






NRG ENERGY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS







See notes to consolidated financial statements.





NRG ENERGY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET





See notes to consolidated financial statements.






NRG ENERGY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



See notes to consolidated financial statements.








NRG ENERGY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY




See notes to consolidated financial statements.






NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Thousands of Dollars)

NOTE 1-ORGANIZATION

NRG Energy, Inc. (the Company), a Delaware Corporation, was incorporated on May
29, 1992, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northern States Power Company (NSP).
Beginning in 1989, the Company was doing business through its predecessor
companies, NRG Energy, Inc. and NRG Group, Inc., Minnesota corporations which
were merged into the Company subsequent to its incorporation. The Company and
its subsidiaries and affiliates develop, build, acquire, own and operate
non-regulated energy-related businesses.

NOTE 2-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its subsidiaries (referred to collectively herein as NRG). All significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. As
discussed in Note 5, NRG has investments in partnerships, joint ventures and
projects for which the equity method of accounting is applied. Earnings from
equity in international investments are recorded net of foreign income taxes.

CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash equivalents include highly liquid investments (primarily commercial paper)
with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase.

RESTRICTED CASH
Restricted cash consists primarily of cash collateral for letters of credit
issued in relation to project development activities.

INVENTORY
Inventory is valued at the lower of average cost or market and consists
principally of spare parts and raw materials used to generate steam.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment are capitalized at original cost. Significant
additions or improvements extending asset lives are capitalized, while repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation is computed
using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

     Facilities and improvements                       20-45 years
     Machinery and equipment                           7-30 years
     Office furnishings and equipment                  3-5 years

CAPITALIZED INTEREST
Interest incurred on funds borrowed to finance projects expected to require more
than three months to complete is capitalized. Capitalization of interest is
discontinued when the project is completed and considered operational.
Capitalized interest is amortized using the straight line method over the useful
life of the related project. Capitalized interest was $98,000 and $364,000 in
1997 and 1996, respectively.



NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


DEVELOPMENT COSTS AND CAPITALIZED PROJECT COSTS
These costs include professional services, dedicated employee salaries, permits,
and other costs which are incurred incidental to a particular project. Such
costs are expensed as incurred until a sales agreement or letter of intent is
signed, and the project has been approved by NRG's Board of Directors.
Additional costs incurred after this point are capitalized. When project
operations begin, previously capitalized project costs are reclassified to
investment in projects and amortized on a straight-line basis over the lesser of
the life of the project's related assets or revenue contract period.

DEBT ISSUANCE COSTS
Costs to issue long-term debt have been capitalized and are being amortized over
the terms of the related debt.

INTANGIBLES
Intangibles consist principally of the excess of the cost of investment in
subsidiaries over the underlying fair value of the net assets acquired and are
being amortized using the straight-line method over 10 to 40 years. The Company
periodically evaluates the recovery of goodwill and other intangibles based on
an analysis of estimated undiscounted future cash flows.

OTHER LONG TERM ASSETS
Other long-term assets consist primarily of service agreements and operating
contracts. These assets are being amortized over the remaining terms of the
individual contracts, which range from seven to twenty-eight years.

INCOME TAXES
The Company is included in the consolidated tax returns of NSP. NRG calculates
its income tax provision on a separate return basis under a tax sharing
agreement with NSP as discussed in Note 9. Current federal and state income
taxes are payable to or receivable from NSP. NRG records income taxes using the
liability method. Income taxes are deferred on all temporary differences between
pretax financial and taxable income and between the book and tax bases of assets
and liabilities. Deferred taxes are recorded using the tax rates scheduled by
law to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. Investment tax
credits are deferred and amortized over the estimated lives of the related
property. NRG's policy for income taxes related to international operations is
discussed in Note 9.

REVENUE RECOGNITION
Under fixed-price contracts, revenues are recognized as deliveries of products
or services are made. Revenues and related costs under cost reimbursable
contract provisions are recorded as costs are incurred. Anticipated future
losses on contracts are charged against income when identified.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The local currencies are generally the functional currency of NRG's foreign
operations. Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated
at end-of-period rates of exchange. The resulting currency adjustments are
accumulated and reported as a separate component of stockholder's equity.
Income, expense, and cash flows are translated at weighted-average rates of
exchange for the period.

USE OF ESTIMATES
In recording transactions and balances resulting from business operations, NRG
uses estimates based on the best information available. Estimates are used for
such items as plant depreciable lives, tax provisions, uncollectible accounts
and actuarially determined benefit costs. As better information becomes
available (or actual amounts are determinable), the recorded estimates are
revised. Consequently, operating results can be affected by revisions to prior
accounting estimates.


NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

RECLASSIFICATIONS
Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1996 financial statements to
conform to the 1997 presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on net
income or stockholder's equity as previously reported.

NOTE 3-BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

In February 1997, NRG made an initial purchase of 7.2% of Energy Developments
Limited (EDL). In September, 1997, NRG purchased additional common stock of
EDL, bringing its ownership level to 19.97%. EDL, a publicly held Australian 
company, is engaged in independent power generation from landfill gas, coal 
seam methane, and natural gas. EDL, currently owns approximately 184 MW of 
operating projects and operates over 243 MW of generation capacity across five
states and territories of Australia.

In May 1997, NRG acquired a 25.37% interest in the assets of Loy Yang A, a 2,000
MW brown coal thermal power station and adjacent coal mine located in Victoria,
Australia. NRG's initial equity investment in this project was $257 million.

NRG purchased the San Diego Power & Cooling Company ("SDPC") in June 1997. SDPC
serves the cooling needs of thirteen major customers in the downtown San Diego
central business district through an underground piping system with chilled
water capacity of 5,250 tons/hour.

In July 1997, NRG, together with its partner, Decker Energy International, Inc.,
acquired a 34 MW wood-fired steam turbine power plant, located in Cadillac,
Michigan. NRG assumed on-going operation of the plant.

In November 1997, NRG acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Pacific
Generation Company ("PGC") a, wholly-owned subsidiary of PacifiCorp for $148.8
million. PGC has ownership interest in 11 projects with a total capacity of 737
MW, with operational responsibility for 312 MW and net ownership interest of 166
MW. The projects, which are located throughout the United States and Canada, are
powered by natural gas, hydro, refuse-derived fuel, coal and wind.

The total acquisition investments in these projects through December 31, 1997,
was approximately $437.8 million. The projects acquired in 1997 contributed $3.8
million to NRG's 1997 earnings.

NOTE 4-PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

The major classes of property, plant and equipment at December 31 were as
follows:





NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 5-INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE EQUITY METHOD

NRG has investments in various international and domestic energy projects. The
equity method of accounting is applied to such investments in affiliates, which
include joint ventures and partnerships, because the ownership structure
prevents NRG from exercising a controlling influence over operating and
financial policies of the projects. Under this method, equity in pretax income
or losses of domestic partnerships and in the net income or losses of
international projects are reflected as equity in earnings of unconsolidated
affiliates.

A summary of NRG's significant equity-method investments which were in operation
at December 31, 1997 is as follows:









NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Summarized financial information for investments in unconsolidated affiliates
accounted for under the equity method as of and for the year ended December 31,
is as follows:



         In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards No. 121 "Accounting
for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of," (SFAS 121), the Company
reviews long lived assets, investments and certain intangibles for impairment
whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of an asset may
not be recoverable. In December 1997, the Company reviewed the carrying amount
of a project that failed to restructure its debt and recorded a charge of $8.9
million. The charge represents the difference between the carrying amount of the
investment and the fair value of the asset. This charge is presented in Other
Income (Expense) and is not part of the above information.

NOTE 6-RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

SALE TO AFFILIATE
In December 1997, NRG sold its interest in the Millenium facility, a 117 MW
cogeneration plant under construction near Morris, Illinois to NRG Generating
(U.S.) Inc. for $4 million.

OPERATING AGREEMENTS
NRG has two agreements with NSP for the purchase of thermal energy. Under the
terms of the agreements, NSP charges NRG for certain costs (fuel, labor, plant
maintenance, and auxiliary power) incurred by NSP to produce the thermal energy.
NRG paid NSP $4.6 million in 1997 and $6.0 million in 1996 under these
agreements.

NRG has a renewable 10-year agreement with NSP, expiring on December 31, 2001,
whereby NSP agrees to purchase refuse-derived fuel for use in certain of its
boilers and NRG agrees to pay NSP a burn incentive. NRG has an agreement
expiring in 2006 to sell wood by-products obtained from a Thermal customer to
NSP for use as fuel. Under these two agreements, NRG received $1.3 million and
$1.5 million from NSP, and paid $2.8 million and $2.2 million to NSP in 1997 and
1996, respectively.

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES AND OTHER COSTS
NRG and NSP have entered into an agreement to provide for the reimbursement of
actual administrative services provided to each other, an allocation of NSP
administrative costs and a working capital fee. Services provided by NSP to NRG
are principally cash management, legal, accounting, employee relations, benefits
administration and engineering support. In addition, NRG employees participate
in 



NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

certain employee benefit plans of NSP as discussed in Note 10. During 1997
and 1996, NRG paid NSP $.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively, as
reimbursement under this agreement.

In 1996, NRG and NSP entered into an agreement for NRG to provide operations and
maintenance services for NSP's Elk River resource recovery facility and Becker
ash landfill. During 1997 and 1996, NSP paid NRG $1.1 million and $1.5 million,
respectively, as compensation under this agreement.

NOTE 7 - NOTES RECEIVABLE

Notes receivable consists primarily of fixed and variable rate notes secured by
equity interests in partnerships and joint ventures. The notes receivable at
December 31, are as follows:








NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 8-LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:



The NRG Energy Center, Inc. notes are secured principally by long-term assets of
the Minneapolis Energy Center (MEC). In accordance with the terms of the note
agreement, MEC is required to maintain compliance with certain financial
covenants primarily related to incurring debt, disposing of MEC assets, and
affiliate transactions. MEC was in compliance with these covenants at December
31, 1997.

The note payable to NSP relates to long-term debt assumed by the Company in
connection with the transfer of ownership of an RDF processing plant by NSP to
the Company in 1993.

The NRG Energy $125 million and $250 million senior notes are unsecured and are
used to support equity requirements for projects acquired and in development.
The interest is paid semi-annually and the ten-year senior notes mature in
February 2006 and June 2007.

The NRG San Diego, Inc. promissory note is secured principally by long-term
assets of the San Diego Power & Cooling Company.

The NEO Landfill Gas, Inc. notes are term and construction loans. The loans are
secured principally by long-term assets of NEO Landfill Gas collection system.
NEO Landfill Gas is required to maintain compliance with certain covenants
primarily related to incurring debt, disposing of the NEO Landfill Gas 




NRG ENERGY, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

assets, and affiliate transactions. NEO Landfill Gas was in compliance with
these covenants at December 31, 1997.

The PGC notes are secured principally by long-term assets of certain PGC
affiliates. In accordance with the terms of the note agreements, PGC is required
to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants primarily related to
incurring debt, disposing of PGC assets, and affiliate transactions. PGC was in
compliance with these covenants at December 31, 1997.

Annual maturities of long-term debt for the years ending after December 31, 1997
are as follows:



The Company has a credit agreement for $175 million of which $122 million was
outstanding at December 31, 1997. In addition, the Company has credit lines for
issuance of letters of credit which may not exceed $57.5 million. There were
$48.4 million and $18.4 million outstanding letters of credit under the credit
lines at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

On March 17, 1998 NRG amended its existing 3-year, $175 million Revolving Credit
facility to allow NRG additional borrowing capacity under its covenant ratios.
Also on that date, NRG entered into an additional $75 million, 364-day facility
with its existing bank group with ABN-AMRO as agent. The new facility will be
used for general corporate purposes and for funding future growth opportunities.
(See Exhibits 10.15 and 10.16)

NOTE 9-INCOME TAXES

NRG and its parent, NSP, have entered into a federal and state income tax
sharing agreement relative to the filing of consolidated federal and state
income tax returns. The agreement provides, among other things, that (1) if NRG,
along with its subsidiaries, is in a taxable income position, NRG will be
currently charged with an amount equivalent to its federal and state income tax
computed as if the group had actually filed separate federal and state returns,
and (2) if NRG, along with its subsidiaries, is in a tax loss position, NRG will
be currently reimbursed to the extent its combined losses are utilized in a
consolidated return, and (3) if NRG, along with its subsidiaries, generates tax
credits, NRG will be currently reimbursed to the extent its tax credits are
utilized in a consolidated return.











The provision for income taxes consists of the following:



- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The components of the net deferred income tax liability at December 31 were:




The effective income tax rate for the years 1997, 1996 and 1995 differs from the
statutory federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income and expenses
from foreign operations not subject to U.S. taxes (as discussed below) and due
to state tax, foreign tax, and tax credits as shown above.

Income before income taxes includes equity in net foreign investment income of
$27 million, $28 million and $32.0 million in 1997, 1996, and 1995 respectively.
NRG's management intends to reinvest the earnings of foreign operations
indefinitely. Accordingly, U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have
not been provided on the earnings of foreign subsidiary companies. The
cumulative amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries upon which
no U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes have been provided is
approximately $112 million at December 31, 1997. The additional U.S. 





income tax and foreign withholding tax on the unremitted foreign earnings, if
repatriated, would be offset in whole or in part by foreign tax credits. Thus,
it is impracticable to estimated the amount of tax that might be payable.

NOTE 10-BENEFIT PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

PENSION BENEFITS
NRG participates in NSP's noncontributory, defined benefit pension plan that
covers substantially all employees. Benefits are based on a combination of years
of service, the employee's highest average pay for 48 consecutive months, and
Social Security benefits. Net annual periodic pension cost includes the
following components:



NRG's funding policy is to contribute to NSP the full actuarial pension cost
accrued, less future tax benefits to be realized from such costs. Plan assets
consist principally of common stock of public companies, corporate bonds and
U.S. government securities. The funded status of the pension plan in which NRG
employees participate is as follows at December 31:














The weighted average discount rate used in determining the actuarial present
value of the projected benefit obligation was 7% for December 31, 1997 and 7.5%
for December 31, 1996. The rate of increase in future compensation levels used
in determining the actuarial present value of the projected obligation was 5% in
1997 and 1996. The assumed long-term rate of return on assets used for cost
determinations was 9% for 1997, 1996 and 1995. Assumption changes had an
immaterial impact on benefit costs for the periods presented.

POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH CARE

NRG participates in NSP's contributory health and welfare benefit plan that
provides health care and death benefits to substantially all employees after
their retirement. The plan is intended to provide for sharing of costs of
retiree health care between NRG and retirees. For employees retiring after
January 1, 1994, a six-year cost-sharing strategy was implemented with retirees
paying 15% of the total cost of health care in 1994, increasing to a total of
40% in 1999.

Postretirement health care benefits for NRG are determined and recorded under
the provisions of SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions." SFAS No. 106 requires the actuarially determined
obligation for postretirement health care and death benefits to be fully accrued
by the date employees attain full eligibility for such benefits, which is
generally when they reach retirement age. In conjunction with the adoption of
SFAS No. 106 in 1993, NRG elected to amortize on a straight-line basis over 20
years the unrecognized accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) of
$1.4 million for current and future retirees.

Plan assets as of December 31, 1997 consisted of investments in equity mutual
funds and cash equivalents. NRG's funding policy is to contribute to NSP
benefits actually paid under the plan. The following table sets forth the funded
status of the health care plan in which NRG employees participate at December
31:














The assumed health care cost trend rates used in measuring the APBO at December
31, 1997 and 1996, were 9.2% and 9.8% for those under age 65, and 6.8 % and 7.1%
for those over age 65, respectively. The assumed cost trends are expected to
decrease each year until they reach 5.5% for both age groups in the year 2004,
after which they are assumed to remain constant. A one percent increase in the
assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would increase the APBO by
approximately 14.5% as of December 31, 1997. Service and interest cost
components of the net periodic postretirement cost would increase by
approximately 15.4% with a similar one percent increase in the assumed health
care cost trend rate. The assumed discount rate used in determining the APBO was
7% for December 31, 1997 and 7.5% for December 31, 1996, compounded annually.
The assumed long-term rate of return on assets used for cost determinations
under SFAS No. 106 was 8% for 1997, 1996 and 1995. Changes in actuarial
assumptions had an immaterial impact on benefit costs.

The net annual periodic postretirement benefit cost recorded for 1997 and 1996
consists of the following components:






NRG EQUITY PLAN
Employees are eligible to participate in the NRG Equity Plan (the Plan). The
Plan grants phantom equity units to employees based upon performance and job
grade. NRG's equity units are valued based upon NRG's growth and financial
performance. The primary financial measures used in determining the equity
units' value are revenue growth, return on investment and cash flow from
operations. The units are awarded to employees annually at the respective year's
calculated share price (grant price). The Plan provides employees with a cash
payout for the unit's appreciation in value over the vesting period. The Plan
has a seven year vesting schedule with actual payments beginning after the end
of the third year and continuing at 20% each year for the subsequent five years.

The Plan includes a change of control provision, which allow all shares to vest
if the ownership of NRG were to change.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION

Certain employees of NRG are eligible to participate in a deferred compensation
program. The employee can elect to defer a portion of their compensation until
retirement. Earnings on the amounts deferred are equal to the return on the
Fixed Income Option of the NSP Retirement Savings Plan. Earnings will be
compounded annually and credited monthly. Payouts begin upon retirement with
payments made over 180 equal monthly installments (or a minimum of $500 per
month until the account balance is zero).

NOTE 11-SALES TO SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS

NRG and the Ramsey/Washington Resource Recovery Project have a service agreement
for waste disposal which expires in 2006. Approximately 23.9% in 1997 and 29.1%
in 1996 of NRG's operating revenues were recognized under this contract. In
addition, sales to one thermal customer amounted to 9.9% of operating revenues
in 1997 and 14.1% of operating revenues in 1996.










NOTE 12-FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The estimated December 31 fair values of NRG's recorded financial instruments
are as follows:



For cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, the carrying amount approximates
fair value because of the short-term maturity of those instruments. The fair
value of notes receivable is based on expected future cash flows discounted at
market interest rates. The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on
the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

NRG's policy is to hedge known and anticipated foreign currency denominated cash
flows, where appropriate hedging instruments are available, to preserve their
U.S. dollar value. NRG has entered into currency hedging transactions through
the use of forward foreign currency exchange agreements with terms of less than
one to three years. Gains and losses on these agreements offset the effect of
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on NRG's underlying exposures. Gains
on agreements that hedge firm commitments of cash flows are deferred and
included in the measurement of the related foreign currency transaction in the
period the transaction occurs, and losses on these agreements are deferred in
the same manner unless it is estimated that deferral would lead to recognizing
losses in later periods. Gains and losses on agreements that hedge cash flows
not meeting the criteria of a firm commitment are recorded in the current period
in the statement of income. While NRG is not currently hedging foreign currency
denominated investments, NRG has and will hedge such investments in the future
when management believes that preserving the U.S. dollar value of the investment
is appropriate.

NRG has entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts with
counterparties to hedge certain exposures to currency fluctuations. Pursuant to
these contracts, transactions have been executed that are designed to protect
the economic value in U.S. dollars of selected known and anticipated NRG cash
flows denominated in Australian dollars and German deutsche marks. As of
December 31, 1997, NRG had in place contracts with a notional value of $10
million to hedge foreign currency denominated known future cash flows. In
addition, NRG has in place forward foreign currency exchange contracts with a
net notional value of $8.6 million to hedge projected construction expenditures,
which do not qualify for hedge accounting and consequently result in currency
fluctuations that can affect earnings. The forward foreign currency exchange
contracts terminate in 1998. If all of the contracts had been terminated at
December 31, 1997, $1.0 million would have been payable by NRG for currency
exchange rate changes to date. Management believes NRG's exposure to credit risk
due to nonperformance by the counterparties to its forward exchange contracts is
not significant, based on the investment grade rating of the counterparties.

Where appropriate, NRG also uses interest rate hedging instruments to protect
against increases in the cost of borrowing at both the corporate and project
level. Gains and losses on interest rate hedging instruments are deferred and
included in the measurement of the underlying equity investment when made. NRG
also has two agreements in place, with a notional amount of $80 million, to fix
the interest rate (based on U.S. Treasury obligations) for known future
borrowings related to project investment commitments. If the 





agreements had been terminated at December 31, 1997, $4.3 million would have
been payable by NRG based on the underlying U.S. Treasury interest rate on that
date.

NOTE 13-COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under operating
leases, some of which include escalation clauses, expiring on various dates
through 2010. Rental expense under these operating leases was $1.2 million in
1997 and $.7 million in 1996. Future minimum lease commitments under these
leases for the years ending after December 31, 1997 are as follows:



CAPITAL COMMITMENTS - INTERNATIONAL

NRG signed a Joint Development Agreement for the acquisition, upgrading,
expansion and development of Energy Center Kladno in Kladno, Czech Republic. The
acquisition of the existing facility is the first phase of a development project
that will include upgrading the existing plant and developing a new power
generation facility. NRG has made a $46 million commitment for the additional
facilities.

NRG together with its partners, signed a power contract with PT Perusahaan
Listrik Negara, the state-owned Indonesian Electric Company, to build, own and
operate a 400 MW, coal-fired power station in Cilegon, West Java, Indonesia. NRG
has a $65 million commitment for the facility. This project is currently on
hold.

NRG is contractually committed to additional equity investments of $8 million in
the Scudder Latin American Power I and $7 million to Scudder Latin American
Power II as of December 31, 1997.

NRG purchased a 50% equity interest in the Enfield Energy Centre, a 396 MW power
project under development in the North London Borough of Enfield, England. NRG's
has a $28 million outstanding commitment for the facility.

NRG and Transfield signed an agreement for the acquisition and refurbishment of
the 189 MW Collinsville coal-fired power generation facility in Queensland,
Australia. NRG has a $10 million commitment to the Collinsville project.

CAPITAL COMMITMENTS-DOMESTIC

In 1996, NRG provided a $10 million loan commitment to a wholly owned subsidiary
of NRG Generating (U.S.) Inc. (NRGG). The purpose of the loan was to allow NRGG
to fund its capital contribution to a cogeneration project that was under
construction. During 1997, NRG lent $10 million to NRGG and $1.9 million remains
outstanding as of December 31, 1997. 





Also in 1996, NRG entered into an agreement requiring that it provide NRGG power
generation investment opportunities in the United States over a period of seven
years. During the first three years of the seven-year term, NRG is obligated to
offer projects to NRGG having aggregate, equity value of at least $60 million or
a minimum power generation capacity of 150 net megawatts. In addition, NRG has
committed to finance these projects to the extent funds are not available to
NRGG on comparable terms from other sources. During 1997, NRG provided NRGG with
a 117 megawatt project and offered a 17 net MW project which NRGG did not
purchase.

NRG and Destec Energy Inc. (Destec) signed agreements with Southern California
Edison to acquire a 1020 MW facility in El Segundo, California and a 530 MW
facility in Long Beach, California for $87.75 million and $29.8 million,
respectively. NRG and Destec will each own a 50% interest in these facilities.

NRG has guaranteed the repayment of certain affiliate borrowings under a
construction loan facility. The facility, which terminates in October 1998, will
fund construction of landfill gas collection and electric generation projects.
The loan facility commitment is $74.0 million. Accounts outstanding under the
facility at December 31, 1997, which could be subject to the NRG guarantee if
unpaid by affiliate, were $4.8 million.

NRG has contractually agreed to the monetization of certain tax credits
generated from landfill gas sales through the year 2007.

Future capital commitments related to projects are as follows:

(Millions  of  dollars)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
1998                                                         $    111
1999                                                               77
2000                                                               32
2001                                                                3
2002                                                                2
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                          $  225
=====================================================================

CLAIMS AND LITIGATION

In the normal course of business, NRG is a party to routine claims and
litigation arising from current and prior operations. NRG is actively defending
these matters and does not feel the outcome of such matters would materially
impact the results of operation.

NOTE 14-SEGMENT REPORTING

NRG conducts its business within one industry segment, independent power
generation. Operations in the United States include wholly-owned operations and
investments in various domestic energy projects. International operations
include investments in various international energy projects. See Note 5 for
significant equity method investments.


























(1)  Includes all expenses not allocated to either consolidated operations or
     equity investments. This includes general, administrative and development
     expenses as well as other income (net), interest expense and taxes.
(2)  Includes cash, debt issuance costs and other items not directly related to
     specific asset groups.




ITEM 9- CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                  ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         None.








PART IV
- -------

ITEM 14  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
         ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1)   Consolidated Financial Statements
         Included in Part II.

(a)(2)   Supplemental Financial Statement Schedules

                  Exhibit 99.1 contains the financial statements of
                  Mitteldeutsche Braunkohlengesellschaft mbH
                  ("MIBRAG").

                  Exhibit 99.2 contains the financial statements of 
                  Saale Energie GmbH ("Saale").

                  Exhibit 99.3 contains the financial statements of Sunshine
                  State Power BVI and Sunshine State Power BVII (the 
                  "Sunshines").

                  All other financial statement schedules have been
                  omitted because either they are not required or the
                  information required to be set forth therein is
                  included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
                  in the Notes thereto.

(a)(3)   Exhibits

  3.1      Certificate of Incorporation. (Incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrants' Registration
           Statement of Form S-1, as amended, File No. 333-33397.)
  3.2      By-Laws.  (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibits 3.2 
           to the Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as 
           amended, File No. 333-33397.)
  4.1      Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1997, between NRG and Norwest
           Bank Minnesota, National Association. (Incorporated herein
           by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrants' Registration
           Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No. 333-33397).
  4.2      Form of Exchange Notes. (Incorporated herein by reference to 
           Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrants' Registration Statement on 
           Form S-1, as amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.1     Employment Contract, dated as of June 28, 1995, between NRG
           and David H. Peterson. (Incorporated herein by reference to
           Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrants' Registration Statement on
           Form S-1, as amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.2     Indenture, dated as of January 31, 1996, between NRG and
           Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, As Trustee.
           (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
           Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended,
           File No. 333-33397).
  10.3     Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 17, 1997,
           among NRG, the banks party thereto and ABN AMRO Bank, N.V.
           as Agent. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3
           to the Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as
           amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.4     Note Agreement, dated August 20, 1993, among NRG Energy
           Center, Inc. and each of the purchasers named therein.
           (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
           Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended,
           File No. 333-33397).
  10.5     Master Shelf and Revolving Credit Agreement, dated August
           20, 1993 among NRG Energy Center, Inc., The Prudential
           Insurance Company of America and each Prudential
           Affiliate which becomes party thereto. (Incorporated herein
           by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrants'
           Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No.
           333-33397).
  10.6     Energy Agreement, dated February 12, 1988 between NRG
           (formerly known as Norenco Corporation) and Rock-Tenn Company
           (formerly Waldorf Corporation) (the "Energy Agreement"). 
           (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the 
           Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended, 
           File No. 333-33397).




  10.7     First Amendment to the Energy Agreement, dated August 27,
           1993. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
           the Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as
           amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.8     Second Amendment to the Energy Agreement, dated August 27,
           1993. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
           the Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as
           amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.9     Third Amendment to the Energy Agreement, dated August 27,
           1993. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to
           the Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as
           amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.10    Construction, Acquisition, and Term Loan Agreement, dated
           September 2, 1997 by and among NEO Landfill Gas, Inc , as
           Borrower, the lenders named on the signature pages, Credit
           Lyonnais New York Branch, as Construction/Acquisition Agent
           and Lyon Credit Corporation as Term Agent. (Incorporated
           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrants'
           Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No.
           333-33397).
  10.11    Guaranty, dated September 12, 1997 by NRG in favor of Credit
           Lyonnais New York Branch as agent for the
           Construction/Acquisition Lenders. (Incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrants' Registration
           Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.12    Construction, Acquisition, and Term Loan Agreement, dated
           September 2, 1997 by and among Minnesota Methane LLC, as
           Borrower, the lenders named on the signature pages, Credit
           Lyonnais New York Branch, as Construction/Acquisition Agent
           and Lyon Credit Corporation as Term Agent. (Incorporated
           herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrants'
           Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No.
           333-33397).
  10.13    Guaranty, dated September 12, 1997 by NRG in favor of Credit
           Lyonnais New York Branch as agent for the
           Construction/Acquisition Lenders. (Incorporated herein by
           reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrants' Registration
           Statement on Form S-1, as amended, File No. 333-33397).
  10.14    Non Operating Interest Acquisition Agreement, dated as of
           September 12, 1997, by and among NRG and NEO Corporation.
           (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
           Registrants' Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended,
           File No. 333-33397).
  10.15    First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of 
           March 17, 1998.  (See 10.3 for detail)
  10.16    364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 17,
           1998, among NRG, the Banks Party thereto and ABN
           AMRO Bank N.V., as Agent.
  24       Power of Attorney (included on signature page).
  27       Financial Data Schedule.
  99.1     Financial Statements of "MIBRAG"
  99.2     Financial Statements of "Saale" (upon amendment)
  99.3     Financial Statements of "Sunshines" (upon amendment)
  (b)      Reports on Form 8-K
                The Registrant did not file any Current Reports on Form
                8-K during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1997.







                                   SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
 Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
 report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
 authorized, on March 30, 1998.

                                    NRG ENERGY, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Leonard A. Bluhm
                                        ----------------------------------
                                                    Leonard A. Bluhm
                                        Executive Vice President and 
                                        Chief Financial Officer

                        POWER OF ATTORNEY

          Each person whose signature appears below constitutes and
 appoints David H. Peterson and Leonard A. Bluhm, each or any of them,
 such person's true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent with full
 power of substitution and resubstitution for such person and in such
 person's name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any
 and all amendments to this report on Form 10-K, and to file the same,
 with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith,
 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
 attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
 authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary or
 desirable to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents
 and purposes as such person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
 said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or his or their
 substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
 virtue hereof.

          In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been
 signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the
 capacities indicated on March 30, 1998:


 SIGNATURE                                                     TITLE

  /s/ David H. Peterson               Chairman of the Board, President and
  -------------------------------     Chief Executive Officer (Principal 
  David H. Peterson                   Executive Officer)
                                      

  /s/ Leonard A. Bluhm                Executive Vice President and Chief 
  -------------------------------     Financial Officer
  Leonard A. Bluhm                    (Principal Financial Officer)
                                      

  /s/ David E. Ripka                  Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
  -------------------------------
  David E. Ripka





  /s/ Gary R. Johnson                Director
  --------------------------------   
  Gary R. Johnson

  /s/ Cynthia L. Lesher              Director
  --------------------------------   
  Cynthia L. Lesher

  /s/ Edward J. McIntyre             Director
  --------------------------------   
  Edward J. McIntyre

  /s/ John A. Noer                   Director
  --------------------------------   
  John A. Noer




 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED WITH REPORTS FILED PURSUANT TO
 SECTION 15 (d) OF THE ACT BY REGISTRANTS WHICH HAVE NOT REGISTERED
 SECURITIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE ACT.

 An annual report will be sent to security holders and will be
 supplementally filed with the Commission. Such annual report to
 security holders shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission or
 otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934. No proxy material will be sent to security
 holders.








