
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END DECEMBER 31, 1999




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
[X]                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]            TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-13175

                           VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)





       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (210) 370-2000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     NONE.

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value on February 1, 2000, of the registrant's Common
Stock, $.01 par value, held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, based on the
average of the high and low prices as quoted in the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Transactions listing for that date, was approximately $1.2 billion. As
of February 1, 2000, 55,753,583 shares of the registrant's Common Stock were
issued and outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The Company intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in
March 2000 a definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Stockholders scheduled for May 4, 2000, at which directors of the Company will
be elected. Portions of the 2000 Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K and shall be deemed to be a part hereof.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET

     The following table indicates the headings in the 2000 Proxy Statement
where the information required in Part III of Form 10-K may be found.



     Copies of all documents incorporated by reference, other than exhibits to
such documents, will be provided without charge to each person who receives a
copy of this Form 10-K upon written request to Jay D. Browning, Corporate
Secretary, Valero Energy Corporation, P.O. Box 500, San Antonio, Texas
78292-0500.

                                       ii


                                    CONTENTS



                                       iii


CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF
  "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF
                                     1995.

     This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements
relating to Valero Energy Corporation's operations that are based on
management's current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum
and chemicals industries. Words such as "expects," "intends," "plans,"
"projects," "believes," "estimates" and similar expressions are used to identify
forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are
difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ
materially from Valero's expressed expectations or forecasts. While these
forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are
made in good faith and reflect Valero's current judgment regarding the direction
of its business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially,
from any current estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions, or other
indication of future performance. Some important factors (but not necessarily
all factors) that could affect Valero's sales volumes, growth strategies, future
profitability and operating results, or that otherwise could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or forecast by Valero are
discussed in "Item 1. Business" under the headings "Factors Affecting Operating
Results," "Competition," and "Environmental Matters," and in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under
the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" as well as in Valero's other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Valero undertakes no obligation to
update or publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K
or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Valero Energy Corporation(1) is one of the United States' largest
independent petroleum refiners and marketers, and the largest on the Gulf Coast.
Valero owns and operates five refineries in Texas, Louisiana and New Jersey with
a combined throughput capacity of approximately 785,000 barrels per day, or BPD.
Valero principally produces premium, environmentally clean products such as
reformulated gasoline, low-sulfur diesel and oxygenates and can produce gasoline
meeting specifications of the California Air Resources Board, or CARB gasoline.
Valero also produces a substantial slate of middle distillates, jet fuel and
petrochemicals. The Company's products are marketed in 31 states and selected
export markets.

     As used in this report, the terms "Valero" and the "Company" may, depending
upon the context, refer to Valero Energy Corporation, to one or more of its
consolidated subsidiaries or to all of them taken as a whole.

     Valero's principal executive offices are located at One Valero Place, San
Antonio, Texas, 78212 and its telephone number is (210) 370-2000.

- ---------------

(1) Valero was incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero Refining
    and Marketing Company as a wholly owned subsidiary of Valero Energy
    Corporation, referred to as Old Valero. Old Valero was engaged in both the
    refining and marketing business and the natural gas related services
    business. On July 31, 1997, Old Valero spun off Valero to Old Valero's
    stockholders by distributing all of the common stock of Valero. Immediately
    after this distribution, Old Valero, with its remaining natural gas related
    services business, merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of PG&E
    Corporation. The distribution of Valero to Old Valero's stockholders and the
    merger of Old Valero with the subsidiary of PG&E Corporation are
    collectively referred to as the "Restructuring." Upon completion of the
    Restructuring, Valero's name was changed from Valero Refining and Marketing
    Company to Valero Energy Corporation and its common stock was listed for
    trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "VLO."


     For financial and statistical information regarding the Company's
operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations." For a discussion of cash flows provided by and used in
the Company's operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."

PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CALIFORNIA REFINING AND MARKETING ASSETS

     On March 2, 2000, Valero and ExxonMobil Corporation executed a sale and
purchase agreement for the purchase by Valero of ExxonMobil's Benicia,
California refinery and all Exxon-branded California retail assets for a
purchase price of $895 million plus an amount representing the value of
inventories acquired in the transaction, which will be based on market-related
prices at closing. ExxonMobil agreed to sell these assets as a result of Consent
Decrees issued by the Federal Trade Commission and the State of California
providing that certain assets be divested by ExxonMobil to satisfy
anticompetitive issues in connection with the recent merger of Exxon Corporation
and Mobil Corporation. Valero's acquisition of the ExxonMobil California assets
is pending approval from the Federal Trade Commission and the State of
California.

     The Benicia Refinery is located on the Carquinez Straits of the San
Francisco Bay. It is considered a highly complex refinery and has a rated crude
oil capacity of 130,000 barrels per day. The Benicia Refinery produces a high
percentage of light products, with limited production of natural gas liquids and
other products. Over 95% of the gasoline produced by the Benicia Refinery meets
the California Air Resources Board specifications for gasoline sold in
California. The refinery has significant liquid storage capacity including
storage for crude oil and other feedstocks. Also included with the refinery
assets are a deepwater dock located offsite on the Carquinez Straits which is
capable of berthing large crude carriers, petroleum coke storage silos located
on an adjacent dock, a 20-inch crude pipeline connecting the refinery to a
southern California crude delivery system, and an adjacent truck terminal for
regional truck rack sales. Under the Consent Decrees, ExxonMobil was required to
offer the buyer of the divested assets a crude oil supply contract. As a
consequence, the sale and purchase agreement includes a contract allowing Valero
to purchase up to 100,000 barrels per day of Alaska North Slope crude oil at
market-related prices delivered to the Benicia Refinery.

     The retail assets include 10 company-owned and operated sites and 70
company-owned lessee-dealer sites, 75 of which are in the San Francisco Bay
area. Under the Consent Decrees, the Federal Trade Commission and the State of
California ordered that ExxonMobil withdraw the "Exxon" brand name from this
area. As a result, ExxonMobil has notified the dealers in this market area that
their franchise right to market "Exxon" branded products is being terminated
effective June 15, 2000. Valero will offer its own brand to market retail
petroleum products at these locations. Due to the timing requirements of
ExxonMobil's franchise termination notice to various dealers as described above,
ExxonMobil cannot close the transaction until (i) all of the dealers agree to
terminate their franchise agreements or (ii) June 15, 2000, whichever comes
first.

     Also included in the retail assets are up to 260 independently-owned and
operated distributor facilities which are located outside of the San Francisco
Bay area. The distributor locations will retain the right to use the Exxon
brand, continue to accept the Exxon proprietary credit card and receive Exxon
brand support, while Valero will receive the exclusive rights to offer the Exxon
brand throughout the state (except for the San Francisco Bay area) for a
ten-year period. In connection with the acquisition, ExxonMobil will assign to
Valero all of the existing Exxon California distributor contracts under which
the distributors will purchase Exxon branded products from Valero after the
acquisition. Valero will supply distributors either directly through a refined
products pipeline or indirectly through petroleum product exchange transactions.

     The acquisition will be funded through a mix of debt, equity and structured
lease financing. The debt would be a combination of borrowings under Valero's
existing bank credit facility and new term debt. The equity component will be
between $250 million and $350 million of some combination of common stock and
convertible preferred stock, including mandatory convertible preferred stock. In
case any of these financing sources are not finalized or available at the
closing date, Valero will close the purchase with interim financing consisting
of (i) a committed $600 million bank bridge facility which has been established
and (ii) borrowings



under its existing bank credit facilities with related amendments to these
facilities providing for a higher debt-to-capitalization limit (which amendments
will be underwritten by the provider of the bridge financing).

     It is anticipated that the transaction will close on June 15, 2000;
however, there can be no assurance that the transaction will close on this date
or that all of the conditions required to close the transaction will be met.

VALERO'S STRATEGIC DIRECTION

     Valero has distinguished itself among independent refiners by cost
effectively upgrading its refineries to not only increase output but also
increase overall refining complexity and flexibility, enhancing Valero's ability
to process lower cost feedstocks into higher value products. Valero processes a
wide slate of feedstocks including medium sour crude oils, heavy sweet crudes
and residual fuel oils, or resid, which can typically be purchased at a discount
to West Texas Intermediate, a benchmark crude oil. Over 55% of Valero's total
gasoline production is premium or reformulated gasoline, or RFG, which sells for
a premium over conventional grades of gasoline. The Company also produces over
75% of its distillate slate as low-sulfur diesel and jet fuel, which sell for a
premium over high-sulfur heating oil. In addition to its feedstock and product
advantages, Valero has synergies among its Gulf Coast refineries which allow the
Company to transfer intermediate feedstocks such as deasphalted oil, or DAO, and
atmospheric tower bottoms, or ATBs, among the Texas City, Houston and Corpus
Christi Refineries.

     Valero intends to remain a premier, independent refining and marketing
company that adds stockholder value through innovative, efficient upgrading of
low-cost feedstocks into high value, environmentally clean products. The
following are some specific components of its strategic plan for 2000:

     - Growth through acquisitions. Valero has continued to focus on growth and
       diversification through acquisitions. In 2000, Valero will continue to
       seek refinery acquisition opportunities that are accretive to and
       diversify earnings and cash flow.

     - Cost effective upgrading. During 2000, Valero plans to expand the
       capacity of two of the Texas City Refinery's three crude units by
       approximately 37,000 BPD and its diesel hydrotreater by approximately
       14,000 BPD. Additionally, the Company plans to expand the Paulsboro
       Refinery's fluid catalytic cracking unit by 6,500 BPD and its crude unit
       by approximately 2,000 BPD.

     - Cost savings initiatives. In 1999, Valero implemented cost savings
       initiatives which resulted in operating expense savings of over $40
       million at its Gulf Coast refineries, and expects to attain further
       operating cost reductions at all of its refineries in 2000. The
       components of Valero's cost savings program include: improving mechanical
       availability, reducing maintenance costs, improving energy efficiency,
       replicating best operating practices at all refineries, improving
       purchasing efficiencies through multi-refinery contracts, reducing
       warehouse inventory and reducing the use of outside professional
       services.

     - Diversification. Valero continues to evaluate several strategies that
       offer opportunities to diversify earnings, including retail petroleum
       marketing, petrochemical ventures, and other ancillary businesses.

     - Safety and environmental. Safety is a core business value and Valero will
       continue to focus on and devote significant time and resources to safety
       training and accountability programs across the Company. Valero has a
       reputation for being environmentally proactive and will continue actively
       monitoring developments with the EPA's proposed air emissions reduction
       rules and other regulatory changes.



REFINING, MARKETING AND FEEDSTOCK SUPPLY

  Refining

     Valero's five refineries have a combined total throughput capacity of
approximately 785,000 BPD. The following table lists the location of each of its
refineries and their respective feedstock throughput capacities.



- ---------------

(1) Crude unit capacity = 528,000 BPD

     The Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs Refineries were acquired with the
acquisition of Basis Petroleum, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Salomon Inc,
on May 1, 1997. On September 16, 1998, the Paulsboro Refinery was acquired from
Mobil Oil Corporation.

     CORPUS CHRISTI REFINERY

     The Corpus Christi Refinery is situated on 254 acres along the Corpus
Christi Ship Channel. The Corpus Christi Refinery specializes in processing
primarily lower-cost heavy crude oil and resid into premium products, such as
RFG and CARB gasoline. The Corpus Christi Refinery can produce approximately
125,000 BPD of gasoline and gasoline-related products, 35,000 BPD of low-sulfur
diesel and 35,000 BPD of other products such as petrochemicals, including
propylene and xylene. The Corpus Christi Refinery can produce most of its
gasoline as RFG and all of its diesel fuel as low-sulfur diesel. The Corpus
Christi Refinery has substantial flexibility to vary its mix of gasoline
products to meet changing market conditions.

     The Corpus Christi Refinery's primary operating units include an 87,000 BPD
heavy oil cracker, or HOC, an 82,000 BPD hydrodesulfurization unit, or HDS unit,
a 36,000 BPD hydrocracker and a 37,000 BPD reformer complex. It also operates
certain units which produce oxygenates(2) such as MTBE (methyl tertiary butyl
ether) and TAME (tertiary amyl methyl ether). The Corpus Christi Refinery can
produce approximately 24,000 BPD of oxygenates, which are blended into the
Company's gasoline production and also sold separately. Substantially all of the
methanol feedstocks required for the production of oxygenates at the Corpus
Christi Refinery can normally be provided by a methanol plant in Clear Lake,
Texas owned by a joint venture between a Valero subsidiary and Hoechst Celanese
Chemical Group, Inc. In January 1997, a mixed xylene fractionation facility,
which recovers the mixed xylene stream from the Corpus Christi Refinery's
reformate stream, was placed into service at the refinery. The fractionated
xylene is sold into the petrochemical feedstock market for use in the production
of paraxylene when market conditions are favorable. These units and related
facilities diversify the Corpus Christi Refinery's operations, giving this
refinery the flexibility to pursue potentially higher-margin product markets.

     A scheduled turnaround of certain of the Corpus Christi Refinery's major
refining units was completed in the first quarter of 1999. Modifications made to
the HOC during the 1999 turnaround increased throughput capacity by
approximately 10,000 BPD. During the HOC turnaround, the HDS unit was further
modified,

- ---------------

(2) "Oxygenates" are liquid hydrocarbon compounds containing oxygen. Gasoline
    that contains oxygenates usually has lower carbon monoxide emissions than
    conventional gasoline. MTBE is an oxygen-rich, high- octane gasoline
    blendstock produced by reacting methanol and isobutylene, and is used to
    manufacture oxygenated and reformulated gasolines. TAME, like MTBE, is an
    oxygen-rich, high-octane gasoline blendstock.


increasing its capacity to process high-sulfur crude oil from approximately
50,000 BPD to 60,000 BPD, thereby increasing the refinery's feedstock
flexibility. During the third quarter of 1999, this refinery experienced
unplanned downtime as a precaution against the effects of Hurricane Bret.
Turnarounds of the hydrocracker and reformer complexes were completed in January
2000, and turnarounds of the HDS and MTBE units are planned for the fourth
quarter of 2000.

     TEXAS CITY REFINERY

     The Texas City Refinery is capable of refining lower-cost medium sour
crudes into a slate of gasolines and distillates, including home heating oil,
low-sulfur diesel, kerosene and jet fuel. The Texas City Refinery can produce
approximately 70,000 BPD of gasoline and 65,000 BPD of distillates. Other
products include chemical grade propylene and propane. The Texas City Refinery
can also provide approximately 35,000 BPD of intermediate feedstocks such as DAO
and ATBs to the Corpus Christi Refinery and/or the Houston Refinery. The
refinery typically receives and delivers its feedstocks and products by tanker
and barge via deep water docking facilities along the Texas City Ship Channel,
and also has access to the Colonial, Explorer and TEPPCO pipelines for
distribution of its products.

     The Texas City Refinery's primary operating units include a 168,000 BPD
crude distillation complex and a 52,000 BPD fluid catalytic cracking unit, or
FCC Unit. During the latter part of 1996, an 85,000 BPD Residfiner (which
reduces the sulfur content and improves the cracking characteristics of the
feedstocks for the FCC Unit), and a 40,000 BPD Residual Oil Supercritical
Extraction unit, or ROSE unit (which recovers DAO from the vacuum tower bottoms
for feed to the FCC Unit), were placed in service at the Texas City Refinery.
These units significantly enhanced this refinery's feedstock flexibility and
product diversity.

     During 1999, the Texas City Refinery entered into long-term hydrogen supply
arrangements with Air Liquide and Praxair, respectively, in order to mitigate
certain hydrogen supply problems encountered in previous years. A scheduled
turnaround was completed on the Residfiner and the ROSE unit in April 1999 and
one of the crude units in October 1999. In 2000, the Company intends to expand
two of the refinery's crude units by an aggregate of 37,000 BPD and the diesel
hydrotreating unit by 14,000 BPD. Additionally, the annual catalyst replacement
for the Residfiner is planned for the second quarter of 2000.

     PAULSBORO REFINERY

     On September 16, 1998, Valero Refining Company-New Jersey, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Valero, purchased substantially all of the assets related to Mobil
Oil Corporation's 155,000 BPD refinery in Paulsboro, New Jersey and assumed
certain of its liabilities. The purchase price was $228 million plus
approximately $107 million representing the value of inventories and certain
other items acquired in the transaction.

     As part of the acquisition, Valero and Mobil signed long-term agreements
for the Paulsboro Refinery to supply Mobil's adjacent lube oil blending and
packaging facility with fuels and lubricant basestocks. In addition, Valero and
Mobil signed long-term agreements for the Paulsboro Refinery to supply portions
of Mobil's marketing operations with light products at market-related prices.

     The acquisition of the Paulsboro Refinery increased the Company's total
throughput capacity by approximately 25%, improved its geographic diversity by
providing better access to Northeast markets and diversified its product mix
through the Paulsboro Refinery's production of lubricant basestocks and asphalt.

     The Paulsboro Refinery processes primarily medium sour and heavy sour
crudes into a wide slate of gasoline and distillates, lubricant basestocks and
asphalt. The Paulsboro Refinery can produce approximately 70,000 BPD of
gasoline, 60,000 BPD of distillates, 15,000 BPD of asphalt and 12,000 BPD of
lubricant basestocks. Major units at the Paulsboro Refinery include a 105,000
BPD lubricants crude unit, a 50,000 BPD fuels crude unit, a 48,000 BPD FCC Unit,
a 25,000 BPD delayed coking unit, a 15,000 BPD asphalt unit and a 12,000 BPD
lubricants plant. Feedstocks and refined products are typically transported via
refinery-owned dock facilities along the Delaware River, Mobil's product
distribution system or the refinery's access to the Colonial pipeline, which
allows products to be sold into the New York Harbor market.



     During 1999, scheduled turnarounds were completed on the distillate
hydrotreater and reformer units. The Paulsboro Refinery experienced unscheduled
processing rate reductions and unit downtime during 1999, primarily associated
with its FCC Unit. A scheduled turnaround and 6,500 BPD expansion of the FCC
Unit and 2,000 BPD expansion of one of the crude units are planned for the
second quarter of 2000 in conjunction with scheduled turnarounds. A turnaround
of the naphtha hydrotreater and regeneration of the naphtha reformer catalyst
are also planned for the fourth quarter of 2000.

     HOUSTON REFINERY

     The Houston Refinery is capable of processing both heavy sweet and medium
sour crude oils and can produce approximately 60,000 BPD of gasoline and 30,000
BPD of distillates. The refinery also produces chemical grade propylene. It
operates an 85,000 BPD crude distillation complex and a 61,000 BPD FCC Unit. The
refinery typically receives its feedstocks via tanker at deep water docking
facilities along the Houston Ship Channel. This facility also has access to
major product pipelines, including the Colonial, Explorer and TEPPCO pipelines.

     During the second quarter of 1999, the Houston Refinery's naphtha reformer
was refurbished, which increased yields from the unit by 5,000 BPD and increased
its flexibility to produce a higher percentage of RFG and premium gasoline. The
Houston Refinery experienced one unplanned outage of its FCC Unit during the
fourth quarter of 1999. No major turnarounds are currently planned for 2000.

     KROTZ SPRINGS REFINERY

     The Krotz Springs Refinery processes primarily local, light Louisiana sweet
crude oil and can produce approximately 40,000 BPD of gasoline and 45,000 BPD of
distillates. The refinery is geographically located to benefit from access to
upriver markets on the Mississippi River and it has docking facilities along the
Atchafalaya River sufficiently deep to allow barge and light ship access. The
facility is also connected to the Colonial pipeline for product transportation
to the Southeast and Northeast. Built during the 1979-1982 time period, the
refinery is a relatively new facility compared to other U.S. refineries. Primary
units include an 80,000 BPD crude distillation complex, a 31,000 BPD FCC Unit
and a 12,000 BPD reformer complex.

     No significant turnarounds were undertaken by the Krotz Springs Refinery in
1999. A turnaround of the reformer complex was completed in January 2000.



     SELECTED OPERATING RESULTS

     The following tables set forth certain consolidated operating results for
the last three fiscal years (volumes are stated in thousand barrels per day or
MBPD). Amounts for 1998 include the results of operations of the Paulsboro
Refinery after September 16, 1998. Amounts for 1997 include the results of
operations of the Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs Refineries from May 1,
1997. Average throughput margin per barrel is computed by subtracting total
direct product cost of sales from product sales revenues and dividing the result
by throughput volumes. Aggregate refinery charges and yields are expressed as
percentages of total charges and yields, respectively.



     For additional information regarding the Company's operating results for
the three years ended December 31, 1999, see "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
- ---------------

(3) For the fourth quarter of 1998 following the acquisition of the Paulsboro
    Refinery, refinery throughput volumes and sales volumes were 640 MBPD and
    949 MBPD, respectively.

(4) For the eight months following the acquisition of Basis Petroleum, Inc.,
    refinery throughput volumes and sales volumes were 543 MBPD and 740 MBPD,
    respectively.

  Marketing

     The Company's product slate is presently comprised of approximately 90%
premium products such as gasoline and related components, distillates, lubricant
basestocks and petrochemicals. Valero sells refined products under spot and term
contracts to bulk and truck rack customers at over 190 locations in 31 states
throughout the United States and selected export markets in Latin America. Total
product sales volumes



during 1999 averaged approximately 1,033,000 BPD. Sales volumes include amounts
produced at the Company's refineries and amounts purchased from third parties
and resold in connection with its marketing activities. Substantially all of the
light products from the Paulsboro Refinery are sold to Mobil at market-related
prices pursuant to long-term agreements. Currently, Valero markets over 180,000
BPD of gasoline and distillates through truck rack facilities. The principal
purchasers of its products from truck racks have been wholesalers and
distributors in the Northeast, Southeast, Midwest and Gulf Coast. Other sales
are made to large oil companies and gasoline distributors and transported by
pipeline, barges and tankers. With its access to the Gulf of Mexico and the
Atlantic Ocean, Valero's refineries are able to ship refined products throughout
the world. Interconnects with common-carrier pipelines give Valero the
flexibility to sell products in most major geographic regions of the United
States. In 1999, 13% of Valero's consolidated operating revenues were derived
from Mobil Oil Corporation. Other than sales to Mobil, no single purchaser of
the Company's products accounted for more than 10% of total sales during 1999.

     Approximately 70,000 BPD of Valero's RFG production is under contract at
market-related prices to gasoline marketers in Texas and the Northeast. Valero
also sells RFG into the spot market. When market conditions are favorable,
Valero can supply CARB gasoline to West Coast markets. During 1999,
approximately 2.7 million barrels of gasoline, including 1.6 million barrels of
CARB Phase II gasoline, were delivered to California purchasers.

     For further discussion, see "Factors Affecting Operating Results" and
"Outlook" under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations."

  Feedstock Supply

     Refinery acquisitions and capital improvements since 1997 have expanded and
diversified the slate of feedstocks Valero can process. Prior to these
investments, Valero's primary feedstock was resid processed at the Corpus
Christi Refinery, representing 50-70% of total feedstocks. Approximately 60% of
Valero's feedstock slate is now comprised of medium sour crude oil and heavy
sweet crude oil, while high-sulfur resid purchases comprise less than 5% of
total feedstocks. The remaining feedstocks are primarily low-sulfur crude oil
and intermediates, such as low-sulfur resid and coker gas oil, methanol and
butane.

     Approximately 80% of Valero's total crude oil feedstock requirements are
purchased through term feedstock contracts totaling approximately 425,000 BPD.
The remainder of its crude oil feedstock requirements are purchased on the spot
market. The term agreements include contracts to purchase feedstocks from
various foreign national oil companies, including certain Middle Eastern
suppliers, and various domestic integrated oil companies. In the event one or
more of its term contracts were terminated, the Company believes it would be
able to find alternative sources of supply without material adverse effect on
its business.

     In connection with the Restructuring in 1997 (discussed in footnote 1
above), Valero entered into several contracts with its former affiliates,
including a 10-year term contract under which a former affiliate is to supply
approximately 50% of the butane required as feedstock for the MTBE facilities at
Corpus Christi and natural gasoline for blending. Approximately 80% of the total
methanol requirements for all of Valero's refineries are obtained through a 50%
joint venture interest in the methanol plant in Clear Lake, Texas with Hoechst
Celanese Chemical Group, Inc.

     Valero owns feedstock and refined product storage facilities and leases
feedstock and refined product storage facilities in various locations. The
Company believes its storage facilities are generally adequate for its refining
and marketing operations.

FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS

     The Company's earnings and cash flow from operations are primarily affected
by the relationship between refined product prices and the prices for crude oil
and other feedstocks. The cost to acquire feedstocks and the price for which
refined products are ultimately sold depends on numerous factors beyond the
Company's control, including the global, national and regional supply and demand
for crude oil, gasoline, diesel, heating oil and other feedstocks and refined
products, which in turn are dependent upon, among other things, weather,



the availability of imports, the economies and production levels of foreign
suppliers, the marketing of competitive fuels, political affairs and the extent
of governmental regulation.

     Feedstock and refined product prices are also affected by other factors,
such as product pipeline capacity, local market conditions and the operating
levels of competing refineries. Crude oil costs and the price of refined
products have historically been subject to wide fluctuation. Expansion and
installation of additional refinery crude distillation and upgrading facilities,
price volatility, international political and economic developments and other
factors beyond the Company's control are likely to continue to play an important
role in refining industry economics. These factors can impact, among other
things, the level of inventories in the market resulting in price volatility and
a reduction in product margins. Moreover, the industry typically experiences
seasonal fluctuations in demand for refined products, such as for gasoline
during the summer driving season and for home heating oil during the winter in
the Northeast. For example, three consecutive unseasonably warm winters in the
Northeast resulted in reduced demand, unusually high inventories and
considerably lower prices for heating oil during 1999.

     A large portion of Valero's feedstock supplies are secured under term
contracts. There is no assurance of renewal of these contracts upon their
expiration or that economically equivalent substitute supply contracts can be
secured. Feedstock supplies from international producers are loaded aboard
chartered vessels and are subject to the usual maritime hazards. If foreign
sources of crude oil or access to the marine system for delivering crude oil
were curtailed, the Company's operations could be adversely affected. In
addition, the loss of, or an adverse change in the terms of, certain of its
feedstock supply agreements or the loss of sources or means of delivery of its
feedstock supplies, could adversely affect its operating results. The volatility
of prices and quantities of feedstocks that may be purchased on the spot market
or pursuant to term contracts could also have a material adverse effect on
operating results.

     Because Valero manufactures a significant portion of its gasoline as RFG
and can produce approximately 28,000 BPD of oxygenates, certain federal and
state clean-fuel programs significantly affect its operations and the markets in
which Valero sells refined products. In the future, Valero cannot control or
with certainty predict the effect these clean-fuel programs may have on the cost
to manufacture, demand for or supply of refined products. Presently, the EPA's
oxygenated fuel program under the Clean Air Act requires that areas designated
"nonattainment" for carbon monoxide use gasoline that contains a prescribed
amount of clean burning oxygenates during certain winter months. Additionally,
the EPA's RFG program under the Clean Air Act requires year-round usage of RFG
in areas designated "extreme" or "severe" nonattainment for ozone. In addition
to these nonattainment areas, approximately 44 of the 87 areas that were
designated as "serious," "moderate" or "marginal" nonattainment for ozone also
"opted in" to the RFG program to decrease their emissions of hydrocarbons and
toxic pollutants. Phase II of the federal RFG program became effective in
January 2000, further restricting the acceptable levels of nitrous oxides,
volatile organic compounds and toxics in gasoline. In order to meet the new
restrictions, refiners will necessarily need to reduce the sulfur, benzene and
vapor pressure of gasoline, which could effectively reduce the production
capacity of U.S. refiners.

     MTBE margins are affected by the price of MTBE and its feedstocks, methanol
and butane, as well as the demand for RFG, oxygenated gasoline and premium
gasoline. The worldwide movement to reduce lead and aromatics in gasoline is
expected to increase worldwide demand for oxygenates to replace the octane
provided by lead-based compounds. The general growth in demand for cleaner
burning gasolines could lead to continued growth in the demand for MTBE.
However, initiatives have been passed in California seeking to ban the use of
MTBE as a gasoline component by 2003 in California. If MTBE were to be
restricted or banned throughout the U.S., the Company believes that its major
MTBE-producing facilities could be modified to produce other high-octane
gasoline blendstocks or other petrochemicals for a minimal capital investment.
Since the volume of alternative products that could be produced would be less
than the current production of MTBE and the price of such alternative products
is currently lower than the price of MTBE, the Company's results of operations
could potentially be adversely affected. The Company anticipates, however, that
if MTBE were to be restricted or banned, the resulting industry-wide shortage in
octane-enhancing components would cause a significant change in the economics
related to the Company's various alternative products, and as a result, such an
action would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company.



     Because Valero's refineries are generally more complex than many
conventional refineries and are designed to process heavy and sour crude oils,
including resid, its operating costs per barrel are generally higher than those
of most conventional refiners. But because Valero's primary feedstocks usually
sell at discounts to benchmark crude oil, the Company has generally been able to
recover its higher operating costs by generating higher margins than many
conventional refiners that use lighter crudes as their principal feedstocks.
Moreover, through recent acquisitions, improvements in technology and
modifications to its operating units, Valero has improved its flexibility to
process different types of feedstocks, including heavy crude oils. The Company
expects its primary feedstocks will continue to sell at a discount to benchmark
crude oil, but is unable to predict future relationships between the supply of
and demand for its feedstocks.

     In April 1995, six major oil refiners filed a lawsuit against Unocal
Corporation in Los Angeles, California seeking a determination that Unocal's
claimed patent on certain gasoline compositions was invalid and unenforceable.
The Company was not a party to this litigation. Unocal's claimed patent covers a
substantial portion of the reformulated gasoline compositions required by the
CARB Phase II regulations that went into effect in March 1996. In 1997, a
federal court jury upheld the validity of Unocal's patent and awarded Unocal
royalty damages based on infringement of the patent. The case is on appeal, but
no decision has been reached. Unocal also has three related gasoline patents not
involved in the litigation. If Valero were required to pay a royalty on the
compositions claimed by Unocal's patents, such amounts could affect its
operating results and alter the blending economics for compositions not covered
by the patents. Valero is unable to predict the validity or effect of any
claimed Unocal patent.

COMPETITION

     Many of Valero's competitors in the petroleum industry are fully integrated
companies engaged on a national or international basis in many segments of the
petroleum business, including exploration, production, transportation, refining
and marketing, on scales much larger than Valero's. Such competitors may have
greater flexibility in responding to or absorbing market changes occurring in
one or more of such segments. All of the Company's crude oil and feedstock
supplies are purchased from third party sources, while some competitors have
proprietary sources of crude oil available for their own refineries.

     The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock
supply and marketing. Valero competes with numerous other companies for
available supplies of feedstocks and for outlets for its refined products.
Valero does not produce any of its crude oil feedstocks or own retail outlets
for its refined products. Many of its competitors, however, obtain a significant
portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and are able to
dispose of refined products at their own retail outlets. Competitors that have
their own production or retail outlets (and brand-name recognition) are at times
able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or
retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of
depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages.

     The Company expects a continuation of the trend of industry restructuring
and consolidation through mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures
and similar transactions, making for a more competitive business environment
while providing opportunities to expand its operations. As refining margins
merit, Valero expects to continue making capital improvements to increase the
throughput capacity of its refinery facilities and increase their operational
flexibility.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Valero's operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal,
state and local authorities, including but not limited to, the EPA, the Texas
Natural Resource Conservation Commission, the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality.
The regulatory requirements relate primarily to discharge of materials into the
environment, waste management and pollution prevention measures. Several of the
more significant federal laws applicable to the Company's operations include the
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as
amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA. The Clean Air
Act establishes stringent criteria for



regulating conventional air pollutants as well as toxic pollutants at operating
facilities in addition to requiring refiners to market cleaner-burning gasoline
in specific regions of the country to reduce ozone forming pollutants and toxic
emissions.

     In December 1999, the Tier II gasoline standard was published by the EPA in
final form. The standard will ultimately require the sulfur content in gasoline
to be reduced to 30 parts per million and the regulation will be phased in
beginning in 2004. Valero has determined that modifications will be required at
all of its refineries as a result of the Tier II standard. Valero currently
plans to begin implementing those modifications in 2001 and expects all
modifications to be complete by 2006.

     EPA has proposed a Maximum Available Control Technology rule, or MACT II
rule, under the Clean Air Act that is to become final in late 2000. The MACT II
rule, as proposed, contains a three-year compliance schedule for refiners to
install any pollution control technology that may be required in order to meet
emissions limitations of the rule applicable to FCC units, sulfur recovery units
and reformers. Once the MACT II rule is finalized and published, Valero will
determine what capital improvements will be required. Based on information
currently available, Valero does not anticipate that significant capital
expenditures will be required to comply with the MACT II rule.

     CERCLA and RCRA, and related state law, subject the Company to the
potential obligation to remove or mitigate the environmental impact of the
disposal or release of certain pollutants from Valero's facilities and at
formerly owned sites. Under CERCLA, the Company is subject to potential joint
and several liability for the costs of remediation at "superfund" sites at which
it has been identified as a "potentially responsible party." Pursuant to the
terms of the Basis Petroleum, Inc. acquisition, Salomon agreed to indemnify the
Company from third party claims, including "superfund" liability associated with
any pre-closing activities with respect to the refineries acquired as part of
the acquisition, subject to certain terms, conditions and limitations. See Note
3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the
settlement of certain contingent environmental obligations for which Salomon was
responsible in connection with the Company's acquisition of Basis. As of
December 31, 1999, Valero has not been designated as a "potentially responsible
party" under CERCLA for any sites or costs not covered by Salomon's indemnity.

     In connection with the acquisition of the Paulsboro Refinery, Mobil agreed
to indemnify Valero for certain environmental matters and conditions existing on
or prior to the acquisition and Valero agreed to assume Mobil's environmental
liabilities, with certain limited exceptions (including "superfund" liability
for off-site waste disposal). Mobil's indemnities and the periods of
indemnification include (i) third party environmental claims for a period of
five years from the closing date, (ii) governmental fines and/or penalties for a
period of five years from the closing date, (iii) required remediation of known
environmental conditions for a period of five years from the closing date,
subject to a cumulative deductible, (iv) required remediation of unknown
environmental conditions for a period of seven years from the closing date,
subject to a sharing arrangement with a cap on the Company's obligation and
subject to a cumulative deductible, and (v) certain capital expenditures
required by a governmental entity for a three-year period from the closing date,
to the extent required to cure a breach of certain representations of Mobil
concerning compliance with environmental laws, subject to a specified
deductible. The Company's assumed liabilities include remediation obligations to
the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. These remediation
obligations relate primarily to clean-up costs associated with groundwater
contamination, landfill closure and post-closure monitoring costs, and tank farm
spill prevention costs. As of December 31, 1999, the Company has accrued
approximately $20 million representing its best estimate of costs to be borne by
Valero related to these remediation obligations. The majority of such costs are
expected to be incurred in relatively level amounts over the next 19 years. See
Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The Company is leading an industry initiative in the State of Texas to
voluntarily permit its "grandfathered" emissions sources by participating in the
Governor's Clean Air Responsibility Enterprise program at the Houston Refinery
and by utilizing a flexible permitting process for the Texas City Refinery. The
flexible permit is a permitting process in Texas that allows companies that have
committed to install advanced pollution control technology greater operational
flexibility, including increased throughput capacities, as long as a
facility-wide emissions cap is not exceeded.



     As part of Valero's efforts to permit all of its "grandfathered" emissions
sources and achieve operational flexibility and increased production capability,
a flue gas scrubber is being installed on the FCC Unit at the Texas City
Refinery and additional emission control devices are planned for the Houston
Refinery. Installation of the flue gas scrubber will cost approximately $35
million over a two-year period and Valero is financing the scrubber through a
lease arrangement. The Corpus Christi Refinery was issued a flexible operating
permit by the Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission on March 1, 1999,
and the Commission approved a flexible operating permit for the Texas City
Refinery on February 9, 2000.

     In 1999, capital expenditures for the Company attributable to compliance
with environmental regulations were approximately $7 million and are currently
estimated to be $7 million for 2000 and $22 million for 2001. The foregoing
estimates for 2000 and 2001 do not include expenditures for the installation of
the flue gas scrubber discussed above and do not include any amounts related to
constructed facilities for which the portion of expenditures relating to
compliance with environmental regulations is not determinable.

     Governmental regulations are complex and subject to different
interpretations. Therefore, future action and regulatory initiatives could
result in changes to expected operating permits, additional remedial actions or
increased capital expenditures and operating costs that cannot be assessed with
certainty at this time.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



     Mr. Greehey served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Old Valero
from 1979, and as Chairman of the Board of Old Valero from 1983. He retired from
his position as Chief Executive Officer in June 1996 but, upon request of the
Board, resumed this position in November 1996. Mr. Greehey has served as
Valero's as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the
Restructuring, positions he also held with Valero prior to the Restructuring
when Valero was a wholly owned subsidiary of Old Valero, and was elected
President of the Company upon the retirement of Edward C. Benninger at the end
of 1998. Mr. Greehey also serves as a director of Santa Fe Snyder Corp.

     Mr. King was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of
Valero in 1999. Prior to that time he had served as Vice President and General
Counsel since 1997. He joined Old Valero in 1993 as Associate General Counsel
and prior to that was a partner in the Houston law firm of Bracewell and
Patterson.

     Mr. Gibbons was elected Chief Financial Officer of the Company in 1998.
Previously, he was elected Vice President -- Finance and Treasurer of Valero in
1997, and was elected Treasurer of Old Valero in 1992. He joined Old Valero in
1981 and held various other positions with Old Valero prior to the
Restructuring.

     Mr. Booke was elected Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in
1999. Until that time he had served as Vice President -- Administration and
Human Resources of the Company since 1998. Prior to that he served as Vice
President -- Administration of the Company since 1997 and Vice
President -- Investor Relations of Old Valero since 1994. He joined Old Valero
in 1983 and held various other positions with Old Valero prior to the
Restructuring.

     Mr. Edwards was elected Vice President of the Company in January 1998 and
functions as head of the Supply, Marketing and Transportation Division. Mr.
Edwards joined Old Valero in 1982 and held various



positions within Old Valero's refining operations, planning and economics,
business development and marketing departments prior to the Restructuring.

     Mr. Hohnholt was elected Vice President of the Company in January 1998 and
functions as the head of the Refining Operations Division. Prior to that he was
General Manager of the Corpus Christi Refinery. Mr. Hohnholt joined Old Valero
in 1982 and held various positions within Old Valero's refining operations and
engineering departments prior to the Restructuring.

EMPLOYEES

     As of January 31, 2000, the Company had 2,518 employees.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     The Company's properties include its five refineries described above and
related facilities located in the States of Texas, Louisiana and New Jersey. See
"Refining, Marketing and Feedstock Supply" for additional information regarding
properties of the Company. Valero believes that its facilities are generally
adequate for their respective operations and that its facilities are maintained
in a good state of repair. The Company is the lessee under a number of
cancelable and non-cancelable leases for certain real properties, including
office facilities and various facilities and equipment used to store, transport
and produce refinery feedstocks and/or refined products. See Note 14 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  Environmental Proceedings Related to Paulsboro Acquisition

     In connection with the acquisition of the Paulsboro Refinery from Mobil,
Valero Refining Company-New Jersey, a wholly owned subsidiary of Valero, assumed
certain environmental liabilities associated with the refinery, including
obligations under the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
Administrative Consent Orders dated September 10, 1979, September 29, 1980, May
10, 1991, and August 27, 1998, related to ongoing site remediation.
Additionally, Valero has received two New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection Administrative Orders and Notices of Civil Administrative Penalty
Assessment related to particulate tests of the Paulsboro Refinery's FCC Unit.
One of these orders has been consolidated with pre-existing Mobil orders.
Collectively, these proceedings potentially involve the imposition of monetary
sanctions in excess of $100,000 and other equitable relief which could
ultimately include required capital expenditures or permit modification or
revocation. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, Mobil agreed to
indemnify the Company for a period of five years from the closing of the
acquisition for any governmental environmental fines or penalties assessed
against the Company that relate to events that occurred prior to September 17,
1998. The Company believes that the foregoing proceedings should not have a
material adverse effect upon the Company's operations or financial condition.

  Other Environmental Proceedings

     On June 11, 1999, the Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission
notified the Company of its commencement of proceedings against the Company's
Texas City refinery concerning certain record keeping deficiencies and alleged
emissions exceedances, most of which occurred prior to the Company's acquisition
of the refinery. Corrective action was immediately taken and all contested
matters have been resolved pursuant to an agreed order dated December 20, 1999,
under which the Company paid an agreed penalty of $174,455.

  Litigation Relating to Discontinued Operations

     Old Valero and certain of its natural gas related subsidiaries, and the
Company, have been sued by Teco Pipeline Company in the 215th State District
Court, Harris County, Texas regarding the operation of the 340-mile West Texas
Pipeline in which a subsidiary of Old Valero holds a 50% undivided interest. The
case was filed April 24, 1996. In 1985, a subsidiary of Old Valero sold a 50%
undivided interest in the pipeline and entered into a joint venture through an
ownership agreement and an operating agreement, with the purchaser



of the interest. In 1988, Teco succeeded to that purchaser's 50% interest. A
subsidiary of Old Valero has at all times been the operator of the pipeline.
Despite the written ownership and operating agreements, the plaintiff contends
that a separate, unwritten partnership agreement exists, and that the defendants
have exercised improper control over this alleged partnership's affairs. The
plaintiff also contends that the defendants acted in bad faith and negatively
affected the economics of the joint venture in order to provide financial
advantages to facilities or entities owned by the defendants, and by allegedly
taking for the defendants' own benefit certain opportunities available to the
joint venture. The plaintiff asserts causes of action for breach of fiduciary
duty, fraud, tortious interference with business relationships, professional
malpractice and other claims, and seeks unquantified actual and punitive
damages. Old Valero's motion to require arbitration of the case as required in
the written agreements was denied by the trial court, but Old Valero appealed,
and in August 1999, the court of appeals ruled in Old Valero's favor and ordered
arbitration of the entire dispute. Teco has since waived efforts to further
appeal this ruling, and an arbitration panel has been selected. The Company has
been formally added to this proceeding. The arbitration panel has scheduled the
arbitration hearing for October 2000. Although PG&E previously acquired Teco and
now owns both Teco and Old Valero, PG&E's Teco acquisition agreement purports to
assign the benefit or detriment of this lawsuit to the former shareholders of
Teco. In connection with the Restructuring, the Company has agreed to indemnify
Old Valero with respect to this lawsuit for 50% of any final judgment or
settlement amount up to $30 million, and 100% of that part of any final judgment
or settlement amount over $30 million.

  Other Litigation

     In 1986, the Company filed suit against M.W. Kellogg Company for damages
arising from certain alleged design and construction defects in connection with
a major construction project at the Corpus Christi Refinery. Ingersoll-Rand
Company was added as a defendant in 1989. In 1991, the trial court granted
summary judgment against Valero based in part on certain exculpatory provisions
in various agreements connected with the project. In 1993, the court of appeals
affirmed the summary judgment and the Texas Supreme Court denied review.
Subsequent to the summary judgment, Kellogg and Ingersoll-Rand brought indemnity
claims against Valero for attorney's fees and expenses incurred in defending the
original action. In 1996, the trial court rendered summary judgment against
Kellogg and Ingersoll-Rand based on procedural grounds, and the court of appeals
affirmed that ruling in 1997. However, in 1999, the Texas Supreme Court reversed
the court of appeals and remanded Kellogg's and Ingersoll-Rand's claims for
attorney's fees and expenses to the 117th State District Court, Nueces County,
Texas. The Company has denied that it has any liability with respect to these
claims and has raised several substantive defenses to these claims in the trial
court.

  General

     The Company is also a party to additional claims and legal proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes it is unlikely
that the final outcome of any of the claims or proceedings to which it is a
party would have a material adverse effect on its financial statements; however,
due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, the range of possible loss, if
any, cannot be estimated with a reasonable degree of precision and there can be
no assurance that the resolution of any particular claim or proceeding would not
have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial
condition.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1999.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's common stock is listed under the symbol "VLO" on the New York
Stock Exchange, which is the principal trading market for this security. As of
February 1, 2000, there were approximately 5,445 holders of record and an
estimated 10,800 additional beneficial owners of the Company's common stock. The
Company's common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on August 1,
1997 (the business day immediately following the Restructuring).

     The following table sets forth the range of the high and low sales prices
of the common stock as quoted in The Wall Street Journal New York Stock
Exchange -- Composite Transactions listing, and the amount of per-share
dividends for each quarter in the preceding two years.



     The Company's Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $.08 per
share of common stock at its January 20, 2000 meeting. Dividends are considered
quarterly by the Board of Directors and may be paid only when approved by the
Board.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The selected financial data set forth below for the year ended December 31,
1999 is derived from the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements contained
in this report. The selected financial data for the years ended prior to
December 31, 1999 is derived from the selected financial data contained in the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

     The following summaries are in thousands of dollars except for per share
amounts:



- ---------------

(1) Includes the operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17,
    1998.

(2) The 1998 operating loss includes a $170.9 million write-down of inventories
    to market value, which resulted in a $111.1 million reduction in net income,
    or $1.98 per share.

(3) Includes the operations of the Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs
    refineries beginning May 1, 1997.

(4) Reflects the results of Old Valero's natural gas related services business
    for periods prior to the July 31, 1997 Restructuring.

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     The following review of the results of operations and financial condition
of the Company should be read in conjunction with Item 1. Business and Item 8.
Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. In the discussions that
follow, all "per share" amounts are on a diluted basis.

RESTRUCTURING

     As described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation, on July 31, 1997, Old
Valero spun off the Company to Old Valero's stockholders and merged its
remaining natural gas related services business with PG&E. These events are
collectively referred to as the "Restructuring." As a result of the
Restructuring, the Company became a "successor registrant" to Old Valero for
financial reporting purposes under the federal securities laws. Accordingly, for
periods before the Restructuring, the following Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated
financial statements included elsewhere in this report, reflect Old Valero's
natural gas related services business as discontinued operations of the Company.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     The following discussion contains certain estimates, predictions,
projections and other "forward-looking statements" (within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934) that involve various risks and uncertainties. While these
forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are
made in good faith and reflect the Company's current judgment regarding the
direction of its business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes
materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions, or other
future performance suggested herein. Some important factors (but not necessarily
all factors) that could affect the Company's sales volumes, growth strategies,
future profitability and operating results, or that otherwise could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statement include the following: renewal or satisfactory replacement of the
Company's feedstock arrangements as well as market, political or other forces
generally affecting the pricing and availability of refinery feedstocks and
refined products; write-downs of inventories caused by a material decline in
petroleum prices; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting the
Company's, its suppliers' or its customers' pipelines, plants, machinery or
equipment; excess industry capacity; competition from products and services
offered by other energy enterprises; changes in the cost or availability of
third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transporting feedstocks and
products; cancellation of or failure to implement planned capital projects and
realize the various assumptions and benefits projected for such projects; state
and federal environmental, economic, safety and other policies and regulations,
any changes therein, and any legal or regulatory delays or other factors beyond
the Company's control; weather conditions affecting the Company's operations or
the areas in which the Company's products are marketed; rulings, judgments, or
settlements in litigation or other legal matters, including unexpected
environmental remediation costs in excess of any reserves; the introduction or
enactment of federal or state legislation which may adversely affect the
Company's business or operations; and changes in the credit ratings assigned to
the Company's debt securities and trade credit. All subsequent written and oral
forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its
behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing. The Company
undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any
such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.

PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CALIFORNIA REFINING AND MARKETING ASSETS

     On March 2, 2000, Valero and ExxonMobil Corporation executed a sale and
purchase agreement for the purchase by Valero of ExxonMobil's Benicia,
California refinery and all Exxon-branded California retail assets. ExxonMobil
agreed to sell these assets as a result of Consent Decrees issued by the Federal
Trade Commission and the State of California providing that certain assets be
divested by ExxonMobil to satisfy anticompetitive issues in connection with the
recent merger of Exxon Corporation and Mobil Corporation. Valero's acquisition
of the ExxonMobil California assets is pending approval from the Federal Trade
Commission and the State of California. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information about this proposed acquisition.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  1999 Compared to 1998

                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



- ---------------

(1) Includes the operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17,
    1998.

(2) Percentage variance is not meaningful.

(3) Includes a $111.1 million, or $1.98 per share, effect resulting from the
    $170.9 million pre-tax write-down of inventories to market value.

(4) Excludes the $170.9 million pre-tax write-down of inventories to market
    value.



                              OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS



               AVERAGE MARKET REFERENCE PRICES AND DIFFERENTIALS
                     (U.S. GULF COAST) (DOLLARS PER BARREL)



- ---------------

(1) Includes the operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17,
    1998.

(2) Includes 173 MBPD and 46 MBPD for 1999 and 1998, respectively, related to
    the Paulsboro Refinery.

(3) Excludes an $.81 per barrel reduction resulting from the $170.9 million
    pre-tax write-down of inventories to market value.

(4) Charges and yields for 1998 have been restated from amounts reported in the
    1998 Form 10-K to conform to feedstock and product classifications used in
    1999.

(5) Excludes $.25 to $.50 per barrel for other delivery related costs into the
    Company's refineries.



GENERAL

     The Company reported net income of $14.3 million, or $.25 per share, for
the year ended December 31, 1999 compared to a net loss of $47.3 million, or
$.84 per share, for the year ended December 31, 1998. For the fourth quarter of
1999, the Company reported net income of $16.5 million, or $.29 per share,
compared to a net loss of $85.7 million, or $1.53 per share, for the fourth
quarter of 1998. Non-cash inventory write-downs resulting from significant
declines in feedstock and refined product prices reduced the fourth quarter and
total year 1998 results by $133.2 million and $170.9 million, respectively.
Before the effect of the inventory write-downs, net income for the fourth
quarter of 1998 was $.9 million, or $.02 per share, and net income for the full
year of 1998 was $63.8 million, or $1.14 per share.

     Excluding the effect of the 1998 inventory write-down, results for the
fourth quarter of 1999 increased from fourth quarter 1998 levels due to higher
throughput volumes combined with an improvement in product margins, reductions
in cash operating costs, and reduced LIFO inventories. Partially offsetting
these increases in fourth quarter income were lower discounts for the Company's
crude oil feedstocks. Full year 1999 results were well below 1998 levels, before
the effects of the 1998 inventory write-downs, due to historically weak refining
industry fundamentals during the first half of 1999, the effect of significant
downtime at the Company's Corpus Christi refinery in early 1999 due to a major
maintenance turnaround and expansion of the heavy oil cracker and related units,
and increased interest expense. Partially offsetting these decreases in full
year income were improvements in industry conditions in the second half of 1999,
a significant reduction in cash operating costs (excluding the effect of the
Paulsboro Refinery) resulting from the Company's comprehensive cost reduction
efforts, and benefits to income related to reductions in LIFO inventories during
the first and fourth quarters of 1999.

OPERATING REVENUES

     Operating revenues increased $2.4 billion, or 44%, to $8.0 billion during
1999 compared to 1998 due to a $4.14, or 24%, increase in the average sales
price per barrel and a 16% increase in average daily sales volumes. The increase
in sales volumes was due primarily to the September 1998 acquisition of the
Paulsboro Refinery, while the increase in sales prices was due primarily to
higher crude oil prices attributable to OPEC production cuts announced in March
1999 and lower refined product inventories in the second half of the year.

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)

     Operating income increased $120.3 million, from a $51.2 million operating
loss in 1998 to operating income of $69.1 million in 1999, due in large part to
the 1998 inventory write-downs of $170.9 million noted above. Excluding the
effect of these write-downs, operating income decreased $50.6 million, or 42%,
during 1999 compared to 1998. This decrease was due primarily to an approximate
$98 million increase in operating costs attributable to a full year of
operations in 1999 for the Paulsboro Refinery, and an approximate $9 million
increase in depreciation expense and amortization of deferred turnaround and
catalyst costs for all refineries exclusive of the Paulsboro Refinery. Partially
offsetting these decreases was an approximate $43 million reduction in cash
operating costs for all refineries exclusive of the Paulsboro Refinery,
primarily due to lower maintenance expense, energy savings and improved energy
efficiencies, and reduced catalyst and chemical costs, all resulting from the
Company's cost savings initiatives implemented in early 1999. Also partially
offsetting the above-noted decreases in operating income was an increase in
total throughput margins of approximately $14 million.

     Total throughput margins (operating revenues less cost of sales) increased
in 1999 compared to 1998 due primarily to (i) the contribution from the
Paulsboro Refinery resulting from a full year of operations in 1999, (ii)
benefits from higher sales volumes (excluding higher volumes resulting from the
full-year effect of Paulsboro Refinery operations), including benefits resulting
from the liquidation of LIFO inventories in the first and fourth quarters of
1999 of $10.5 million and $9.3 million, respectively, and (iii) benefits from
trading activities of approximately $17 million in 1999 compared to $1 million
in 1998. The positive effect on throughput margins resulting from these factors
was offset to a large extent by extremely depressed refining industry
fundamentals in the first half of 1999. Distillate and gasoline margins were
significantly below 1998



levels during this period (average distillate margins were negative in the first
half of 1999) as above-average refined product inventory levels resulted in
depressed refined product prices, while crude oil prices increased due to the
OPEC production cuts announced in March 1999. Furthermore, petrochemical margins
were lower during the first half of 1999 resulting from depressed demand for
petrochemical feedstocks due to the Asian economic crisis. Although industry
conditions improved in the second half of 1999 as refined product inventories
declined due to both an increase in demand and reduced refinery utilization
rates, increasingly higher crude oil prices resulting from a continuation of
reduced OPEC production limited the improvement in product margins during this
period. Total throughput margins were also negatively affected in 1999 compared
to 1998 by a decrease in crude oil feedstock discounts relative to WTI and
reduced income from hedging activities under the Company's price risk management
program. In 1999, the Company's hedging activities resulted in a reduction of
total throughput margins of approximately $10 million compared to a benefit of
approximately $17 million in 1998. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk, Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements under "Price Risk Management Activities," and Note 7 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the
Company's hedging and trading activities.

OTHER INCOME

     Other income, net, increased by $5.9 million to $6.5 million during 1999
compared to 1998 due primarily to improved results from the Company's 20% equity
interest in the Javelina off-gas processing plant in Corpus Christi (see Note 1
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under "Deferred Charges and Other
Assets") attributable primarily to higher ethylene and other product prices,
partially offset by higher natural gas feedstock costs.

NET INTEREST AND DEBT EXPENSE

     Net interest and debt expense increased $22.9 million, or 71%, to $55.4
million during 1999 compared to 1998 primarily due to the full-year effect of
higher borrowings resulting from the acquisition of the Paulsboro Refinery in
September 1998, and to a lesser extent, to an increase in average interest
rates.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT)

     Income taxes increased from a $35.8 million benefit in 1998 to a $5.9
million expense in 1999 due primarily to the significant increase in pre-tax
income and, to a lesser extent, to the recognition in 1998 of $5.8 million
related to a research and experimentation tax credit. See Note 12 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



  1998 Compared to 1997

                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



- ---------------

(1) Includes the operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17,
    1998.

(2) Includes the operations of the Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs
    refineries beginning May 1, 1997.

(3) Includes a $111.1 million, or $1.98 per share, effect resulting from the
    $170.9 million pre-tax write-down of inventories to market value.

(4) Reflects the results of Old Valero's natural gas related services business
    for periods prior to the July 31, 1997 Restructuring.

(5) Excludes the $170.9 million pre-tax write-down of inventories to market
    value.

(6) Interest incurred for 1997 includes $18,164 of interest on corporate debt
    that was allocated to continuing operations (see Note 4 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements).



                              OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS



               AVERAGE MARKET REFERENCE PRICES AND DIFFERENTIALS
                     (U.S. GULF COAST) (DOLLARS PER BARREL)



- ---------------

(1) Includes the operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17,
    1998.

(2) Includes the operations of the Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs
    refineries beginning May 1, 1997.

(3) Includes 46 MBPD related to the Paulsboro Refinery.

(4) Includes 238 MBPD related to the Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs
    refineries.

(5) Excludes an $.81 per barrel reduction resulting from the $170.9 million
    pre-tax write-down of inventories to market value.

(6) Charges and yields have been restated from amounts reported in the 1998 Form
    10-K to conform to feedstock and product classifications used in 1999.

(7) Excludes $.25 to $.50 per barrel for other delivery related costs into the
    Company's refineries.


GENERAL

     The Company reported a net loss of $47.3 million, or $.84 per share, for
the year ended December 31, 1998 compared to income from continuing operations
of $111.8 million, or $2.03 per share, for the year ended December 31, 1997. For
the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company reported a net loss of $85.7 million, or
$1.53 per share, compared to net income of $12.4 million, or $.22 per share, for
the fourth quarter of 1997. The fourth quarter 1998 results were reduced by a
$133.2 million non-cash write-down in the carrying amount of the Company's
refinery inventories resulting from a significant decline in feedstock and
refined product prices during the quarter. Coupled with a $37.7 million non-cash
inventory write-down in the first quarter of 1998, full-year 1998 results were
reduced by non-cash inventory write-downs totaling $170.9 million.

     Excluding the effects of the inventory write-downs, fourth quarter 1998 net
income ($.9 million, or $.02 per share), and total year 1998 net income ($63.8
million, or $1.14 per share) were still well below 1997 levels due to extremely
weak refining industry fundamentals in the latter half of 1998. Partially
offsetting the effects of such depressed industry conditions were full-year
contributions in 1998 from the operations related to the Texas City, Houston and
Krotz Springs refineries acquired on May 1, 1997 and the contribution from the
Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17, 1998. Results from discontinued
operations in 1997 were a loss of $15.7 million, or $.29 per share, for the
seven months prior to the July 31, 1997 Restructuring. In determining earnings
per share for the year ended December 31, 1997, dividends on Old Valero's
preferred stock were deducted from income from discontinued operations as such
preferred stock was issued in connection with Old Valero's natural gas related
services business.

OPERATING REVENUES

     Operating revenues decreased $216.9 million, or 4%, to $5.5 billion during
1998 compared to 1997 due to a 32% decrease in the average sales price per
barrel partially offset by a 42% increase in average daily sales volumes. The
significant decrease in sales prices was attributable to an oversupply of crude
oil due to lower worldwide energy demand, particularly in Asia. These excess
crude oil supplies, combined with high refinery utilization rates and below
average demand for heating oil due to mild winter weather, resulted in a
build-up of refined product inventories, particularly distillates, and severely
depressed refined product prices. The increase in sales volumes was due
primarily to the acquisitions of the Texas City, Houston, Krotz Springs and
Paulsboro refineries, and an increase in related marketing activities.

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)

     Operating income decreased $262.2 million during 1998 compared to 1997 due
in large part to the $170.9 million in inventory write-downs noted above.
Excluding the effect of the inventory write-downs, operating income decreased
$91.3 million, or 43%, to $119.7 million during 1998 compared to 1997. This
decrease was due to an approximate $158 million increase in operating costs and
higher selling and administrative expenses of approximately $16 million (both
including related depreciation expense), partially offset by an approximate $83
million increase in total throughput margins.

     Total throughput margins increased due primarily to four additional months
of operations in 1998 versus 1997 related to the Texas City, Houston and Krotz
Springs refineries, and the inclusion of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning with
its acquisition. Although total throughput margins increased, the average
throughput margin per barrel declined $.82, or 19%, due in large part to the
fact that the Texas City, Houston, Krotz Springs and Paulsboro refineries
normally realize a lower per-barrel margin (but also lower per-barrel operating
costs) than that realized by the Corpus Christi Refinery. Also contributing to
an increase in total throughput margins was a significant improvement in
feedstock discounts relative to WTI due to improved sweet and sour crude
differentials and enhanced feedstock processing flexibility, particularly at the
Corpus Christi Refinery, partially offset by lower discounts on resid. However,
this feedstock benefit was more than offset by (i) lower gasoline and distillate
margins resulting primarily from the factors noted above under "Operating
Revenues," and (ii) significantly lower petrochemical margins and other factors
as discussed below. The net negative effect on throughput margins resulting from
the changes in gasoline and distillate margins and feedstock discounts was
somewhat offset by a benefit from hedging activities related to such



products and feedstocks under the Company's price risk management program. In
1998, the Company's hedging activities resulted in a benefit to total throughput
margins of approximately $17 million, while in 1997, the effect of hedging
activities was slightly negative. The decline in petrochemical margins noted
above which substantially reduced total throughput margins resulted from
depressed demand for petrochemical feedstocks due to the Asian economic crisis.

     With regard to operating costs, approximately $38 million ($33 million cash
cost and $5 million depreciation and amortization), or 24%, of the total
operating cost increase was attributable to the Paulsboro Refinery acquired in
September 1998, while $92 million, or 58%, of the increase was attributable to
the four additional months of operations during the 1998 period for the Texas
City, Houston and Krotz Springs refineries. The remainder of the increase in
operating costs was attributable to an increase in amortization of deferred
turnaround and catalyst costs for the Texas City, Houston and Corpus Christi
refineries resulting from various turnarounds and catalyst change-outs, an
increase in cash costs for injected catalyst at those same refineries resulting
from the use of lower-cost/reduced-quality feedstocks, higher catalyst costs at
the Corpus Christi Refinery resulting primarily from shorter than expected
catalyst life, and higher salary costs. Selling and administrative expenses
increased due primarily to the three and one-half months of operations for the
Paulsboro Refinery and to the four additional months of operations for the Texas
City, Houston and Krotz Springs refineries during 1998.

OTHER INCOME

     Other income, net, decreased by $6.4 million to $.6 million during 1998
compared to 1997 due primarily to lower results from the Company's 20% equity
interest in the Javelina off-gas processing plant due primarily to lower
petrochemical and other product prices, partially offset by lower natural gas
feedstock costs.

NET INTEREST AND DEBT EXPENSE

     Net interest and debt expense decreased $10 million, or 23%, to $32.5
million during 1998 compared to 1997 due primarily to the inclusion in the 1997
period of allocated interest expense related to corporate debt that was
subsequently assumed by PG&E in connection with the Restructuring, and to a
reduction in average interest rates. The decrease in net interest and debt
expense resulting from these factors was partially offset by an increase in bank
borrowings due primarily to the acquisition of the Paulsboro Refinery.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT)

     Income taxes decreased from a $63.8 million expense in 1997 to a $35.8
million benefit in 1998 due primarily to the significant decrease in pre-tax
results from continuing operations and, to a lesser extent, to the recognition
in 1998 of $5.8 million related to a research and experimentation tax credit.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     The loss from discontinued operations in 1997 of $15.7 million (net of an
income tax benefit of $8.9 million), or $.29 per share, reflected the net loss
of Old Valero's natural gas related services business for the seven months ended
July 31, 1997, prior to the Restructuring. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

OUTLOOK

     During the last half of 1998 and throughout most of 1999, the Company
operated in an environment characterized by very weak refining industry
fundamentals. These weak industry fundamentals caused a significant increase in
refined product inventories and put extreme downward pressure on refined product
prices. OPEC's decision in March 1999 to curtail crude oil production resulted
in a reduced supply of the heavier crude oils which are the Company's primary
feedstocks, thus resulting in higher feedstock costs and lower discounts. These
conditions combined to create an exceptionally difficult period for refiners,
including the Company.



     However, beginning in late 1999, the weak refining industry fundamentals
that had prevailed during the latter half of 1998 and most of 1999 finally began
to show signs of improvement. At times during the last several months of 1999
and into 2000, crude oil and refined product inventories fell dramatically and
are currently at historically low levels. In early February, inventories, when
compared to the corresponding period in prior years, were at their lowest levels
in 15 years for gasoline while distillate inventories were as low as they have
been since 1990. The recent decline in finished product inventory levels was
attributable to the following factors:

     - Lower crude oil supplies resulting primarily from OPEC's decision in
       March 1999 to curtail production.

     - Reduced refinery utilization rates in the U.S., to rates below 90%
       compared to rates that were above 95% in early 1999.

     - Colder weather in the Northeastern U.S. in early 2000.

     - Strong economic growth in the U.S. and abroad.

     Primarily as a result of these substantial declines in inventory levels,
refining margins have improved significantly in the early part of 2000. In
January 2000, the U.S. Gulf Coast margins on gasoline and heating oil averaged
$1.87 per barrel and $2.94 per barrel, respectively, an increase of $.70 per
barrel for gasoline and $1.93 per barrel for heating oil compared to December
1999. This also represents a substantial increase from comparable margins in
January 1999 of $1.29 per barrel for gasoline and $.53 per barrel for heating
oil.

     Valero anticipates that margins for 2000 will be favorable as a result of
strong refined product demand combined with limited growth in the supply of
refined products. This expectation is based on several factors, including the
following:

     - A projected growth in worldwide crude oil demand for 2000 of about 2.2
       million barrels per day, up from 1 million barrels per day growth in
       1999, which should result in improved feedstock discounts as the
       increased production required to meet the demand growth will most likely
       result in more production of heavy crude oils.

     - Inventories of refined products are at historically low levels. Because
       demand for refined products is expected to remain strong, additional
       supplies will be necessary to compensate for the low refined product
       inventory levels. Accordingly, increased crude supplies will be needed
       just to maintain refined product inventories at current levels.

     - A healthy U.S. economy resulting in a projected 1.5% growth in gasoline
       demand as well as increased demand for low-sulfur diesel and jet fuel.

     - Stronger demand for light products in Europe and Asia, resulting in
       reduced available volumes for imports.

     - A reduction in refinery light product yields resulting from more
       stringent fuel specifications in the U.S. and Europe that became
       effective at the beginning of 2000.

     - Slowdowns in additions to industry refining capacity due to the poor
       margin conditions in 1998 and 1999.

     - Petrochemical demand is also growing once again, which means that
       petrochemicals that were being blended into gasoline are now being sold
       as individual products in the petrochemical market. Valero believes that
       this has already reduced gasoline production by over 100,000 barrels per
       day.

     - These supply reductions, combined with strong demand growth, should
       further draw down inventories and support higher refined product margins.

     Beyond 2000, Valero anticipates, based on projected supply and demand
fundamentals, that refining margins should show a steady but moderate
improvement. Refined product supply and demand balances are



expected to tighten in the U.S., Europe and Asia as the combined effect of
increasing demand, more stringent gasoline specifications, and refinery closures
resulting from both pipeline competition and increased capital requirements to
meet the increasingly stringent fuel specifications should more than offset the
effect of refinery capacity additions, conversion unit expansions, and certain
new refineries that are being put into service in Asia. Crude oil demand is
expected to continue to grow longer term. If, as anticipated, OPEC production
increases in response to the increased demand for crude oil, then the spread
between light and heavy crudes should increase as a higher percentage of crude
oil production will be heavy rather than lighter crudes. This should improve the
discount realized by Valero on the purchase of its heavier feedstocks.

     Demand, both domestically and worldwide, for clean-burning fuels such as
RFG is expected to continue to increase as a result of the worldwide movement to
reduce lead and certain other pollutants and contaminants in gasoline. This
increasing demand for clean-burning fuels should sustain increased demand for
oxygenates such as MTBE. However, certain initiatives have been passed in
California which would ban the use of MTBE as a gasoline component by 2003. If
MTBE were to be restricted or banned throughout the U.S., Valero believes that
its MTBE-producing facilities could be modified to produce other gasoline
blendstocks or other petrochemicals for a minimal capital investment. Since the
volume of alternative products that could be produced would be less than the
current production of MTBE and the price of such alternative products is
currently lower than the price of MTBE, the Company's results of operations
could potentially be adversely affected. The Company anticipates, however, that
if MTBE were to be restricted or banned, the resulting industry-wide shortage in
octane-enhancing components would cause a significant change in the economics
related to the Company's various alternative products, and as a result, such an
action would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company.

     Valero expects that various industry consolidations through mergers and
acquisitions will continue, making for a more competitive business environment
while providing Valero with opportunities to expand its operations. As refining
margins merit, the Company expects to continue making capital improvements at
its refinery facilities to increase, among other things, throughput capacity,
conversion capability, operational efficiency and feedstock flexibility. The
majority of such capital improvements are anticipated to be performed during
scheduled maintenance turnarounds.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Net cash provided by operating activities increased $269.3 million to
$435.1 million during 1999 compared to 1998, primarily as a result of proactive
efforts by the Company to reduce working capital levels. During 1999, both
accounts receivable and accounts payable increased significantly as crude oil,
gasoline, and heating oil prices more than doubled from December 31, 1998 to
December 31, 1999. However, concerted efforts by the Company to collect accounts
receivable, and the sale of receivables in September 1999 as described in Note 2
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, helped reduce the increase in
receivables resulting from higher commodity prices. In addition, a significant
reduction in inventory levels helped to offset the effect of higher commodity
prices on the carrying amount of the Company's inventories. All of these factors
combined to reduce cash utilized for working capital purposes by $296.3 million
during 1999. During 1998, cash utilized for working capital purposes increased
$46.2 million, as a substantial decrease in accounts payable was offset to a
large extent by a decrease in accounts receivable, both of which resulted from a
significant decrease in commodity prices from December 31, 1997 to December 31,
1998. During 1999, cash provided by (i) operating activities, including the sale
of accounts receivable discussed above, (ii) proceeds from the issuance of
7 3/8% notes (approximately $297.5 million) and Series 1999 tax-exempt Waste
Disposal Revenue Bonds ($25 million), and (iii) issuances of common stock
related to the Company's benefit plans were utilized to reduce bank borrowings,
redeem $25 million of Series 1998 taxable Waste Disposal Revenue Bonds, fund
capital expenditures and deferred turnaround and catalyst costs, pay common
stock dividends, purchase treasury stock and add to existing cash balances.

     The Company currently maintains an unsecured $835 million revolving bank
credit and letter of credit facility that matures in November 2002 and is
available for general corporate purposes including working capital needs and
letters of credit. Borrowings under this facility bear interest at either LIBOR
plus a margin, a base rate or a money market rate. The Company is also charged
various fees and expenses in connection with


this facility, including a facility fee and various letter of credit fees. The
interest rate and fees under this credit facility are subject to adjustment
based upon the credit ratings assigned to the Company's long-term debt. The
credit facility includes certain restrictive covenants including a coverage
ratio, a capitalization ratio, and a minimum net worth test. As of December 31,
1999, outstanding borrowings under this facility totaled $140 million, while
letters of credit outstanding were approximately $25 million. The Company also
currently has various uncommitted short-term bank credit facilities under which
amounts up to $240 million may be borrowed, along with various uncommitted bank
letter of credit facilities totaling $285 million. As of December 31, 1999, no
borrowings were outstanding under the short-term bank credit facilities, and
letters of credit totaling approximately $88 million were outstanding under the
uncommitted letter of credit facilities. See Notes 5 and 6 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     During 1999, the Company reduced its exposure to increases in interest
rates and increased its financial flexibility by (i) issuing $300 million of
seven-year 7 3/8% notes under its $600 million universal shelf registration
statement and using the net proceeds to reduce variable rate bank borrowings and
(ii) refinancing $25 million of its taxable, variable-rate industrial revenue
bonds with tax-exempt 5.7% fixed-rate bonds. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company's debt to capitalization ratio was
42%, a decrease from 47.5% as of December 31, 1998.

     As described in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Salomon is entitled to receive payments from the Company in any of the ten years
following the May 1997 acquisition of Basis and Mobil is entitled to receive
payments in any of the five years following the September 1998 acquisition of
the Paulsboro Refinery, if certain average refining margins during any of these
years exceed a specified level. Due to depressed refining margins during the
years ended May 1999 and September 1999, no earn-out payments were due to
Salomon or Mobil during 1999. Based on actual margins since May and September of
1999, and estimated margin levels through May and September of 2000, the Company
currently expects that no earn-out payments will be due to Salomon or Mobil
during 2000.

     During 1999, the Company expended approximately $173 million for capital
investments, including capital expenditures of $100 million and deferred
turnaround and catalyst costs of $73 million. Capital expenditures included
approximately $12 million for computer system projects and approximately $7
million for projects related to environmental control and protection. The
deferred turnaround and catalyst costs related primarily to (i) a major
maintenance turnaround of the heavy oil cracker and related units at the Corpus
Christi refinery in the first quarter, (ii) a catalyst change for the Corpus
Christi hydrodesulfurization unit in the second quarter, (iii) a turnaround and
catalyst change of the Texas City residfiner also in the second quarter, and
(iv) a turnaround of the reformer at the Paulsboro Refinery in the fourth
quarter. For 2000, the Company currently expects to incur approximately $225
million for capital investments, including approximately $145 million for
capital expenditures and approximately $80 million for deferred turnaround and
catalyst costs. The capital expenditure estimate includes approximately $15
million for computer system projects and approximately $7 million for projects
related to environmental control and protection.

     The Company's Board of Directors approved in the third quarter of 1998 a
common stock repurchase program allowing repurchase of up to $100 million of its
common stock. Through December 31, 1998, the Company had repurchased common
shares at a cost of approximately $15 million, and during the fourth quarter of
1999 and early in 2000, the Company repurchased additional shares of its common
stock at a cost of approximately $13 million and $7 million, respectively. The
shares repurchased will be used primarily to meet requirements under the
Company's employee benefit plans.

     Dividends on the Company's common stock are considered quarterly by the
Company's Board of Directors, are determined by the Board on the basis of
earnings and cash flows, and may be paid only when approved by the Board. The
Company has declared a dividend of $.08 per common share for each quarter since
the Restructuring.

     The Company believes it has sufficient funds from operations, and to the
extent necessary, from the public and private capital markets and bank markets,
to fund its ongoing operating requirements. The



Company expects that, to the extent necessary, it can raise additional funds
from time to time through equity or debt financings. See Note 17 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company's financing
plans in connection with its proposed acquisition of certain California refining
and marketing assets from ExxonMobil Corporation.

     The Company's refining and marketing operations have a concentration of
customers in the oil refining industry and petroleum products markets. These
concentrations of customers may impact the Company's overall exposure to credit
risk, either positively or negatively, in that these customers may be similarly
affected by changes in economic or other conditions. However, the Company
believes that its portfolio of accounts receivable is sufficiently diversified
to the extent necessary to minimize potential credit risk. Historically, the
Company has not had any significant problems collecting its accounts receivable.
The Company's accounts receivable are not collateralized. See Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding a program entered
into by the Company in September 1999 to sell up to $100 million of an undivided
percentage ownership interest in a designated pool of accounts receivable.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     As discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
various new financial accounting pronouncements have been issued by the AICPA
and FASB which either became effective for the Company's financial statements
beginning in 1999 or become effective in 2001. Except for SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," for which the
impact has not yet been determined, the adoption of these pronouncements has not
had a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

YEAR 2000 UPDATE

BACKGROUND AND CURRENT STATUS

     The transition to January 1, 2000 posed potential problems for almost all
users of information technology ("IT"). These potential problems resulted from
the fact that many computer programs created in the past were programmed to
identify calendar dates with only the last two digits of the year. As a result,
these programs were unable to distinguish between the year 1900 and the year
2000, potentially resulting in program miscalculations, malfunctions or
failures. In addition to its potential effect on computer systems, the century
date change may also have resulted in malfunctions or failures of non-IT
equipment which contain embedded systems with date-sensitive functions. These
potential consequences were generally referred to as the "Year 2000" problem.

     In order to address the Year 2000 problem with respect to its IT systems
and non-IT embedded systems, the Company developed a comprehensive compliance
plan with respect to those systems and services that were deemed to be critical
to the Company's operations and safety of its employees. As a result of the
Company's extensive plans and preparations, no material Year 2000 problems
occurred and the transition to January 1, 2000 has had no adverse effect on the
Company, its business, or its financial condition or results of operations. The
Company will continue to monitor its internal systems and external service
providers for potential problems that may arise in the near future.

     The Company's Year 2000 compliance plan was completed primarily by Company
personnel. However, in certain cases, outside contractors or consultants were
engaged to assist in the Company's Year 2000 efforts. No significant IT projects
were delayed due to the implementation of this plan. Total external costs
required to complete the Company's Year 2000 compliance plan were approximately
$2 million. The Company did not separately track internal costs, principally
consisting of payroll and related costs for its information systems group and
certain other employees, incurred in connection with its Year 2000 compliance
efforts. The above amount does not include costs associated with certain
client/server based systems which were substantially implemented by the end of
1998 for the purpose of improving business processes, reducing costs,
integrating and improving access to business information, and providing
flexibility for ongoing business changes.



YEAR 2000 INFORMATION AND READINESS DISCLOSURE ACT

     To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, the above information is
designated as a "Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure" under the "Year 2000
Information and Readiness Disclosure Act" which was signed into law on October
19, 1998.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

     As discussed in Item 1. Business -- Factors Affecting Operating Results,
the Company is exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil
and refined product prices, as well as volatility in the price of natural gas
used in the Company's refining operations. In order to reduce the risks of these
price fluctuations, the Company uses derivative commodity instruments to hedge
certain refinery feedstock and refined product inventories. The Company also
uses derivative commodity instruments to hedge the price risk of anticipated
transactions such as anticipated feedstock, product and natural gas purchases,
product sales and refining operating margins. In addition, the Company uses
derivative commodity instruments for trading purposes using its fundamental and
technical analysis of market conditions to earn additional revenues.

     The types of instruments used in the Company's hedging and trading
activities described above include price swaps, options, and futures contracts
with third parties. The Company's positions in derivative commodity instruments
are monitored and managed on a daily basis by a risk control group to ensure
compliance with the Company's stated risk management policy which has been
approved by the Company's Board of Directors. See Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements under "Price Risk Management Activities" for a
discussion of the Company's accounting policies related to its derivative
commodity instrument transactions.

     In the tables below detailing the Company's open derivative commodity
instruments as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the total gain or (loss) as of
either date on price swaps is the net of the fixed price payor and receiver fair
value amounts, while the total gain or (loss) on options and futures is (i) the
excess of the fair value amount over the contract amount for fixed price payor
positions, combined with (ii) the excess of the contract amount over the fair
value amount for fixed price receiver positions. As discussed in Note 1 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements under Price Risk Management Activities,
gains and losses on hedging activities are deferred and recognized when the
hedged transaction occurs while gains and losses on trading activities are
recognized currently.

HEDGING ACTIVITIES

     The Company uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties to hedge certain refinery
feedstock and refined product inventories in order to reduce the impact of
adverse price changes on these inventories before the conversion of the
feedstock to finished products and ultimate sale. Swaps and futures contracts
held to hedge refining inventories at the end of 1999 and 1998 had remaining
terms of less than one year. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, 19.5% and 5%,
respectively, of the Company's refining inventory position was hedged. As of
December 31, 1999, $2.1 million of deferred hedge losses were included as an
increase in refining inventories, while no deferred hedge losses or gains were
included in refining inventories as of December 31, 1998.



     The following table provides information about the Company's derivative
commodity instruments held to hedge refining inventories as of December 31, 1999
(which mature in 2000) and December 31, 1998 (which matured in 1999)(dollars in
thousands, except amounts per barrel, or bbl). Volumes shown for swaps represent
notional volumes which are used to calculate amounts due under the agreements.



     The Company also uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties to hedge the price risk of
anticipated transactions. In 1999 and 1998, price swaps and futures were used to
hedge anticipated feedstock and product purchases, product sales and refining
operating margins by locking in purchase or sales prices or components of the
margins, including feedstock discounts, conventional gasoline and heating oil
crack spreads and premium product differentials. Price swaps were also used in
1999 and 1998 to hedge anticipated purchases of natural gas used in the
Company's refining operations. The majority of contracts hedging anticipated
transactions mature in 2000 with certain contracts extending through 2002. There
were no significant explicit deferrals of hedging gains or losses related to
these anticipated transactions as of the end of 1999 or 1998.

     The following table provides information about the Company's derivative
commodity instruments held to hedge anticipated feedstock, product and natural
gas purchases, product sales and refining margins as of December 31, 1999 (which
mature in 2000) and December 31, 1998 (which matured in 1999)(dollars in
thousands, except amounts per barrel or per million British thermal units, or
MMBtus). Volumes shown for swaps represent notional volumes which are used to
calculate amounts due under the agreements.





     In addition to the above, as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company was
the fixed price payor under certain swap contracts held to hedge anticipated
purchases of refinery feedstocks and refined products that mature in 2002, have
notional volumes totaling approximately 7.5 million barrels, and have a weighted
average pay price of $20.11 per barrel. As of December 31, 1999, these swaps had
a weighted average receive price of $18.02 per barrel and a net unrecognized
fair value of approximately $7.4 million. As of December 31, 1998, these swaps
had a weighted average receive price of $17.04 per barrel with no unrecognized
fair value.

TRADING ACTIVITIES

     The Company also uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties for trading purposes using its
fundamental and technical analysis of market conditions to earn additional
income. These contracts run for periods of up to 24 months. As a result,
contracts outstanding as of December 31, 1999 will mature in 2000 or 2001.

     The following table provides information about the Company's derivative
commodity instruments held or issued for trading purposes as of December 31,
1999 (which mature in 2000 or 2001) and December 31, 1998 (which matured in 1999
or 2000) (dollars in thousands, except amounts per barrel or per million British
thermal units). Volumes shown for swaps represent notional volumes which are
used to calculate amounts due under the agreements.



     The following table discloses the net gains (losses) from trading
activities and average fair values of contracts held or issued for trading
purposes for the periods ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 (dollars in
thousands):





INTEREST RATE RISK

     The Company's primary market risk exposure for changes in interest rates
relates to the Company's long-term debt obligations. The Company manages its
exposure to changing interest rates principally through the use of a combination
of fixed and floating rate debt (see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements) and currently does not use derivative financial instruments to
manage such risk. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources for a
discussion of various initiatives undertaken by the Company to reduce its
exposure to increases in interest rates and increase its financial flexibility.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Valero Energy Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Valero
Energy Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of income, common stock
and other stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Valero Energy Corporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

San Antonio, Texas
February 18, 2000



                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     As used in this report, the terms "Valero" and the "Company" may, depending
upon the context, refer to Valero Energy Corporation, one or more of its
consolidated subsidiaries, or all of them taken as a whole.

     The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero
Refining and Marketing Company as a wholly owned subsidiary of Valero Energy
Corporation, referred to as Old Valero. Old Valero was engaged in both the
refining and marketing business and the natural gas related services business.
On July 31, 1997, Old Valero spun off the Company to Old Valero's stockholders
by distributing to them all of the Company's common stock. Immediately after
this distribution, Old Valero, with its remaining natural gas related services
business, merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of PG&E Corporation. The
spin-off of the Company to Old Valero's stockholders and the merger of Old
Valero with PG&E are collectively referred to as the "Restructuring." Upon
completion of the Restructuring, the Company's name was changed from Valero
Refining and Marketing Company to Valero Energy Corporation.

     As a result of the Restructuring, the Company became a "successor
registrant" to Old Valero for financial reporting purposes under the federal
securities laws. Accordingly, for periods after the Restructuring, the
accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Valero
and its consolidated subsidiaries, while for periods before the Restructuring,
the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Old
Valero restated to reflect its natural gas related services business as
discontinued operations. All significant intercompany transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified
for comparative purposes.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenues generally are recorded when products have been delivered.

PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

     The Company uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties to hedge certain refinery
feedstock and refined product inventories in order to reduce the impact of
adverse price changes on these inventories before the conversion of the
feedstock to finished products and ultimate sale. Hedges of inventories are
accounted for under the deferral method with gains and losses included in the
carrying amounts of inventories and ultimately recognized in cost of sales as
those inventories are sold.

     The Company also uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties to hedge the price risk of
anticipated transactions. These instruments are used to hedge anticipated
feedstock, product and natural gas purchases, product sales, and refining
operating margins by locking in purchase or sales prices or components of
refining operating margins, including feedstock discounts, crack spreads and
premium product differentials. Hedges of anticipated transactions are also
accounted for under the deferral method with gains and losses on these
transactions recognized when the hedged transaction occurs, or when the amount
of the hedged transaction, combined with the hedging instrument, is not deemed
to be recoverable.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Derivative commodity contracts are designated at inception as a hedge when
there is a direct relationship to the price risk associated with the Company's
inventories, future purchases and sales of commodities used in the Company's
operations, or components of the Company's refining operating margins. If this
direct relationship ceases to exist, the related contract is designated "for
trading purposes" and accounted for as described below.

     Gains and losses on early terminations of financial instrument contracts
designated as hedges are deferred and included in cost of sales in the
measurement of the hedged transaction. When an anticipated transaction being
hedged is no longer likely to occur, the related derivative contract is
accounted for similar to a contract entered into for trading purposes.

     The Company also uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties for trading purposes using its
fundamental and technical analysis of market conditions to earn additional
income. Contracts entered into for trading purposes are accounted for under the
fair value method. Changes in the fair value of these contracts are recognized
as gains or losses in cost of sales currently and are recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets in "Prepaid expenses and other" and "Accounts
payable" at fair value at the reporting date. The Company determines the fair
value of its exchange-traded contracts based on the settlement prices for open
contracts, which are established by the exchange on which the instruments are
traded. The fair value of the Company's over-the-counter contracts is determined
based on market-related indexes or by obtaining quotes from brokers.

     The Company's derivative contracts and their related gains and losses are
reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of
Income as discussed above, depending on whether they are designated as a hedge
or for trading purposes. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash
transactions related to derivative contracts are included in "Changes in current
assets and current liabilities."

CASH AND TEMPORARY CASH INVESTMENTS

     The Company's temporary cash investments are highly liquid, low-risk debt
instruments which have a maturity of three months or less when acquired.

INVENTORIES

     Refinery feedstocks and refined products and blendstocks are carried at the
lower of cost or market, with the cost of feedstocks purchased for processing
and produced products determined primarily under the last-in, first-out ("LIFO")
method of inventory pricing, and the cost of feedstocks and products purchased
for resale determined under the weighted average cost method. During the first
quarter of 1999, LIFO inventory quantities were reduced causing prior year LIFO
costs, which were lower than current year replacement costs, to be charged to
cost of sales. This LIFO liquidation resulted in a decrease in cost of sales of
$10.5 million and an increase in net income of $6.8 million, or $.12 per share.
An additional LIFO liquidation in the fourth quarter of 1999 resulted in a
decrease in cost of sales of $9.3 million and an increase in net income of $6.1
million, or $.11 per share. At December 31, 1999, the replacement cost of the
Company's LIFO inventories exceeded their LIFO carrying values by approximately
$146 million. During 1998, the Company incurred pre-tax inventory write-downs
totaling $170.9 million due to a significant decline in feedstock and


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

refined product prices. Materials and supplies are carried principally at
weighted average cost not in excess of market. Inventories as of December 31,
1999 and 1998 were as follows (in thousands):



     Refinery feedstock and refined product and blendstock inventory volumes
totaled 15.2 million barrels and 20.5 million barrels as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively. See Note 7 for information concerning the Company's
hedging activities related to its refinery feedstock and refined product
inventories.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property additions and betterments include capitalized interest and
acquisition costs allocable to construction and property purchases.

     The costs of minor property units (or components of property units), net of
salvage, retired or abandoned are charged or credited to accumulated
depreciation under the composite method of depreciation. Gains or losses on
sales or other dispositions of major units of property are credited or charged
to income.

     Major classes of property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 1999 and
1998 were as follows (in thousands):



     Provision for depreciation of property, plant and equipment is made
primarily on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
depreciable facilities. A summary of the principal rates used in computing the
annual provision for depreciation, primarily utilizing the composite method and
including estimated salvage values, is as follows:




                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

DEFERRED CHARGES AND OTHER ASSETS

  Refinery Turnaround Costs

     Refinery turnaround costs are deferred when incurred and amortized on a
straight-line basis over that period of time estimated to lapse until the next
turnaround occurs. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the balance of deferred
turnaround costs was $49.2 million and $27.4 million, respectively.

  Fixed-Bed Catalyst Costs

     Fixed-bed catalyst costs are deferred when incurred and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of that catalyst, normally
one to three years. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the balance of deferred
catalyst costs was $16.8 million and $13.1 million, respectively.

  Technological Royalties and Licenses

     Technological royalties and licenses are deferred when incurred and
amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each
particular royalty or license.

  Other Deferred Charges and Other Assets

     Other deferred charges and other assets include the Company's 20% interest
in Javelina Company, a general partnership that owns a refinery off-gas
processing plant in Corpus Christi, Texas. The Company accounts for its interest
in Javelina on the equity method of accounting. Also included in other deferred
charges and other assets are prefunded benefit costs, debt issuance costs and
certain other costs.

ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows (in
thousands):



FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments approximate
fair value, except for certain long-term debt and financial instruments used in
price risk management activities. See Notes 6 and 7.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     The Company accounts for its employee stock compensation plans using the
"intrinsic value" method of accounting set forth in Accounting Principles Board
("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related
interpretations. Accordingly, compensation cost for stock options is measured as
the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the Company's common stock at
the date of the grant over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation," encourages, but does not require companies to measure
and recognize in their financial statements a compensation cost for stock-based
employee compensation plans based on the "fair value" method of accounting set
forth in the statement. See Note 13 for the pro


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

forma effects on net income and earnings per share had compensation cost for the
Company's stock-based compensation plans been determined consistent with SFAS
No. 123.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic and diluted earnings per share are presented on the face of the
accompanying income statements in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
128, "Earnings per Share," which became effective for the Company's financial
statements beginning with the year ended December 31, 1997. Basic earnings per
share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted
earnings per share reflects the potential dilution of the Company's outstanding
stock options and performance awards granted to employees in connection with the
Company's stock compensation plans (see Note 13) for all periods presented. For
1997, diluted earnings per share also reflected the potential dilution of Old
Valero's convertible preferred stock (see Note 9). In determining basic earnings
per share for the year ended December 31, 1997, dividends on Old Valero's
convertible preferred stock were deducted from income from discontinued
operations as this preferred stock was issued in connection with Old Valero's
natural gas related services business. The weighted average number of common
shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
56,086,381, 56,077,671 and 51,662,449, respectively.

     A reconciliation of the basic and diluted per-share computations for income
(loss) from continuing operations is as follows (dollars and shares in
thousands, except per share amounts):



     Because the Company reported a net loss from continuing operations for the
year ended December 31, 1998, various stock options and performance awards which
were granted to employees in connection with the Company's stock compensation
plans and were outstanding during 1998 were not included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been antidilutive. At
December 31, 1998, options to purchase approximately 5.5 million common shares
and performance awards totaling approximately 100,000 shares were outstanding.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

     In order to determine net cash provided by continuing operations, income
(loss) from continuing operations has been adjusted by, among other things,
changes in current assets and current liabilities. The changes in the Company's
current assets and current liabilities are shown in the following table as an
(increase)/decrease in current assets and an increase/(decrease) in current
liabilities (in thousands). These amounts exclude (i) noncash write-downs of
inventories to market value in 1998 totaling $170.9 million and (ii) the current
assets and current liabilities of the Paulsboro Refinery and Basis Petroleum,
Inc. as of their acquisition dates in 1998 and 1997, respectively (see Note 3),
both of which are reflected separately in the Statements of Cash Flows. Also
excluded from the following table are changes in "Cash and temporary cash
investments," "Current deferred income tax assets," "Short-term debt" and
"Current maturities of long-term debt."



     Cash flows related to interest and income taxes, including amounts related
to discontinued operations for the seven months ended July 31, 1997, were as
follows (in thousands):



     Noncash investing and financing activities for 1999 and 1998 included
various adjustments to property, plant and equipment and certain current assets
and current liabilities resulting from the completion of independent appraisals
performed in connection with the September 1998 acquisition of the Paulsboro
Refinery and the May 1997 acquisition of Basis, and the allocation of the
respective purchase prices to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Noncash investing and financing activities for 1997 included the issuance of Old
Valero common stock to Salomon as partial consideration for the acquisition of
the stock of Basis, and an $18.3 million accrual as of December 31, 1997 related
to the Company's estimate of a contingent earn-out payment in 1998 in
conjunction with this acquisition. See Note 3. In addition, noncash investing
and financing activities for 1997 included various adjustments to debt and
equity, including the assumption of certain debt by PG&E that was previously
allocated to the Company, resulting from the Restructuring discussed above under
"Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation."

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 98-1, "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This SOP
provides guidance for determining when to capitalize or expense costs incurred
to develop or obtain internal-use software. This statement became effective for
the Company's financial


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

statements beginning January 1, 1999, with its requirements applied to costs
incurred on or after this date. The adoption of this SOP did not have a material
effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS
No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in a
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges
allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged
item in the income statement, and requires that a company must formally
document, designate, and assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive
hedge accounting. As issued, this statement was to become effective for the
Company's financial statements beginning January 1, 2000. However, in June 1999,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 137 which delayed for one year the effective date of
SFAS No. 133. As a result, SFAS No. 133 will become effective for the Company's
financial statements beginning January 1, 2001 and is not allowed to be applied
retroactively to financial statements of prior periods. At this effective date,
SFAS No. 133 must be applied to (i) all freestanding derivative instruments and
(ii) all embedded derivative instruments required by the statement to be
separated from their host contracts (or, at the Company's election, only those
derivatives embedded in hybrid instruments issued, acquired or substantively
modified on or after either January 1, 1998 or January 1, 1999). The Company is
currently evaluating the impact on its financial statements of adopting this
statement. Adoption of this statement could result in increased volatility in
the Company's earnings and other comprehensive income.

2. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

     In September 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with a financial
institution to sell up to $100 million of an undivided percentage ownership
interest in a designated pool of accounts receivable. As of December 31, 1999,
proceeds of $100 million had been received under this program and were used to
reduce indebtedness under the Company's bank credit facilities.

3. ACQUISITIONS

PAULSBORO REFINERY

     On September 16, 1998, the Company and Mobil Oil Corporation entered into
an asset sale and purchase agreement for the acquisition by the Company of
substantially all of the assets and the assumption of certain liabilities
related to Mobil's 155,000 barrel-per-day refinery in Paulsboro, New Jersey. The
purchase price was $228 million plus approximately $107 million representing the
value of inventories and certain other items acquired in the transaction and was
paid in cash from borrowings under the Company's bank credit facilities. The
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the
purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on fair values as determined by an independent appraisal. Under the
purchase method of accounting, the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Income include the results of operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning
September 17, 1998.

     As part of the asset sale and purchase agreement, Mobil is entitled to
receive payments in any of the five years following the acquisition if certain
average refining margins during any of these years exceed a specified level. Any
payments under this earn-out arrangement, which are determined in September of
each year beginning in 1999, are limited to $20 million in any year and $50
million in the aggregate. No earn-out amount was due for the year ended
September 16, 1999.

     In connection with the acquisition of the Paulsboro Refinery, Mobil agreed
to indemnify the Company for certain environmental matters and conditions
existing on or prior to the acquisition and the Company agreed to assume Mobil's
environmental liabilities, with certain limited exceptions (including
"superfund" liability


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

for off-site waste disposal). Mobil's indemnities and the periods of
indemnification, measured from the September 16, 1998 closing date, include (i)
third party environmental claims for a period of five years, (ii) governmental
fines and/or penalties for a period of five years, (iii) required remediation of
known environmental conditions for a period of five years, subject to a
cumulative deductible, (iv) required remediation of unknown environmental
conditions for a period of seven years, subject to a sharing arrangement with a
cap on the Company's obligation and subject to a cumulative deductible, and (v)
certain capital expenditures required by a governmental entity for a three year
period, to the extent required to cure a breach of certain representations of
Mobil concerning compliance with environmental laws, subject to a specified
deductible. The Company's assumed liabilities include remediation obligations to
the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. These remediation
obligations relate primarily to clean-up costs associated with groundwater
contamination, landfill closure and post-closure monitoring costs, and tank farm
spill prevention costs. As of December 31, 1999, the Company has recorded
approximately $20 million in "Accrued expenses" and "Deferred credits and other
liabilities" representing its best estimate of costs to be borne by the Company
related to these remediation obligations. The majority of these costs are
expected to be incurred in relatively level amounts over the next 19 years.

BASIS PETROLEUM, INC.

     Effective May 1, 1997, Old Valero acquired the outstanding common stock of
Basis Petroleum, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Salomon Inc. Prior to the
Restructuring, Old Valero transferred the stock of Basis to the Company
resulting in Basis being a part of the Company at the time of the Restructuring.
The primary assets acquired in the Basis acquisition included petroleum
refineries located in Texas at Texas City and Houston and in Louisiana at Krotz
Springs, and an extensive wholesale marketing business. The acquisition was
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the purchase price was
allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on fair values as
determined by an independent appraisal. Under the purchase method of accounting,
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income include the results of
operations related to the Texas City, Houston and Krotz Springs refineries
beginning May 1, 1997.

     The stock of Basis was acquired for approximately $470 million. This amount
included certain costs incurred in connection with the acquisition and was net
of $9.5 million received from Salomon in December 1997 representing a final
resolution between the parties relating to certain contingent environmental
obligations for which Salomon was responsible under the purchase agreement. The
purchase price was paid, in part, with 3,429,796 shares of Old Valero common
stock having a fair market value of $114 million, with the remainder paid in
cash from borrowings under Old Valero's bank credit facilities. As part of the
purchase agreement, Salomon is entitled to receive payments in any of the 10
years following the acquisition if certain average refining margins during any
of these years exceed a specified level. Any payments under this earn-out
arrangement, which are determined as of May 1 of each year beginning in 1998,
are limited to $35 million in any year and $200 million in the aggregate. The
earn-out amount for the year ended May 1, 1998 was $10.3 million, while no
earn-out amount was due for the year ended May 1, 1999.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     The following unaudited pro forma financial information of the Company for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 assumes that the acquisition of the
Paulsboro Refinery occurred at the beginning of 1998 and 1997 and that the
acquisition of Basis occurred at the beginning of 1997. This pro forma
information is not necessarily indicative of the results of future operations.
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts.)



4. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     Revenues of the discontinued natural gas related services business were
$1.7 billion for the seven months ended July 31, 1997. This amount is not
included in operating revenues as reported in the accompanying 1997 Consolidated
Statement of Income.

     Total interest expense for the discontinued natural gas related services
business was $32.7 million for the seven months ended July 31, 1997. This amount
includes interest specifically attributed to the natural gas related services
business, plus an allocated portion of interest on Old Valero's corporate debt
as Old Valero's historical practice was to utilize a centralized cash management
system and to incur certain indebtedness for its consolidated group at the
parent company level rather than at the operating subsidiary level.

5. SHORT-TERM DEBT

     The Company currently has various uncommitted short-term bank credit
facilities under which amounts up to $240 million may be borrowed. As of
December 31, 1999, there were no borrowings outstanding under these facilities.
These short-term bank credit facilities bear interest at each respective bank's
quoted money market rate, have no commitment or other fees or compensating
balance requirements and are unsecured and unrestricted as to use.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

6. LONG-TERM DEBT AND BANK CREDIT FACILITIES

     Long-term debt balances as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows
(in thousands):



     The Company currently maintains an unsecured $835 million revolving bank
credit and letter of credit facility that matures in November 2002 and is
available for general corporate purposes including working capital needs and
letters of credit. Borrowings under this facility bear interest at either LIBOR
plus a margin, a base rate or a money market rate. The Company is also charged
various fees and expenses in connection with this facility, including a facility
fee and various letter of credit fees. The interest rate and fees under this
credit facility are subject to adjustment based upon the credit ratings assigned
to the Company's long-term debt. The credit facility includes certain
restrictive covenants including a coverage ratio, a capitalization ratio, and a
minimum net worth test. As of December 31, 1999, outstanding borrowings under
this committed facility totaled $140 million, while letters of credit
outstanding were approximately $25 million. The Company also has various
uncommitted bank letter of credit facilities totaling $285 million,
approximately $88 million of which was outstanding as of December 31, 1999.

     In March 1999, the Company completed a public offering of $300 million
principal amount of 7 3/8% notes which are due on March 15, 2006. The notes were
issued under the Company's $600 million universal shelf registration statement
which was previously declared effective by the SEC on June 30, 1998. Net
proceeds from the financing of approximately $297.5 million were used to pay
down borrowings under the Company's bank credit facilities.

     In March 1999, the Gulf Coast Waste Disposal Authority issued and sold for
the benefit of the Company $25 million of new tax-exempt Waste Disposal Revenue
Bonds which have a fixed interest rate of 5.7% and mature on April 1, 2032. The
proceeds from the sale of these tax-exempt fixed-rate bonds were used to redeem
$25 million of the $43.5 million of taxable variable-rate Waste Disposal Revenue
Bonds which were issued in March 1998 at an initial interest rate of 5.7% and
also mature on April 1, 2032. The remaining $18.5 million of Series 1998 taxable
bonds bear interest at a variable rate determined weekly, with the Company
having the


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

right to convert this rate to a daily, weekly, short-term or long-term rate, or
to a fixed rate. In March 1998, the Gulf Coast Waste Disposal Authority issued
and sold for the benefit of the Company $25 million of tax-exempt Waste Disposal
Revenue Bonds at a fixed interest rate of 5.6%. Additionally, the Company
converted the interest rates on its $98.5 million of Series 1997 tax-exempt
Revenue Refunding Bonds and $25 million of Series 1997 tax-exempt Waste Disposal
Revenue Bonds from variable rates to a weighted average fixed rate of
approximately 5.4%. The Series 1997 Revenue Refunding Bonds were issued in four
series with due dates ranging from 2009 to 2027, while the Series 1997 Waste
Disposal Revenue Bonds were issued in one series and mature on December 1, 2031.

     In December 1997, the Company issued $150 million principal amount of 6.75%
notes for net proceeds of approximately $156 million. These notes are unsecured
and unsubordinated and rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated
obligations of the Company. The notes were issued to the Valero Pass-Through
Asset Trust 1997-1, or the Trust, which funded the acquisition of the notes
through a private placement of $150 million principal amount of 6.75%
Pass-Through Asset Trust Securities, or PATS. The PATS represent a fractional
undivided beneficial interest in the Trust. In exchange for certain
consideration paid to the Trust, a third party has an option to purchase the
notes under certain circumstances at par on December 15, 2002, at which time the
term of the notes would be extended 30 years to December 15, 2032. If the third
party does not exercise its purchase option, then under the terms of the notes,
the Company would be required to repurchase the notes at par on December 15,
2002.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company's debt to capitalization ratio was
42%, a decrease from 47.5% as of December 31, 1998.

     Based on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 1999, the Company has
no maturities of long-term debt during the next five years except for $140
million due in November 2002 under its revolving bank credit and letter of
credit facility. See above for maturities under the terms of the 6.75% notes
issued in 1997.

     As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the carrying amounts of the Company's
taxable industrial revenue bonds and revolving bank credit facility approximated
fair value due to their variable interest rates. For the Company's fixed-rate
industrial revenue bonds, 7.375% notes and 6.75% notes, their estimated fair
value as of December 31, 1999 was approximately $563 million compared to a
carrying amount of $627 million. As of December 31, 1998, the estimated fair
value of the Company's fixed-rate industrial revenue bonds and 6.75% notes was
approximately $298.2 million compared to a carrying amount of $303.8 million.
The fair values of these instruments were estimated based on borrowing rates
available to the Company for long-term debt with similar terms and average
maturities.

7. PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

     The Company is exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude
oil and refined product prices, as well as volatility in the price of natural
gas used in the Company's refining operations. In order to reduce the risks of
these price fluctuations, the Company uses derivative commodity instruments to
hedge certain refinery inventories and anticipated transactions. The Company
also uses derivative commodity instruments for trading purposes. In the tables
below detailing the Company's open derivative commodity instruments as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the total gain or (loss) as of either date on price
swaps is the net of the fixed price payor and receiver fair value amounts, while
the total gain or (loss) on options and futures is (i) the excess of the fair
value amount over the contract amount for fixed price payor positions, combined
with (ii) the excess of the contract amount over the fair value amount for fixed
price receiver positions. As discussed above in Note 1 under Price Risk
Management Activities, gains and losses on hedging activities are deferred and
recognized when the hedged transaction occurs while gains and losses on trading
activities are recognized currently.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

HEDGING ACTIVITIES

     The Company uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties to hedge certain refinery
feedstock and refined product inventories in order to reduce the impact of
adverse price changes on these inventories before the conversion of the
feedstock to finished products and ultimate sale. Swaps and futures contracts
held to hedge refining inventories at the end of 1999 and 1998 had remaining
terms of less than one year. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, 19.5% and 5%,
respectively, of the Company's refining inventory position was hedged. As of
December 31, 1999, $2.1 million of deferred hedge losses were included as an
increase in refining inventories, while no deferred hedge losses or gains were
included in refining inventories as of December 31, 1998.

     The following table provides information about the Company's derivative
commodity instruments held to hedge refining inventories as of December 31, 1999
(which mature in 2000) and December 31, 1998 (which matured in 1999)(dollars in
thousands, except amounts per barrel, or bbl). Volumes shown for swaps represent
notional volumes which are used to calculate amounts due under the agreements.



     The Company also uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties to hedge the price risk of
anticipated transactions. In 1999 and 1998, price swaps and futures were used to
hedge anticipated feedstock and product purchases, product sales and refining
operating margins by locking in purchase or sales prices or components of the
margins, including feedstock discounts, conventional gasoline and heating oil
crack spreads and premium product differentials. Price swaps were also used in
1999 and 1998 to hedge anticipated purchases of natural gas used in the
Company's refining operations. The majority of contracts hedging anticipated
transactions mature in 2000 with certain contracts extending through 2002. There
were no significant explicit deferrals of hedging gains or losses related to
these anticipated transactions as of the end of 1999 or 1998.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table provides information about the Company's derivative
commodity instruments held to hedge anticipated feedstock, product and natural
gas purchases, product sales and refining margins as of December 31, 1999 (which
mature in 2000) and December 31, 1998 (which matured in 1999)(dollars in
thousands, except amounts per barrel or per million British thermal units, or
MMBtus). Volumes shown for swaps represent notional volumes which are used to
calculate amounts due under the agreements.



     In addition to the above, as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company was
the fixed price payor under certain swap contracts held to hedge anticipated
purchases of refinery feedstocks and refined products that mature in 2002, have
notional volumes totaling approximately 7.5 million barrels, and have a weighted
average pay price of $20.11 per barrel. As of December 31, 1999, these swaps had
a weighted average receive price of $18.02 per barrel and a net unrecognized
fair value of approximately $7.4 million. As of December 31, 1998, these swaps
had a weighted average receive price of $17.04 per barrel with no unrecognized
fair value.

TRADING ACTIVITIES

     The Company also uses derivative commodity instruments such as price swaps,
options and futures contracts with third parties for trading purposes using its
fundamental and technical analysis of market conditions to earn additional
income. These contracts run for periods of up to 24 months. As a result,
contracts outstanding as of December 31, 1999 will mature in 2000 or 2001.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table provides information about the Company's derivative
commodity instruments held or issued for trading purposes as of December 31,
1999 (which mature in 2000 or 2001) and December 31, 1998 (which matured in 1999
or 2000) (dollars in thousands, except amounts per barrel or per million British
thermal units). Volumes shown for swaps represent notional volumes which are
used to calculate amounts due under the agreements.



     The following table discloses the net gains (losses) from trading
activities and average fair values of contracts held or issued for trading
purposes for the periods ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 (dollars in
thousands):



MARKET AND CREDIT RISK

     The Company's price risk management activities involve the receipt or
payment of fixed price commitments into the future. These transactions give rise
to market risk, the risk that future changes in market conditions may make an
instrument less valuable. The Company closely monitors and manages its exposure
to market risk on a daily basis in accordance with policies approved by the
Company's Board of Directors. Market risks are monitored by a risk control group
to ensure compliance with the Company's stated risk management policy.
Concentrations of customers in the refining industry may impact the Company's
overall exposure to credit risk, in that these customers may be similarly
affected by changes in economic or


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

other conditions. The Company believes that its counterparties will be able to
satisfy their obligations under contracts.

8. REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK

     On March 30, 1997, Old Valero redeemed the remaining 11,500 outstanding
shares of its $8.50 Series A cumulative preferred stock. The redemption price
was $104 per share, plus dividends accrued to the redemption date of $.685 per
share.

9. CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In April 1997, Old Valero called all of its outstanding $3.125 convertible
preferred stock for redemption on June 2, 1997. The redemption price was $52.188
per share, plus accrued dividends of $.0086 per share for the one-day period
from June 1 to June 2, 1997. This preferred stock was convertible into Old
Valero common stock at a price of $27.03 per share, or approximately 1.85 shares
of Old Valero common stock for each share of convertible preferred stock. Before
the redemption, substantially all of the outstanding shares of convertible
preferred stock were converted into Old Valero common stock.

10. PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS

     Each outstanding share of the Company's common stock is accompanied by one
Preferred Share Purchase Right, or Right. With certain exceptions, each Right
entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of
a share of the Company's Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series I at a
price of $100 per one one-hundredth of a share, subject to adjustment for
certain recapitalization events.

     The Rights are transferable only with the common stock until the earlier of
(i) 10 days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated
or associated persons, any such person, group or associates being referred to as
an Acquiring Person, has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the
outstanding shares of the Company's common stock, (ii) 10 business days (or
later date as may be determined by action of the Company's Board of Directors)
following the initiation of a tender offer or exchange offer which would result
in an Acquiring Person having beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the
Company's outstanding common stock (the earlier of the date of the occurrence of
(i) or (ii) being called the Rights Separation Date), or (iii) the earlier
redemption or expiration of the Rights. The Rights are not exercisable until the
Rights Separation Date. At any time prior to the acquisition by an Acquiring
Person of beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock,
the Company's Board of Directors may redeem the Rights at a price of $.01 per
Right. The Rights will expire on June 30, 2007, unless extended or the Rights
are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

     If after the Rights Separation Date the Company is acquired in a merger or
other business combination transaction, or if 50% or more of its consolidated
assets or earning power are sold, each holder of a Right will have the right to
receive, upon the exercise of the Right at its then current exercise price, that
number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time of
the transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise price of the
Right. In the event that any Acquiring Person becomes the beneficial owner of
15% or more of the outstanding common stock, each holder of a Right, other than
Rights beneficially owned by the Acquiring Person (which will thereafter be
void), will thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise that number of
shares of common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of
the Right.

     At any time after an Acquiring Person acquires beneficial ownership of 15%
or more of the outstanding common stock and prior to the acquisition by the
Acquiring Person of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock, the Company's
Board of Directors may exchange the Right (other than Rights owned by the


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Acquiring Person which have become void), at an exchange ratio of one share of
common stock, or one one-hundredth of a share of Junior Preferred Stock, per
Right (subject to adjustment).

     Until a Right is exercised, the holder will have no rights as a stockholder
of the Company including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive
dividends.

     The Rights may have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights will cause
substantial dilution to any Acquiring Person that attempts to acquire the
Company on terms not approved by the Company's Board of Directors, except
pursuant to an offer conditioned on a substantial number of Rights being
acquired. The Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business
combination approved by the Company's Board of Directors since the Rights may be
redeemed by the Company prior to the time that an Acquiring Person has acquired
beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the common stock.

11. SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company's operations consist primarily of five petroleum refineries
located in Texas at Corpus Christi, Texas City and Houston, in Louisiana at
Krotz Springs, and in New Jersey at Paulsboro, which have a combined throughput
capacity of approximately 785,000 barrels per day. In applying the requirements
of SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information," the Company's five refineries, each of which represents an
operating segment as defined by the statement, have been aggregated as allowed
by the statement for reporting purposes. As a result, the Company has one
reportable segment, which is the refining and wholesale marketing of premium,
environmentally clean products.

     The Company's principal products include reformulated and conventional
gasolines, low-sulfur diesel and oxygenates. The Company also produces a
substantial slate of middle distillates, jet fuel and petrochemicals, in
addition to lube oils and asphalt. The Company currently markets its products to
wholesale customers in 31 states and in selected export markets in Latin
America. Revenues from external customers for the Company's principal products
for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were as follows (in
thousands):



     In 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company had no significant amount of export
sales and no significant foreign operations. In 1999, 13% of the Company's
consolidated operating revenues were derived from sales to Mobil Oil
Corporation, while in 1998 and 1997, no single customer accounted for more than
10% of the Company's consolidated operating revenues.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12. INCOME TAXES

     Components of income tax expense (benefit) applicable to continuing
operations were as follows (in thousands):



     The following is a reconciliation of total income tax expense (benefit)
applicable to continuing operations to income taxes computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate (35% for all years presented) to income (loss)
from continuing operations before income taxes (in thousands):



     The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):



     As of December 31, 1999, the Company had federal net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $139 million which are available to reduce future
federal taxable income, some of which will expire in 2018


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

and the remainder in 2019 if not utilized. In addition, the Company had an
alternative minimum tax credit carryforward of approximately $28 million, and a
research and experimentation credit carryforward of approximately $6 million,
both of which are available to reduce future federal income tax liabilities. The
alternative minimum tax credit carryforward has no expiration date, while the
research and experimentation credit carryforward expires between 2004 and 2011.
No valuation allowances were recorded against deferred income tax assets as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998.

     The Company's taxable years through 1995 are closed to adjustment by the
Internal Revenue Service. The Company believes that adequate provisions for
income taxes have been reflected in its consolidated financial statements.

13. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

PENSION PLANS AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

     The Company's pension plan, which is subject to the provisions of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, is designed to
provide eligible employees with retirement income. Participation in the plan
commences upon the completion of one year of continuous service. Upon becoming a
participant, all service since date of hire is included in determining vesting
and credited service, except for employees of the Company who were formerly
employed by Mobil or Basis (see Note 3). For former Mobil employees who became
employees of the Company, full credit was given for service with Mobil prior to
September 17, 1998 for vesting and eligibility purposes, but for benefit accrual
purposes, only service on and after this date is counted under the plan. For
former Basis employees who became employees of the Company, full credit was
given for service with Basis prior to May 1, 1997 for vesting and eligibility
purposes, but for benefit accrual purposes, only service on and after January 1,
1998 is counted under the plan. A participant generally vests in plan benefits
after five years of vesting service or upon reaching normal retirement.

     At the time of the Restructuring, the Company became solely responsible for
(i) pension liabilities existing immediately prior to the Restructuring to, or
relating to, Old Valero employees which became employees of PG&E after the
Restructuring, which will become payable upon their retirement, (ii) all
liabilities to, or relating to, former employees of Old Valero and the Company,
and (iii) all liabilities to, or relating to, current employees of the Company.
In connection with the Restructuring, Old Valero approved the establishment of a
supplement to the pension plan, referred to as the 1997 Window Plan, which
permitted certain employees to retire from employment during 1997. Also, the
Company became the sponsor of Old Valero's nonqualified Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan, or SERP, which is designed to provide additional pension
benefits to executive officers and certain other employees, and assumed all
liabilities with respect to current and former employees of both Old Valero and
the Company under this plan.

     The pension plan provides a monthly pension payable upon normal retirement
of an amount equal to a set formula which is based on the participant's 60
consecutive highest months of compensation during the latest 10 years of
credited service under the plan. All contributions to the plan are made by the
Company and contributions by participants are neither required nor permitted.
Company contributions, if and when permitted under ERISA, are actuarially
determined in an amount sufficient to fund the currently accruing benefits and
amortize any prior service cost over the expected life of the then current work
force. The Company's contributions to the pension plan and SERP in 1999, 1998
and 1997 were approximately $7.4 million, $7.2 million and $8.8 million,
respectively, and are currently estimated to be $4.8 million in 2000.

     The Company also provides certain health care and life insurance benefits
for retired employees, referred to as postretirement benefits other than
pensions. Substantially all of the Company's employees may become eligible for
these benefits if, while still working for the Company, they either reach normal
retirement age or take early retirement. Health care benefits are offered by the
Company through a self-insured plan and a health maintenance organization while
life insurance benefits are provided through an insurance company.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The Company funds its postretirement benefits other than pensions on a
pay-as-you-go basis. Employees of the Company who were formerly employees of
Mobil and Basis became eligible for postretirement benefits other than pensions
under the Company's plan effective September 17, 1998 and May 1, 1997,
respectively. At the time of the Restructuring, the Company became responsible
for all liabilities to former employees of both Old Valero and the Company as
well as current employees of the Company arising under Old Valero's health care
and life insurance programs.

     The following tables set forth for the Company's (i) pension plans,
including the SERP, and (ii) postretirement benefits other than pensions, the
funded status of the plans and amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated
financial statements as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, as well as changes in the
benefit obligation and plan assets for the years then ended (in thousands):




                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Total benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
included the following components (in thousands):



     Amortization of prior service cost as shown in the above table is based on
the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits
under the plan. The weighted-average assumptions used in computing the actuarial
present value of the pension benefit and other postretirement benefit
obligations for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows:



     For measurement purposes, the health care cost trend rate is assumed to
remain at five percent for all years after 1999. Assumed health care cost trend
rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. A
one percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have
the following effects on postretirement benefits other than pensions:



PROFIT-SHARING/SAVINGS PLANS

     The Company is the sponsor of the Valero Energy Corporation Thrift Plan
which is a qualified employee profit-sharing plan. The purpose of the Thrift
Plan is to provide a program whereby contributions of participating employees
and their employers are systematically invested to provide the employees an
interest in the Company and to further their financial independence.
Participation in the Thrift Plan is voluntary and is open to employees of the
Company who become eligible to participate upon the completion of one month of
continuous service. Employees of the Company who were formerly employed by Mobil
and Basis became

                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

eligible to participate in the Thrift Plan on September 17, 1998 and January 1,
1998, respectively, under the same service requirements as required for other
Company employees, with service including prior employment with Mobil or Basis.
Effective January 1999, former Mobil employees who became employees of the
Company could elect to transfer their balances from the Mobil employee savings
plan into the Thrift Plan or maintain these amounts in the Mobil plan. For
former Basis employees who became employees of the Company, Basis' previously
existing 401(k) profit-sharing and retirement savings plan was maintained
through December 31, 1997 and was merged into the Company's Thrift Plan
effective January 1, 1998. At the time of the Restructuring, the Company became
solely responsible for all Thrift Plan liabilities arising after the
Restructuring with respect to current Company employees and former employees of
both Old Valero and the Company. Each Old Valero employee participating in the
Thrift Plan before the Restructuring who became a PG&E employee after the
Restructuring had their account balance transferred to the PG&E savings plan.

     Participating employees may contribute from 2% up to 22% of their total
annual compensation, subject to certain limitations, to the Thrift Plan.
Participants may elect to make these contributions on either a before-tax or
after-tax basis, or both, with federal income taxes on before-tax contributions
being deferred until a distribution is made to the participant. Participants'
contributions of up to 8% of their base annual compensation are matched 75% by
the Company, with an additional match of up to 25% subject to certain
conditions. Participants' contributions in excess of 8% of their base annual
compensation are not matched by the Company. Up until the termination in 1997 of
the Valero Employees' Stock Ownership Plan, or VESOP, a leveraged employee stock
ownership plan established by Old Valero in 1989, the Company's matching
contributions were made to the VESOP in the amount of the VESOP's debt service,
with any excess made to the Thrift Plan. After the VESOP termination, all
Company matching contributions were made to the Thrift Plan. Company
contributions to the Thrift Plan were $6,670,841, $5,298,870 and $2,247,491 (net
of forfeitures) for the years 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. During 1997,
the Company contributed $586,000 to the VESOP. This amount consisted of $58,000
of interest on the VESOP's debt and $541,000 of compensation expense. Dividends
on VESOP shares of common stock were recorded as a reduction of retained
earnings. Dividends on allocated shares of common stock were paid to
participants. Dividends paid on unallocated shares were used to reduce the
Company's contributions to the VESOP during 1997 by $13,000. VESOP shares of
common stock were considered outstanding for earnings per share computations.

STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

     The Company has various fixed and performance-based stock compensation
plans. The Company's Executive Stock Incentive Plan, or ESIP, which was
maintained by Old Valero before the Restructuring, authorizes the grant of
various stock and stock-related awards to executive officers and other key
employees. Awards available under the ESIP include options to purchase shares of
common stock, performance shares which vest upon the achievement of an objective
performance goal, and restricted stock which vests over a period determined by
the Company's compensation committee. (Note: All restricted stock issued before
the Restructuring under Old Valero's stock compensation plans became fully
vested either upon the approval of the Restructuring by Old Valero's
stockholders on June 18, 1997 or upon the completion of the Restructuring on
July 31, 1997.) A total of 2,500,000 shares of Company common stock may be
issued under the ESIP, of which no more than 1,000,000 shares may be issued as
restricted stock. The Company also has a non-qualified stock option plan which,
at the date of the Restructuring, replaced three non-qualified stock option
plans previously maintained by Old Valero. Awards under the stock option plan
are granted to key officers, employees and prospective employees of the Company.
A total of 2,000,000 shares of Company common stock may be issued under this
plan. The Company also maintains an Executive Incentive Bonus Plan, under which
200,000 shares of Company common stock may be issued, that provides bonus
compensation to key employees of the Company based on individual contributions
to Company profitability. Bonuses are payable either in cash, Company common
stock, or both. The Company also has a non-employee director stock option


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

plan, under which 200,000 shares of Company common stock may be issued, and a
non-employee director restricted stock plan, under which 100,000 shares of
Company common stock may be issued.

     The number and weighted-average grant-date fair value of shares of Company
common stock granted under the above-noted plans (other than shares related to
stock options which are presented in a separate table below) during 1999, 1998
and 1997 were as follows:



     Under the terms of the ESIP, the stock option plan and the non-employee
director stock option plan, the exercise price of options granted will not be
less than the fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date of
grant. Stock options become exercisable pursuant to the individual written
agreements between the Company and the participants, usually in three equal
annual installments beginning one year after the date of grant, with unexercised
options generally expiring ten years from the date of grant. In connection with
the Restructuring, all stock options held by Old Valero employees under any of
Old Valero's various stock compensation plans that were granted prior to January
1, 1997 became 100% vested and immediately exercisable upon the approval of the
Restructuring by Old Valero's stockholders on June 18, 1997. For all options
still outstanding at the time of the Restructuring, each option to purchase Old
Valero common stock held by a current or former employee of the Company was
converted into an option to acquire shares of Company common stock, and each
option held by a current or former employee of Old Valero's natural gas related
services business was converted into an option to acquire shares of PG&E common
stock. In each case, the number of options and related exercise prices were
converted so that the aggregate option value for each holder immediately after
the Restructuring was equal to the aggregate option value immediately before the
Restructuring. The other terms and conditions of these converted options
remained essentially unchanged.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of the status of the Company's stock option plans, including
options granted under the ESIP, the stock option plan, the non-employee director
stock option plan and Old Valero's previously existing stock compensation plans,
as of December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, and changes during the years then ended
is presented in the table below. (Note: The outstanding shares at July 31, 1997
before the Restructuring are different from the outstanding shares at August 1,
1997 after the Restructuring because the August 1 amount: (i) reflects the
conversion of Old Valero options held by current or former employees of the
Company to an equivalent number of Company options and (ii) excludes options
held by current or former employees of Old Valero's natural gas related services
business which were converted to PG&E options.)



     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
under the ESIP, the stock option plan and the non-employee director stock option
plan as of December 31, 1999:



     The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the grant date using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively: risk-free
interest rates of 5.5 percent, 5.0 percent and 6.3 percent; expected dividend
yields of 1.6 percent, 1.4 percent and 1.5 percent; expected lives of 3.2 years,
3.1 years and 3.2 years; and expected volatility of 42.3 percent, 28.2 percent
and 26.2 percent. As a result of insufficient stock price history for Valero
subsequent to the Restructuring, the expected volatility assumption for grants
in 1998 and 1997 was based on the stock price history of Old Valero, whereas the
expected volatility assumption for 1999 grants was based on the stock price
history of Valero subsequent to the Restructuring.

     For each common share that can be purchased in connection with a stock
option, the stock option plan provides, and the predecessor stock option plans
of Old Valero provided, that a stock appreciation right, or SAR, may also be
granted. A SAR is a right to receive a cash payment equal to the difference
between the fair market value of common stock on the exercise date and the
option price of the stock to which the SAR is related. SARs are exercisable only
upon the exercise of the related stock options. At the end of each reporting
period during the exercise period, the Company recorded an adjustment to
compensation expense based on the


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

difference between the fair market value of common stock at the end of each
reporting period and the option price of the stock to which the SAR was related.
There were no SARs outstanding as of December 31, 1999, 1998 or 1997. A summary
of SAR activity for the seven months ended July 31, 1997 is presented in the
table below.



     The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in
accounting for its plans. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized
for its fixed stock option plans. The after-tax compensation cost reflected in
net income for stock-based compensation plans was $4 million, $3 million and
$4.6 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Of the 1997 amount, $2.1
million related to the discontinued natural gas related services business. Had
compensation cost for the Company's stock-based compensation plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for 1999, 1998 and 1997
awards under those plans consistent with the method of SFAS No. 123, the
Company's net income and earnings per share for the years ended December 31,
1999 and 1997 would have been reduced, and the Company's net loss and loss per
share for the year ended December 31, 1998 would have increased to the pro forma
amounts indicated below:



     Because the SFAS No. 123 method of accounting has not been applied to
awards granted prior to January 1, 1995, the resulting pro forma compensation
cost may not be representative of that to be expected in future years.

14. LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS

     The Company has long-term operating lease commitments in connection with
land, office facilities and equipment, and various facilities and equipment used
in the storage, transportation and production of refinery feedstocks and refined
products. Long-term leases for land have remaining primary terms of up to 24.7
years, while long-term leases for office facilities have remaining primary terms
of up to 2.5 years. The Company's long-term leases for production equipment,
feedstock and refined product storage facilities and transportation assets have
remaining primary terms of up to 5.25 years and in certain cases provide for
various contingent payments based on, among other things, throughput volumes in
excess of a base amount.


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Future minimum lease payments and minimum rentals to be received under
subleases as of December 31, 1999 for operating leases having initial or
remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows (in
thousands):



     Consolidated rental expense under operating leases for continuing
operations amounted to approximately $57,005,000, $47,779,000, and $39,578,000
for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. These amounts are included in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income under "Cost of sales and
operating expenses" and "Selling and administrative expenses" and include
various month-to-month and other short-term rentals in addition to rents paid
and accrued under long-term lease commitments.

     In addition to commitments under operating leases, the Company also has a
commitment under a product supply arrangement to pay a reservation fee of
approximately $10.8 million annually through August 2002. In addition, during
1999, in order to secure a firm supply of hydrogen for the Texas City Refinery,
the Company entered into long-term hydrogen supply arrangements with initial
terms of approximately 15 years. Under these agreements, the Company is
obligated to make fixed minimum payments of approximately $4.9 million annually,
as well as other minimum payments which vary based on certain natural gas
reference prices.

15. LITIGATION AND CONTINGENCIES

LITIGATION RELATING TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     Old Valero and certain of its natural gas related subsidiaries, and the
Company, have been sued by Teco Pipeline Company regarding the operation of the
340-mile West Texas Pipeline in which a subsidiary of Old Valero holds a 50%
undivided interest. In 1985, a subsidiary of Old Valero sold a 50% undivided
interest in the pipeline and entered into a joint venture through an ownership
agreement and an operating agreement, with the purchaser of the interest. In
1988, Teco succeeded to that purchaser's 50% interest. A subsidiary of Old
Valero has at all times been the operator of the pipeline. Despite the written
ownership and operating agreements, the plaintiff contends that a separate,
unwritten partnership agreement exists, and that the defendants have exercised
improper control over this alleged partnership's affairs. The plaintiff also
contends that the defendants acted in bad faith and negatively affected the
economics of the joint venture in order to provide financial advantages to
facilities or entities owned by the defendants, and by allegedly taking for the
defendants' own benefit certain opportunities available to the joint venture.
The plaintiff asserts causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud,
tortious interference with business relationships, professional malpractice and
other claims, and seeks unquantified actual and punitive damages. Old Valero's
motion to require arbitration of the case as required in the written agreements
was denied by the trial court, but Old Valero appealed, and in August 1999, the
court of appeals ruled in Old Valero's favor and ordered arbitration of the
entire dispute. Teco has since waived efforts to further appeal this ruling, and
an arbitration panel has been selected. The Company has been formally added to
this proceeding. The arbitration panel has scheduled the arbitration hearing for
October 2000. Although PG&E previously acquired Teco and now owns both Teco


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

and Old Valero, PG&E's Teco acquisition agreement purports to assign the benefit
or detriment of this lawsuit to the former shareholders of Teco. In connection
with the Restructuring, the Company has agreed to indemnify Old Valero with
respect to this lawsuit for 50% of any final judgment or settlement amount up to
$30 million, and 100% of that part of any final judgment or settlement amount
over $30 million.

OTHER LITIGATION

     In 1986, the Company filed suit against M.W. Kellogg Company for damages
arising from certain alleged design and construction defects in connection with
a major construction project at the Corpus Christi Refinery. Ingersoll-Rand
Company was added as a defendant in 1989. In 1991, the trial court granted
summary judgment against Valero based in part on certain exculpatory provisions
in various agreements connected with the project. In 1993, the court of appeals
affirmed the summary judgment and the Texas Supreme Court denied review.
Subsequent to the summary judgment, Kellogg and Ingersoll-Rand brought indemnity
claims against Valero for attorney's fees and expenses incurred in defending the
original action. In 1996, the trial court rendered summary judgment against
Kellogg and Ingersoll-Rand based on procedural grounds, and the court of appeals
affirmed that ruling in 1997. However, in 1999, the Texas Supreme Court reversed
the court of appeals and remanded Kellogg's and Ingersoll-Rand's claims for
attorney's fees and expenses to the trial court. The Company has denied that it
has any liability with respect to these claims and has raised several
substantive defenses to these claims in the trial court.

GENERAL

     The Company is also a party to additional claims and legal proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes it is unlikely
that the final outcome of any of the claims or proceedings to which it is a
party would have a material adverse effect on its financial statements; however,
due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, the range of possible loss, if
any, cannot be estimated with a reasonable degree of precision and there can be
no assurance that the resolution of any particular claim or proceeding would not
have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial
condition.

16. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The Company's results of operations by quarter for the years ended December
31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows (in thousands of dollars, except per share
amounts):




                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------

(1) Includes the operations of the Paulsboro Refinery beginning September 17,
    1998.

(2) The first quarter, fourth quarter and total year 1998 operating income
    (loss) includes the unfavorable effect of inventory write-downs to market of
    $37,673, $133,256, and $170,929, respectively. These write-downs resulted in
    a reduction in net income for those periods of $24,488, $86,616, and
    $111,104, respectively, and a reduction in earnings per common share of
    $.43, $1.55, and $1.98, respectively.

17. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CALIFORNIA REFINING AND MARKETING ASSETS

     On March 2, 2000, Valero and ExxonMobil Corporation executed a sale and
purchase agreement for the purchase by Valero of ExxonMobil's Benicia,
California refinery and all Exxon-branded California retail assets for a
purchase price of $895 million plus an amount representing the value of
inventories acquired in the transaction, which will be based on market-related
prices at closing. ExxonMobil agreed to sell these assets as a result of Consent
Decrees issued by the Federal Trade Commission and the State of California
providing that certain assets be divested by ExxonMobil to satisfy
anticompetitive issues in connection with the recent merger of Exxon Corporation
and Mobil Corporation. Valero's acquisition of the ExxonMobil California assets
is pending approval from the Federal Trade Commission and the State of
California.

     The Benicia Refinery is located on the Carquinez Straits of the San
Francisco Bay. It is considered a highly complex refinery and has a rated crude
oil capacity of 130,000 barrels per day. The Benicia Refinery produces a high
percentage of light products, with limited production of natural gas liquids and
other products. Over 95% of the gasoline produced by the Benicia Refinery meets
the California Air Resources Board specifications for gasoline sold in
California. The refinery has significant liquid storage capacity including
storage for crude oil and other feedstocks. Also included with the refinery
assets are a deepwater dock located offsite on the Carquinez Straits which is
capable of berthing large crude carriers, petroleum coke storage silos located
on an adjacent dock, a 20-inch crude pipeline connecting the refinery to a
southern California crude delivery system, and an adjacent truck terminal for
regional truck rack sales. Under the Consent Decrees, ExxonMobil was required to
offer the buyer of the divested assets a crude oil supply contract. As a
consequence, the sale and purchase agreement includes a contract allowing Valero
to purchase up to 100,000 barrels per day of Alaska North Slope crude oil at
market-related prices delivered to the Benicia Refinery.

     The retail assets include 10 company-owned and operated sites and 70
company-owned lessee-dealer sites, 75 of which are in the San Francisco Bay
area. Under the Consent Decrees, the Federal Trade Commission and the State of
California ordered that ExxonMobil withdraw the "Exxon" brand name from this
area. As a result, ExxonMobil has notified the dealers in this market area that
their franchise right to market "Exxon" branded products is being terminated
effective June 15, 2000. Valero will offer its own brand to market retail
petroleum products at these locations. Due to the timing requirements of
ExxonMobil's franchise termination notice to various dealers as described above,
ExxonMobil cannot close the transaction


                   VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

until (i) all of the dealers agree to terminate their franchise agreements or
(ii) June 15, 2000, whichever comes first.

     Also included in the retail assets are up to 260 independently-owned and
operated distributor facilities which are located outside of the San Francisco
Bay area. The distributor locations will retain the right to use the Exxon
brand, continue to accept the Exxon proprietary credit card and receive Exxon
brand support, while Valero will receive the exclusive rights to offer the Exxon
brand throughout the state (except for the San Francisco Bay area) for a
ten-year period. In connection with the acquisition, ExxonMobil will assign to
Valero all of the existing Exxon California distributor contracts under which
the distributors will purchase Exxon branded products from Valero after the
acquisition. Valero will supply distributors either directly through a refined
products pipeline or indirectly through petroleum product exchange transactions.

     The acquisition will be funded through a mix of debt, equity and structured
lease financing. The debt would be a combination of borrowings under Valero's
existing bank credit facility and new term debt. The equity component will be
between $250 million and $350 million of some combination of common stock and
convertible preferred stock, including mandatory convertible preferred stock. In
case any of these financing sources are not finalized or available at the
closing date, Valero will close the purchase with interim financing consisting
of (i) a committed $600 million bank bridge facility which has been established
and (ii) borrowings under its existing bank credit facilities with related
amendments to these facilities providing for a higher debt-to-capitalization
limit (which amendments will be underwritten by the provider of the bridge
financing).

     It is anticipated that the transaction will close on June 15, 2000;
however, there can be no assurance that the transaction will close on this date
or that all of the conditions required to close the transaction will be met.

OTHER

     On January 20, 2000, the Company's Board of Directors declared a regular
quarterly cash dividend of $.08 per common share payable March 15, 2000, to
holders of record at the close of business on February 16, 2000.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information on directors required by Items 401 and 405 of Regulation
S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement which will be filed with the Commission by April 28, 2000.

     Information concerning the Company's executive officers appears in Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) 1. Financial Statements. The following Consolidated Financial
Statements of Valero Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries are included in
Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K:



     2. Financial Statement Schedules and Other Financial Information. No
financial statement schedules are submitted because either they are inapplicable
or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or notes thereto.

     3. Exhibits. Filed as part of this Form 10-K are the following exhibits:













- ---------------

 * Filed herewith

 + Identifies management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements
   required to be filed as an exhibit hereto pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form
   10-K.

** The Financial Data Schedule shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of
   Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, and is included as an exhibit only to the electronic
   filing of this Form 10-K in accordance with Item 601(c) of Regulation S-K and
   Section 401 of Regulation S-T.

     Copies of exhibits filed as a part of this Form 10-K may be obtained by
stockholders of record at a charge of $.15 per page, minimum $5.00 each request.
Direct inquiries to Jay D. Browning, Corporate Secretary, Valero Energy
Corporation, P.O. Box 500, San Antonio, Texas 78292.

     Pursuant to paragraph 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, the registrant
has omitted from the foregoing listing of exhibits, and hereby agrees to furnish
to the Commission upon its request, copies of certain instruments, each relating
to long-term debt not exceeding 10% of the total assets of the registrant and
its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K. The Company did not file any Current Reports on
Form 8-K during the quarter ended December 31, 1999.

     For the purposes of complying with the rules governing Form S-8 under the
Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned registrant hereby undertakes as follows,
which undertaking shall be incorporated by reference into registrant's
Registration Statements on Form S-8 No. 333-31709 (filed July 21, 1997), No.
333-31721 (filed July 21, 1997), No. 333-31723 (filed July 21, 1997) and No.
333-31727 (filed July 21, 1997):

     Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act
of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the
registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant
has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act
of 1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling
person of the registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent,
submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question of whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will
be governed by the final adjudication of such issue.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
                                            (Registrant)

                                            By    /s/ WILLIAM E. GREEHEY
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                    (William E. Greehey)
                                            Chairman of the Board, President and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 2, 2000



                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below hereby constitutes and appoints William E. Greehey, John D. Gibbons and
Jay D. Browning, or any of them, each with power to act without the other, his
true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign any or all subsequent amendments and supplements to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, or cause to be filed the same,
with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and
agent full power to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby qualifying and confirming all
that said attorney-in-fact and agent or his substitute or substitutes may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX









- ---------------

 * Filed herewith

 + Identifies management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements
   required to be filed as an exhibit hereto pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form
   10-K.

** The Financial Data Schedule shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of
   Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, and is included as an exhibit only to the electronic
   filing of this Form 10-K in accordance with Item 601(c) of Regulation S-K and
   Section 401 of Regulation S-T.

