ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (“NOV” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1995,
is a leading worldwide provider of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling and
production operations, oilfield services, and supply chain integration services to the upstream oil
and gas industry. The Company conducts operations in over 825 locations across six continents.

On April 21, 2008 we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Grant Prideco, Inc. (“Grant
Prideco”) for a total purchase price of $7.2 billion of cash and NOV common stock. We have included
the financial results of Grant Prideco in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on April
21, 2008, the date Grant Prideco common shares were exchanged for National Oilwell Varco common
shares and cash. The Grant Prideco operations are included in the Petroleum Services & Supplies
segment.

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 7909 Parkwood Circle Drive, Houston, Texas
77036, its telephone number is (713) 346-7500, and its Internet website address ishttp://www.nov.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available free of charge on
its Internet website. These reports are posted on its website as soon as reasonably practicable
after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s Code of Ethics is also posted on its website.

The Company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness,
efficiency, safety and environmental impact of oil and gas operations. The Company’s common stock
is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NOV”. The Company operates through three
business segments: Rig Technology, Petroleum Services & Supplies, and Distribution Services.

Rig Technology

Our Rig Technology segment designs, manufactures, sells and services complete systems for the
drilling, completion, and servicing of oil and gas wells. The segment offers a comprehensive line
of highly-engineered equipment that automates complex well construction and management operations,
such as offshore and onshore drilling rigs; derricks; pipe lifting, racking, rotating and assembly
systems; rig instrumentation systems; coiled tubing equipment and pressure pumping units; well
workover rigs; wireline winches; wireline trucks; and cranes. Demand for Rig Technology products is
primarily dependent on capital spending plans by drilling contractors, oilfield service companies,
and oil and gas companies; and secondarily on the overall level of oilfield drilling activity,
which drives demand for spare parts for the segment’s large installed base of equipment. We have
made strategic acquisitions and other investments during the past several years in an effort to
expand our product offering and our global manufacturing capabilities, including adding additional
operations in the United States, Canada, Norway, the United Kingdom, China, Belarus, India, Turkey,
the Netherlands, Singapore, Brazil, and South Korea.

Petroleum Services & Supplies





Distribution Services

Our Distribution Services segment provides maintenance, repair and operating supplies (“MRO”) and
spare parts to drill site and production locations worldwide. In addition to its comprehensive
network of field locations supporting land drilling operations throughout North America, the
segment supports major offshore drilling contractors through locations in Mexico, the Middle East,
Europe, Southeast Asia and South America. Distribution Services employs advanced information
technologies to provide complete procurement, inventory management and logistics services to its
customers around the globe. Demand for the segment’s services is determined primarily by the level
of drilling, servicing, and oil and gas production activities.

The following table sets forth the contribution to our total revenues of our three operating
segments (in millions):

Years Ended December 31,200920082007Revenue:Rig Technology$8,093$7,528$5,745Petroleum
Services & Supplies3,7454,6513,061Distribution Services1,3501,7721,424Eliminations(476)(520)(441)Total Revenue$12,712$13,431$9,789

See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for financial information by segment and a geographical breakout of revenues and long-lived assets.
We have included a glossary of oilfield terms at the end of Item 1. “Business” of this Annual
Report.

Influence of Oil and Gas Activity Levels on the Company’s Business

The oil and gas industry in which the Company participates has historically experienced significant
volatility. Demand for the Company’s services and products depends primarily upon the general level
of activity in the oil and gas industry worldwide, including the number of drilling rigs in
operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of
these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions and the level of well
remediation activity. Oil and gas activity is in turn heavily influenced by, among other factors,
oil and gas prices worldwide. High levels of drilling and well-remediation activity generally spurs
demand for the Company’s products and services used to drill and remediate oil and gas wells.
Additionally, high levels of oil and gas activity increase cash flows available for drilling
contractors, oilfield service companies, and manufacturers of oil country tubular goods to invest
in capital equipment that the Company sells.

Beginning in early 2004, increasing oil and gas prices led to steadily rising levels of drilling
activity throughout the world. Concerns about the long-term availability of oil and gas supply also
began to build. Consequently, the worldwide rig count increased 11% in 2006, 2% in 2007, and 7% in
2008. As a result of higher cash flows realized by many drilling contractors and other oilfield
service companies, as well as the long-term concerns about supply-demand imbalance and the need to
replace aging equipment, market conditions for capital equipment purchases have improved
significantly since 2006 and 2007, resulting in higher backlogs for the Company at the end of 2008
compared to the end of 2006 and 2007. However, as a result of the financial crisis and
significantly lower commodity prices, the worldwide drilling rig count declined 31% in 2009 and
customers were far less willing to commit to major capital equipment purchases in 2009. As a
result, our order rates were substantially lower in 2009. Backlog for the Company was
approximately $6.4 billion at December 31, 2009 compared to approximately $11.1 billion and
$9.0 billion for December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

In 2008 and 2009, most of the Company’s Rig Technology revenue resulted from major capital
expenditures of drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and oil companies on rig
construction and refurbishment, and well servicing equipment. These capital expenditures are
influenced by the amount of cash flow that contractors and service companies generate from
drilling, completion, and remediation activity; as well as by the availability of financing, the
outlook for future drilling and well servicing activity, and other factors. Generally, the Company
believes the demand for capital equipment lags increases in the level of drilling activity. Most of
the remainder of the Rig Technology segment’s revenue are related to the sale of spare parts and
consumables, the provision of equipment-repair services, and the rental of equipment, which the
Company believes are generally determined directly by the level of drilling and well servicing
activity.

The majority of the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies revenue is closely tied to drilling
activity, although a portion is related to the sale of capital equipment to drilling contractors,
which may somewhat lag the level of drilling activity. Portions of the segment’s revenue that are
not tied to drilling activity include (i) the sale of progressive cavity pumps and solids control
equipment for
use in industrial applications, and (ii) the sale of fiberglass and composite tubing to industrial
customers, which is generally unrelated to drilling or well remediation activity but may be tied
somewhat to oil and gas prices.





The Company’s revenue from Distribution Services is almost entirely driven by drilling activity and
oil and gas production activities. Drilling and well servicing activity can fluctuate
significantly in a short period of time.

The willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital investments to explore for and produce oil
and natural gas will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no
control, including: the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(“OPEC”) to maintain oil price stability through voluntary production limits of oil; the level of
oil production by non-OPEC countries; supply and demand for oil and natural gas; general economic
and political conditions; costs of exploration and production; the availability of new leases and
concessions; access to external financing; and governmental regulations regarding, among other
things, environmental protection, climate change, taxation, price controls and product allocations.
The willingness of drilling contractors and well servicing companies to make capital expenditures
for the type of specialized equipment the Company provides is also influenced by numerous factors
over which the Company has no control, including: the general level of oil and gas well drilling
and servicing; rig dayrates; access to external financing; outlook for future increases in well
drilling and well remediation activity; steel prices and fabrication costs; and government
regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, taxation, and price controls.

See additional discussion on current worldwide economic environment and related oil and gas
activity levels in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Overview of Oil and Gas Well Drilling and Servicing Processes

Oil and gas wells are usually drilled by drilling contractors using a drilling rig. A bit is
attached to the end of a drill stem, which is assembled by the drilling rig and its crew from
30-foot joints of drill pipe and specialized drilling components known as downhole tools. Using the
conventional rotary drilling method, the drill stem is turned from the rotary table of the drilling
rig by torque applied to the kelly, which is screwed into the top of the drill stem. Increasingly,
drilling is performed using a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and
provides rotational force directly to the bit, rather than such force being supplied by the rotary
table. The use of a drilling motor permits the drilling contractor to drill directionally,
including horizontally. The Company sells and rents drilling motors, drill bits, downhole tools and
drill pipe through its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.

During drilling, heavy drilling fluids or “drilling muds” are pumped down the drill stem and forced
out through jets in the bit. The drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the
borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the drill cuttings drilled out by the bit. The
drill cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers,
centrifuges and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.
The solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive chemicals, to be
continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole.

Through its Rig Technology segment, the Company sells the large “mud pumps” that are used to pump
drilling mud through the drill stem. Through its Petroleum Services & Supplies business, the
Company sells transfer pumps and mud pump consumables; sells and rents solids control equipment;
and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. Many operators
internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from corrosive
fluids sometimes encountered during drilling, and inspect and assess the integrity of the drill
pipe from time to time. The Company provides drill pipe inspection and coating services, and
applies “hardbanding” material to drill pipe to improve its wear characteristics. These services
are provided through the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies segment. Additionally, the
Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies segment manufactures and sells drill pipe.

As the hole depth increases, the kelly must be removed frequently so that additional 30-foot joints
of drill pipe can be added to the drill stem. When the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the
bottom of the drill stem — including the drilling motors — otherwise requires servicing, the entire
drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drill pipe.
These are set aside or “racked,” the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill
stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called “tripping”). During drilling
and tripping operations, joints of drill pipe must be screwed together and tightened (“made up”),
and loosened and unscrewed (“spun out”). The Company’s Rig Technology business provides drilling
equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drill pipe in this manner. When the hole has reached
certain depths, all of the drill pipe is pulled out of the hole and larger diameter pipe known as
casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against
collapse and contamination of the hole. The casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into
the hole, a service the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies business provides. The Company’s
Rig Technology segment manufactures pressure pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in
place.

The raising and lowering of the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and the lowering of casing
into the wellbore, is accomplished with the rig’s hoisting system. A conventional hoisting system
is a block and tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig’s derrick. The lifting of this
mechanism is performed via a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of
the derrick. The Company’s Rig Technology segment sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting
systems. During the course of normal drilling
operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations, which exhibit varying
pressure characteristics. If this pressure is not contained, oil, gas and/or water would flow out
of these formations to the surface.





The operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various
sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig’s hook, the incidence of
pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, etc. Through its Rig Technology segment,
the Company sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring
functions.

During the drilling and completion of a well, there exists an ongoing need for various consumables
and spare parts. While most of these items are small, in the aggregate they represent an important
element of the process. Since it is impractical for each drilling location to have a full supply of
these items, drilling contractors and well service companies tend to rely on third parties to stock
and deliver these items. The Company provides this capability through its Distribution Services
segment, which stocks and sells spares and consumables made by third parties, as well as spares and
consumables made by the Company.

After the well has reached its total depth and the final section of casing has been set, the
drilling rig is moved off of the well and the well is prepared to begin producing oil or gas in a
process known as “well completion.” Well completion usually involves installing production tubing
concentrically in the casing. Due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production
tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by the Company’s Petroleum Services &
Supplies business. Sometimes operators choose to use corrosion resistant composite materials (which
the Company offers through its Petroleum Services & Supplies business), or corrosion-resistant
alloys, or operators sometimes pump fluids into wells to inhibit corrosion.

From time to time, a producing well may undergo workover procedures to extend its life and increase
its production rate. Workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other
completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. Workover
rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing, but are usually smaller
and somewhat less sophisticated. The Company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through
its Rig Technology segment. Tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation
operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, which is a
service the Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies business provides.

Frequently coiled tubing units or wireline units are used to accomplish certain well remediation
operations or well completions. Coiled tubing is a recent advancement in petroleum technology
consisting of a continuous length of reeled steel tubing which can be injected concentrically into
the production tubing all the way to the bottom of most wells. It permits many operations to be
performed without disassembling the production tubing, and without curtailing the production of the
well. Wireline winch units are devices that utilize single-strand or multi-strand wires to perform
well remediation operations, such as lowering tools and transmitting data to the surface. Through
the Rig Technology segment, the Company sells and rents various types of coiled tubing equipment,
and wireline equipment and tools. The Company also manufactures and sells coiled tubing pipe
through its Petroleum Services & Supplies segment.





Rig Technology

The Company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations in drilling and well servicing equipment
which improve the efficiency, safety, and cost of drilling and well servicing operations. The Rig
Technology segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of top drives, automated pipe
handling systems, motion compensation systems, rig controls, BOPs, handling tools, drawworks,
risers, rotary tables, mud pumps, cranes, drilling motors and other drilling equipment for both the
onshore and offshore markets. The Rig Technology segment also manufactures entire rig packages,
both drilling and workover, in addition to well servicing equipment such as coiled tubing units,
pressure pumping equipment, and wireline winches. The Rig Technology group sells directly to
drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig fabricators, well servicing companies, national oil
companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service
providers. The Rig Technology segment rents and sells proprietary drilling rig instrumentation
packages and control systems which monitor various processes throughout the drilling operation,
under the name MD®/Totco®(“Instrumentation”). Demand
for its products, several of which are described below, is strongly dependent upon capital spending
plans by oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling
activity.

Land Rig Packages. NOV designs, manufactures, assembles, upgrades, and supplies equipment sets
to a variety of land drilling rigs, including those specifically designed to operate in harsh
environments such as the Arctic Circle and the desert. Our key land rig product names include theDrake Rig, Ideal Rig™andRapid Rig®. NOV’s recent rig packages are designed
to be safer and fast moving, to utilize AC technology, and to reduce manpower required to operate a
rig.

Top Drives. The Top Drive Drilling System (“TDS”), originally introduced by NOV in 1982,
significantly alters the traditional drilling process. The TDS rotates the drill stem from its top,
rather than by the rotary table, with a large electric motor affixed to rails installed in the
derrick that traverses the length of the derrick to the rig floor. Therefore, the TDS eliminates
the use of the conventional rotary table for drilling. Components of the TDS also are used to
connect additional joints of drill pipe to the drill stem during drilling operations, enabling
drilling with three joints of drill pipe compared to traditionally drilling with one joint of drill
pipe. Additionally, the TDS facilitates horizontal and extended reach drilling.

Drilling Motors.NOV has helped lead the application of AC motor technology in the oilfield
industry. We are now transitioning from buying motors from third parties to building them in our
own facilities and further developing motor technology, including the introduction of permanent
magnet motor technology to the industry. These permanent magnet motors are being used in top
drives, cranes, mud pumps, winches, and drawworks.

Rotary Equipment. The alternative to using a TDS to rotate the drill stem is to use a rotary
table, which rotates the pipe at the floor of the rig. The Rig Technology group produces rotary
tables as well as kelly bushings and master bushings for most sizes of kellys and makes of rotary
tables. In 1998, NOV introduced the Rotary Support Table for use on rigs with a TDS. The Rotary
Support Table is used in concert with the TDS to completely eliminate the need for the larger
conventional rotary table.

Pipe Handling Systems. Pipe racking systems are used to handle drill pipe, casing and tubing on
a drilling rig. Vertical pipe racking systems move drill pipe and casing between the well and a
storage (“racking”) area on the rig floor. Horizontal racking systems are used to handle tubulars
while stored horizontally (for example, on the pipe deck of an offshore rig) and transport tubulars
up to the rig floor and into a vertical position for use in the drilling process.

Vertical pipe racking systems are used predominantly on offshore rigs and are found on almost all
floating rigs. Mechanical vertical pipe racking systems greatly reduce the manual effort involved
in pipe handling. Pipe racking systems, introduced by NOV in 1985, provide a fully automated
mechanism for handling and racking drill pipe during drilling and tripping operations, spinning and
torquing drill pipe, and automatic hoisting and racking of disconnected joints of drill pipe. These
functions can be integrated via computer controlled sequencing, and operated by a driller in an
environmentally secure cabin. An important element of this system is the Iron Roughneck, which was
originally introduced by NOV in 1976 and is an automated device that makes pipe connections on the
rig floor and requires less direct involvement of rig floor personnel in potentially dangerous
operations. The Automated Roughneck is an automated microprocessor-controlled version of the Iron
Roughneck.

Horizontal pipe transfer systems were introduced by NOV in 1993. They include the Pipe Deck Machine
(“PDM”), which is used to manipulate and move tubulars while stored in a horizontal position; the
Pipe Transfer Conveyor (“PTC”), which transports sections of pipe to the rig floor; and a Pickup
Laydown System (“PLS”), which raises the pipe to a vertical position for transfer to a vertical
racking system. These components may be employed separately, or incorporated together to form a
complete horizontal racking system, known as the Pipe Transfer System (“PTS”).





Pipe Handling Tools. The Company’s pipe handling tools are designed to enhance the safety,
efficiency and reliability of pipe handling operations. Many of these tools have provided
innovative methods of performing the designated task through mechanization of functions previously
performed manually. The Rig Technology group manufactures various tools used to grip, tochold,
raise, and lower pipe, and in the making up and breaking out of drill pipe, workstrings, casing and
production tubulars including spinning wrenches, manual tongs, torque wrenches and kelly spinners.

Mud Pumps.Mud pumps are high pressure pumps located on the rig that force drilling mud down the
drill pipe, through the drill bit, and up the space between the drill pipe and the drilled
formation (the “annulus”) back to the surface. These pumps, which generate pressures of up to 7,500
psi, must therefore be capable of displacing drilling fluids several thousand feet down and back up
the well bore. The conventional mud pump design, known as the triplex pump, uses three
reciprocating pistons oriented horizontally. Recently, NOV has introduced the HEX Pump, which uses
six pumping cylinders, versus the three used in the triplex pump. Along with other design features,
the greater number of cylinders reduces pulsations (or surges) and increases the output available
from a given footprint. Reduced pulsation is desirable where downhole measurement equipment is
being used during the drilling process, as is often the case in directional drilling.

Hoisting Systems. Hoisting systems are used to raise or lower the drill stem while drilling or
tripping, and to lower casing into the wellbore. The drawworks is the heart of the hoisting system.
It is a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line, which is in turn connected to
the drill stem at the top of the derrick. The drawworks also plays an important role in keeping the
weight on the drill bit at a desired level. This task is particularly challenging on offshore
drilling rigs, which are subject to wave motion. To address this, NOV has introduced the Active
Heave Drilling (“AHD”) Drawworks. The AHD Drawworks uses computer-controlled motors to compensate
for the motion experienced in offshore drilling operations.

Cranes.NOV provides a comprehensive range of crane solutions, with purpose-built products for all
segments of the oil and gas industry as well as many other markets. The Company encompasses a broad
collection of brand names with international recognition, and includes a large staff of engineers
specializing in the design of cranes and related equipment. The product range extends from small
cargo-handling cranes to the world’s largest marine cranes. In all, the Company provides over
twenty crane product lines that include standard model configurations as well as custom-engineered
and specialty cranes.

Motion Compensation Systems. Traditionally, motion compensation equipment is located on top of the
drilling rig and serves to stabilize the bit on the bottom of the hole, increasing drilling
effectiveness of floating offshore rigs by compensating for wave and wind action. The AHD
Drawworks, discussed above, was introduced to eliminate weight and improve safety, removing the
compensator from the top of the rig and integrating it into the drawworks system. In addition to
the AHD Drawworks, NOV has introduced an Active Heave Compensation (“AHC”) System that goes beyond
the capabilities of the AHD Drawworks to handle the most severe weather. Additionally, NOV
tensioning systems provide continuous axial tension to the marine riser pipe (larger diameter pipe
which connects floating drilling rigs to the well on the ocean floor) and guide lines on floating
drilling rigs, tension leg platforms and jack-up drilling rigs.

Blowout Preventers. BOPs are devices used to seal the space (“annulus”) between the drill pipe and
the borehole to prevent blowouts (uncontrolled flows of formation fluids and gases to the surface).
The Rig Technology group manufactures a wide array of BOPs used in various situations. Ram and
annular BOPs are back-up devices that are activated only if other techniques for controlling
pressure in the wellbore are inadequate. When closed, these devices prevent normal rig operations.
Ram BOPs seal the wellbore by hydraulically closing rams (thick heavy blocks of steel) against each
other across the wellbore. Specially designed packers seal around specific sizes of pipe in the
wellbore, shear pipe in the wellbore or close off an open hole. Annular BOPs seal the wellbore by
hydraulically closing a rubber packing unit around the drill pipe or kelly or by sealing against
itself if nothing is in the hole. NOV’s Pressure Control While Drilling (“PCWD”)®BOP, introduced in 1995, allows operators to drill at pressures up to 2,000 psi
without interrupting normal operations, and can act as a normal spherical BOP at pressures up to
5,000 psi.

In 1998, NOV introduced the NXT®ram type BOP which eliminates door bolts,
providing significant weight, rig-time, and space savings. Its unique features make subsea
operation more efficient through faster ram configuration changes without tripping the BOP stack.
In 2004, NOV introduced the LXT, which features many of the design elements of the NXT, but is
targeted at the land market. In 2005, the Company began commercializing technology related to a
continuous circulation device. This device enables drilling contractors to make and break drill
pipe connections without stopping the circulation of drilling fluids, which helps increase drilling
efficiency.

Derricks and Substructures.Drilling activities are carried out from a drilling rig. A drilling
rig consists of one or two derricks; the substructure that supports the derrick(s); and the rig
package, which consists of the various pieces of equipment discussed above. The Rig Technology
segment designs, fabricates and services derricks used in both onshore and offshore applications,
and substructures used in onshore applications. The Rig Technology group also works with shipyards
in the fabrication of substructures for offshore drilling rigs.





Instrumentation

®

Coiled Tubing Equipment. Coiled tubing consists of flexible steel tubing manufactured in a
continuous string and spooled on a reel. It can extend several thousand feet in length and is run
in and out of the wellbore at a high rate of speed by a hydraulically operated coiled tubing unit.
A coiled tubing unit is typically mounted on a truck, semi-trailer or skid (steel frames on which
portable tocequipment is mounted to facilitate handling with cranes for offshore use) and consists
of a hydraulically operated tubing reel or drum, an injector head which pushes or pulls the tubing
in or out of the wellbore, and various power and control systems. Coiled tubing is typically used
with sophisticated pressure control equipment which permits the operator to perform workover
operations on a live well. The Rig Technology group manufactures and sells both coiled tubing units
and the ancillary pressure control equipment used in these operations. Through its acquisition of
Rolligon in late 2006, the Company enhanced its portfolio by adding additional pressure pumping and
coiled tubing equipment products.

Currently, most coiled tubing units are used in well remediation and completion applications. The
Company believes that advances in the manufacturing process of coiled tubing, tubing fatigue
protection and the capability to manufacture larger diameter and increased wall thickness coiled
tubing strings have resulted in increased uses and applications for coiled tubing products. For
example, some well operators are now using coiled tubing in drilling applications such as slim hole
re-entries of existing wells. NOV engineered and manufactured the first coiled tubing units built
specifically for coiled tubing drilling in 1996.

Generally, the Rig Technology group supplies customers with the equipment and components necessary
to use coiled tubing, which the customers typically purchase separately. The group’s coiled tubing
product line consists of coiled tubing units, coiled tubing pressure control equipment, pressure
pumping equipment, snubbing units (which are units that force tubulars into a well when pressure is
contained within the wellbore), nitrogen pumping equipment and cementing, stimulation, fracturing
and blending equipment.

Wireline Equipment. NOV’s wireline products include wireline drum units, which consist of a
spool or drum of wireline cable, mounted in a mobile vehicle or skid, which works in conjunction
with a source of power (an engine mounted in the vehicle or within a separate “power pack” skid).
The wireline drum unit is used to spool wireline cable into or out of a well, in order to perform
surveys inside the well, sample fluids from the bottom of the well, retrieve or replace components
from inside the well, or to perform other well remediation or survey operations. The wireline used
may be “slick line”, which is conventional single-strand steel cable used to convey tools in or out
of the well, or “electric line”, which contains an imbedded single-conductor or multi-conductor
electrical line which permits communication between the surface and electronic instruments attached
to the end of the wireline at the bottom of the well.

Wireline units are usually used in conjunction with a variety of other pressure control equipment
which permit safe access into wells while they are flowing and under pressure at the surface. The
Company engineers and manufactures a broad range of pressure control equipment for wireline
operations, including wireline blowout preventers, strippers, packers, lubricators and grease
injection units. Additionally, the Company makes wireline rigging equipment such as mast trucks.

Facilities.The Company conducts Rig Technology manufacturing operations at major facilities in
Houston, Galena Park, Sugar Land, Conroe, Cedar Park, Anderson, Fort Worth and Pampa, Texas;
Duncan, Oklahoma; Orange, California; Edmonton, Canada; Aberdeen, Scotland; Kristiansand, and
Stavanger, Norway; Etten-Leur and Groot-Ammers, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Singapore;
Lanzhou and Shanghai, China; Jebel Ali, Dubai; and Ulsan, South Korea. For a more detailed listing
of significant facilities see Item 2. “Properties”. The Rig Technology group maintains sales and
service offices in most major oilfield markets, either directly or through agents.





Customers and Competition.The Rig Technology segment sells directly to drilling contractors, other
rig fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumping companies, national oil companies,
major and independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers.
Demand for its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies
and drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity.

The products of the Rig Technology group are sold in highly competitive markets and its sales and
earnings can be affected by competitive actions such as price changes, new product development, or
improved availability and delivery. The group’s primary competitors are Access Oil Tools; Aker
Solutions AS; American Block; Bomco; Canrig (a division of Nabors Industries); Cavins Oil Tools;
Cameron; DenCon Oil Tools; Forum Oilfield Technologies; General Electric; Hitec Drilling Products;
Hong Hua; Huisman; IDM; LTI (a division of Rowan Companies); M&I Electric; Tesco Corporation; Wirth
M&B GmbH; Stewart & Stevenson, Inc.; Crown Energy Technologies; Huntings, Ltd.; Vanoil; Parveen
Industries; and Weatherford International, Inc. Management believes that the principal competitive
factors affecting its Rig Technology business are performance, quality, reputation, customer
service, availability of products, spare parts, and consumables, breadth of product line and price.

Petroleum Services & Supplies

The Company provides a broad range of support equipment, spare parts, consumables and services
through the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment. The Petroleum Services & Supplies group sells
directly and provides a variety of tubular services, composite tubing, and coiled tubing to oil and
gas producers, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing companies, and tubular
processors, manufacturers and distributors. These include inspection and reclamation services for
drill pipe, casing, production tubing, sucker rods and line pipe at drilling and workover rig
locations, at yards owned by its customers, at steel mills and processing facilities that
manufacture tubular goods, and at facilities which it owns. The group also provides internal
coating of tubular goods at several coating plants worldwide and through licensees in certain
locations. Additionally, the Company designs, manufactures and sells high pressure fiberglass and
composite tubulars for use in corrosive applications and coiled tubing for use in well servicing
applications and connections for large diameter conductor pipe.

The Company’s customers rely on tubular inspection services to avoid failure of tubing, casing,
flowlines, pipelines and drill pipe. Such tubular failures are expensive and in some cases
catastrophic. The Company’s customers rely on internal coatings of tubular goods to prolong the
useful lives of tubulars and to increase the volumetric throughput of in-service tubular goods. The
Company’s customers sometimes use fiberglass or composite tubulars in lieu of conventional steel
tubulars, due to the corrosion-resistant properties of fiberglass and other composite materials.
Tubular inspection and coating services are used most frequently in operations in high-temperature,
deep, corrosive oil and gas environments. In selecting a provider of tubular inspection and tubular
coating services, oil and gas operators consider such factors as reputation, experience, technology
of products offered, reliability and price.

The Company’s Petroleum Services & Supplies group also provides products and services that are used
in the course of drilling oil and gas wells. The Downhole Tools business sells and rents bits,
drilling motors and specialized downhole tools that are incorporated into the drill stem during
drilling operations (“Downhole Tools”), and are also used during fishing, well intervention,
re-entry, and well completion operations. The Wellsite Services business provides products and
services such as drilling fluids, highly-engineered solids control equipment, waste handling and
treatment, completion fluids, power generation equipment, and other ancillary well site equipment
and services. Wellsite Services is also engaged in Barium Sulfate (“barite”) mining operations in
the State of Nevada. Barite is an inert powder material used as the primary weighting agent in
drilling fluids. Additionally, efficient separation of drill cuttings enables the re-use of often
costly drilling fluids. The Pumps & Expendables business provides centrifugal, reciprocating, and
progressing cavity pumps and pump expendables (“Pumps & Expendables”) into the global oil and gas
and industrial markets.

Solids Control and Waste Management. The Company is engaged in the provision of highly-engineered
equipment, products and services which separate and manage drill cuttings produced by the drilling
process (“Solids Control”). Drill cuttings are usually contaminated with petroleum or drilling
fluids, and must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.

Fluids Services.The Company acquired the Spirit group of companies in May 2009 (“Spirit”) and
Ambar in January 2010. Both are engaged in the provision of drilling fluids, completion fluids and
other related services. This division is also engaged in barite mining operations. Drilling
fluids are designed and used to maintain well bore stability while drilling, control downhole
pressure, drill bit lubrication, and as a drill cuttings displacement medium. Completion fluids
are used to clean the well bore and stimulate production.

Portable Power.The acquisition of Welch Sales and Service, Inc. in 2008 placed Wellsite Services
in the power generation and temperature control business. The Portable Power division provides
rental equipment for use in the upstream oil and gas industry, refinery and petrochemical,
construction, events, disaster relief and other industries.





Tubular Coating. The Company develops, manufactures and applies its proprietary tubular coatings,
known as Tube-Kote®coatings, to new and used tubulars. Tubular coatings help
prevent corrosion of tubulars by providing a tough plastic shield to isolate steel from corrosive
oilfield fluids such as CO2, H2S and brine. Delaying or
preventing corrosion extends the life of existing tubulars, reduces the frequency of well
remediation and reduces expensive interruptions in production. In addition, coatings are designed
to increase the fluid flow rate through tubulars by decreasing or eliminating paraffin and scale
build-up, which can reduce or block oil flow in producing wells. The smooth inner surfaces of
coated tubulars often increase the fluid through-put on certain high-rate oil and gas wells by
reducing friction and turbulence. The Company’s reputation for supplying quality internal coatings
is an important factor in its business, since the failure of coatings can lead to expensive
production delays and premature tubular failure. In 2005, NOV created a 60%-owned joint venture in
China with the Huabei Petroleum Administration Bureau, which coats Chinese produced drill pipe
using NOV’s proprietary coatings. In 2007, the joint venture opened a second coating plant in
Jiangyin City, China.

In addition to our TK®coatings, we also have complementary corrosion control products and services
including TK®Liners, TuboWrap™, and KC-IPC Connections. TK Liners are fiberglass-reinforced tubes
which are inserted into steel line pipe. This safeguards the pipe against corrosion and extends
the life of the pipeline. In conjunction with the Thru-Kote®connection system customers can weld
a sleeve for a continuous fiberglass lined pipeline. Tubo-Wrap™ is a high performance external
coating that protects the pipe during installation and from corrosion once the pipeline is in
place. KC-IPC Connections use a modified American Petroleum Institute (“API”) coupling to create a
“gas-tight” seal that prevents corrosion and turbulence in the critical connections of tubulars
while protecting the internal plastic coating at the highly loaded contact points.

Tubular Inspection.Newly manufactured pipe sometimes contains serious defects that are not
detected at the mill. In addition, pipe can be damaged in transit and during handling prior to use
at the well site. As a result, exploration and production companies often have new tubulars
inspected before they are placed in service to reduce the risk of tubular failures during drilling,
completion, or production of oil and gas wells. Used tubulars are inspected by the Company to
detect service-induced flaws after the tubulars are removed from operation. Used drill pipe and
used tubing inspection programs allow operators to replace defective lengths, thereby prolonging
the life of the remaining pipe and saving the customer the cost of unnecessary tubular replacements
and expenses related to tubular failures.

Tubular inspection services employ all major non-destructive inspection techniques, including
electromagnetic, ultrasonic, magnetic flux leakage and gamma ray. These inspection services are
provided both by mobile units which work at the wellhead as used tubing is removed from a well, and
at fixed site tubular inspection locations. The group provides an ultrasonic inspection service for
detecting potential fatigue cracks in the end area of used drill pipe, the portion of the pipe that
traditionally has been the most difficult to inspect. Tubular inspection facilities also offer a
wide range of related services, such as API thread inspection, ring and plug gauging, and a
complete line of reclamation services necessary to return tubulars to useful service, including
tubular cleaning and straightening, hydrostatic testing and re-threading.

In addition, the Company applies hardbanding material to drill pipe, to enhance its wear
characteristics and reduce downhole casing wear as a result of the drilling process. In 2002, the
Company introduced its proprietary line of hardbanding material, TCS — 8000ä. The
group also cleans, straightens, inspects and coats sucker rods at 11 facilities throughout the
Western Hemisphere. Additionally, new sucker rods are inspected before they are placed into
service, to avoid premature failure, which can cause the oil well operator to have to pull and
replace the sucker rod.

Machining Services.In 2005, we acquired Turner Oilfield Services and expanded our product
offering into thread repair, tool joint rebuilding and sub manufacturing. Since then we have made
strategic acquisitions of Hendershot and Mid-South and have expanded our machining services
internally to develop a “one-stop-shop” concept for our drill pipe customers. Thread repair
services include rotary shouldered and premium connections. We are licensed to perform thread
repair services for API and proprietary connections. Tool joint rebuilding is a unique process to
restore worn drill pipe tool joints, drill collars and heavy weight drill pipe to the original
specifications to extend the service life of those assets. We manufacture downhole tools and are
API licensed for this process in several locations.

In November 2009, we acquired South Seas Inspection (S) Pte. Ltd., (“SSI”) and certain assets of
its Brazilian affiliate. SSI provides a wide array of oilfield services including rig and derrick
construction, derrick inspection and maintenance, drops surveys and load testing at the rig through
the use of rope access technicians. This acquisition adds multiple new services and allows us to
grow this business by leveraging existing relationships and infrastructure. These operations are
based out of Singapore with branch offices in Baku, Azerbaijan and Aktau, Kazkhstan as well as a
representative office in Vietnam. The highly trained workforce is completely mobile and provides
these services worldwide.

Mill Systems and Sales.The Company engineers and fabricates inspection equipment for steel
mills, which it sells and rents. The equipment is used for quality control purposes to detect
defects in the pipe during the high-speed manufacturing process. Each piece of mill inspection
equipment is designed to customer specifications and is installed and serviced by the Company.





Drill Pipe Products.The Company manufactures and sells a variety of drill stem products used for
the drilling of oil and gas wells. The principal products sold by this segment are: (i) drill pipe,
(ii) drill collars and heavyweight drill pipe and (iii) drill stem accessories including tool
joints. Drill pipe is the principal tool, other than the rig, required for the drilling of an oil
or gas well. Its primary purpose is to connect the above-surface drilling rig to the drill bit. A
drilling rig will typically have an inventory of 10,000 to 30,000 feet of drill pipe depending on
the size and service requirements of the rig. Joints of drill pipe are connected to each other with
a welded-on tool joint to form what is commonly referred to as the drill string or drill stem.

When a drilling rig is operating, motors mounted on the rig rotate the drill pipe and drill bit. In
addition to connecting the drilling rig to the drill bit, drill pipe provides a mechanism to steer
the drill bit and serves as a conduit for drilling fluids and cuttings. Drill pipe is a capital
good that can be used for the drilling of multiple wells. Once a well is completed, the drill pipe
may be used again and again to drill other wells until the drill pipe becomes damaged or wears out.

In recent years, the depth and complexity of the wells our customers drill, as well as the
specifications and requirements of the drill pipe they purchase, have substantially increased. A
majority of the drill pipe we sell is required to meet specifications exceeding minimum API
standards. We offer a broad line of premium drilling products designed for the offshore,
international and domestic drilling markets. Our premium drilling products include our proprietary
lines of XT®and TurboTorqueTMconnections and large diameter drill pipe that delivers
hydraulic performance superior to standard sizes.

Drill collars are used in the drilling process to place weight on the drill bit for better control
and penetration. Drill collars are located directly above the drill bit and are manufactured from a
solid steel bar to provide necessary weight.

Heavyweight drill pipe is a thick-walled seamless tubular product that is less rigid than a drill
collar. Heavyweight drill pipe provides a gradual transition between the heavier drill collar and
the lighter drill pipe.

We also provide subs, pup joints (short and odd-sized tubular products) and other drill stem
accessories. These products all perform special functions within the drill string as part of the
drilling process.

NOV IntelliServ.NOV IntelliServ is a joint venture between the Company and Schlumberger, Ltd. in
which the Company holds a 55% interest and maintains operational control. NOV IntelliServ provides
wellbore data transmission services that enable high-speed communication up and down the drill
string throughout drilling and completion operations that are undertaken during the construction of
oil and gas wells. NOV IntelliServ’s core product, “The IntelliServ®Broadband Network”, was
commercialized in February 2006 and incorporates various proprietary mechanical and electrical
components into our premium drilling tubulars to enable data transmission rates that are currently
up to 20,000 times faster than mud pulse, the current industry standard. The IntelliServ®Broadband Network also permits virtually unlimited real-time actuation of drilling tools and
sensors at the bottom of the drill string, a process that conventionally requires the time
consuming return of tools to the surface. NOV IntelliServ offers its products and services on a
rental basis to oil and gas operators.

Voest-Alpine Tubulars (“VAT”). VAT is a joint venture between the Company and the Austrian based
Voestalpine Group. The Company has a 50.01% investment in the joint venture which is located in
Kindberg, Austria. VAT owns a tubular mill with an annual capacity of approximately 380,000 metric
tons and is the primary supplier of green tubes for our U.S. based production. In addition to
producing green tubes, VAT produces seamless tubular products for the OCTG market and non-OCTG
products used in the automotive, petrochemical, construction, mining, tunneling and transportation
industries.

Fiberglass & Composite Tubulars.When compared to conventional carbon steel and even
corrosion-resistant alloys, resin-impregnated fiberglass and other modern plastic composites often
exhibit superior resistance to corrosion. Some producers manage the corrosive fluids sometimes
found in oil and gas fields by utilizing composite or fiberglass tubing, casing and line pipe in
the operations of their fields. In 1997, the Company acquired Fiber Glass Systems, a leading
provider of high pressure fiberglass tubulars used in oilfield applications, to further serve the
tubular corrosion prevention needs of its customers. Fiber Glass Systems has manufactured
fiberglass pipe since 1968 under the name“Star®”,and was the first
manufacturer of high-pressure fiberglass pipe to be
licensed by the API in 1992. Through acquisitions and investments in technologies, the Company has
extended its fiberglass and composite tubing offering into industrial and marine applications, in
addition to its oilfield market.

Coiled Tubing.Coiled tubing provides a number of significant functional advantages over the
principal alternatives of conventional drill pipe and workover pipe. Coiled tubing allows faster
“tripping,” since the coiled tubing can be reeled quickly on and off a drum and in and out of a
wellbore. In addition, the small size of the coiled tubing unit compared to an average workover rig
or drilling rig reduces preparation time at the well site. Coiled tubing permits a variety of
workover and other operations to be performed without having to pull the existing production tubing
from the well and allows ease of operation in horizontal or highly deviated wells. Thus, operations
using coiled tubing can be performed much more quickly and, in many instances, at a significantly
lower cost. Finally, use of coiled tubing generally allows continuous production of the well,
eliminating the need to temporarily stop the flow of hydrocarbons. As a result, the economics of a
workover are improved because the well can continue to produce hydrocarbons and thus produce
revenues while the well treatments are occurring. Continuous production also reduces the risk of
formation damage which can





occur when the flow of fluids is stopped or isolated. Under normal operating conditions, the coiled
tubing string must be replaced every three to four months. NOV designs, manufactures, and sells
coiled tubing under the Quality Tubing brand name at its mill in Houston, Texas.

NOV Downhole.The NOV Downhole business unit combines a wide array of drilling and intervention
tool product lines with the drill bit, coring services, borehole enlargement and drilling
dynamics/drilling optimization service lines previously consolidated within the ReedHycalog
business unit of Grant Prideco.

The broad spectrum of bottom hole assembly (“BHA”) components offered by NOV Downhole is unique
within the industry and is the result of National Oilwell Varco’s strategic consolidation of
several key acquisitions, including: NQL Energy Services, Inc., a leading manufacturer and
provider of downhole drilling tools; Gammaloy Holdings, L.P., a manufacturer and provider of
non-magnetic drill collars and other related products; and the ReedHycalog, Corion, and Andergauge
business units of Grant Prideco, a global leader in the design, manufacture and provision of drill
bits, variable gauge stabilizers, hydraulically and mechanically actuated under-reamers, specialty
coring services and downhole vibration mitigation services.

NOV Downhole manufactures fixed cutter and roller cone drill bits and services its customer base
through a technical sales and marketing network in virtually every significant oil and gas
producing region of the world. It provides fixed-cutter bit technology under various brand names
including TReX®, Raptorä, SystemMatchedäand Rotary Steerable. One of its most
significant fixed cutter drill bit innovations is the TReX, Raptor, and Duraforce family of cutter
technologies which significantly increase abrasion resistance (wear life) without sacrificing
impact resistance (toughness). This technology provides a diamond surface that maintains a sharp,
low-wear cutting edge that produces drilling results that exceed conventional standards for
polycrystalline diamond (“PDC”) bit performance.

The Company produces roller-cone bits for a wide variety of oil and gas drilling applications.
Roller-cone bits consist of three rotating cones that have cutting teeth, which penetrate the
formation through a crushing action as the cones rotate in conjunction with the rotation of the
drill pipe. This cutting mechanism, while less efficient than fixed-cutter bits, is more versatile
in harder formations, or where the geology is changing. We manufacture roller-cone bits with milled
teeth and with tungsten carbide insert teeth, which have a longer life in harder formations. We
also manufacture a unique patented line of bits using a powder-metal forging technology sold under
the brand TuffCutterä. We market our roller-cone products and technology globally under
various brand names including RockForce™, Titan™ and TuffCutter™.

NOV Downhole designs, manufacturers and services a wide array of downhole motors used in straight
hole, directional, slim hole, and coiled tubing drilling applications. These motors are sold or
leased under the NOV Downhole brand name. The Company also maintains a wide variety of motor power
sections, including its proprietary PowerPlus™ and HemiDril™ rotors and stators which it
incorporates into its own motors as well as sells to third parties. Downhole drilling motors
utilize hydraulic horsepower from the drilling fluid pumped down the drill stem to develop torque
at the bit. Motors are capable of achieving higher rotary velocities than can generally be achieved
using conventional surface rotary equipment. Motors are often used in conjunction with high speed
PDC bits to improve rates of penetration.

The NOV Downhole group also manufactures and sells drilling jars and fishing tools, which are
marketed under the GriffithTMand Bowen®brand names.
Drilling jars are placed in the drill string, where they can be used to generate a sudden, jarring
motion to free the drill string should it become stuck in the wellbore during the drilling process.
This jarring motion is generated using hydraulic and/or mechanical force provided at the surface.
In the event that a portion of the drill string becomes stuck and cannot be jarred loose, fishing
tools are run into the wellbore on the end of the drill string to retrieve the portion that is
stuck.

Through its Coring Services business line, NOV Downhole offers coring solutions that enable the
extraction of actual rock samples from a drilled well bore and allow geologists to examine the
formations at the surface. One of the coring services utilized is NOV’s unique Corion Express®system which allows the customer to drill and core a well without tripping pipe. Corion Express
utilizes wireline retrievable drilling and coring elements which allow the system to transform from
a drilling assembly to a coring assembly and also to wireline retrieve the geological core. This
capability enables customers to save significant time and expense during the drilling and coring
process.

NOV Downhole offers a wide variety of industry leading technologies to enable customers to enlarge
the diameter of a drilled hole below a restriction (typically a casing string) via its Borehole
Enlargement business line. Borehole enlargement services are typically utilized in deep water
drilling where customers wish to maximize the size of each successive casing string in order to
preserve a relatively large completion hole size through which to produce hydrocarbons from the
reservoir. Borehole enlargement is also employed where customers wish to reduce the fluid velocity
and pressure within the well-bore annulus to reduce the risk of formation erosion or accidental
fracture. NOV Borehole Enlargement provides bi-centered drill bits, expandable reamers (marketed
under the AnderReamer™ brand name) and associated equipment along with well-site service
technicians who deliver 24 hour support during hole enlargement operations.





NOV Downhole offers drilling optimization services via its Advanced Drilling Solutions (“ADS”)
business line. ADS services incorporate various downhole vibration measurement and mitigation
tools along with dedicated, highly trained personnel who interpret such data and provide drilling
parameter guidance intended to improve drilling efficiency and reduce drilling risk.

Pumps & Expendables. The Company’s Pumps & Expendables business designs, manufactures, and sells
pumps that are used in oil and gas drilling operations, well service operations, production
applications, as well as industrial applications. These pumps include reciprocating positive
displacement and centrifugal pumps. High pressure mud pumps are sold within the Rig Technology
segment. These pumps are sold as individual units and unitized packages with drivers, controls and
piping. This group also manufactures fluid end expendables (liners, valves, pistons, and plungers),
fluid end modules and a complete line of dies and inserts for pipe handling. The group offers
popular industry brand names like Wheatley, Gaso, and Omega reciprocating pumps, acquired in 2000;
Halco Centrifugal Pumps, acquired in 2002; Petroleum Expendable Products (“PEP”), acquired in 1997;
and Phoenix Energy Products, acquired in 1998.

The group also manufactures a line of commodity and high end valves, chokes, and flow line
equipment used in both production and drilling applications. Additionally these products are used
in the fabrication of choke and kill standpipe, cement, and production manifolds. The group
manufactures its pump products in Houston, Odessa and Marble Falls, Texas; Tulsa and McAlester,
Oklahoma; Scott, Louisiana; Newcastle, England; Dehradun, India and Buenos Aires, Argentina.

XL Systems.Our XL System’s product line offers the customer an integrated package of large-bore
tubular products and services for offshore wells. This product line includes our proprietary line
of wedge thread marine connections on large-bore tubulars and related engineering and design
services. We provide this product line for drive pipe, jet strings and conductor casing. We also
offer weld-on connections and service personnel in connection with the installation of these
products. In early 2007, we completed development of our new high-strength Viper™ weld-on connector
that we believe will permit us to penetrate traditional markets that do not require the enhanced
performance of our proprietary wedge-thread design.

Customers and Competition.

The primary customers for drilling services offered by the Petroleum Services & Supplies group
include drilling contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas
companies, and national oil companies. Competitors in drilling services include Smith International
(“SWACO”); Baker Hughes Incorporated; Halliburton Company; Derrick Manufacturing Corp.; Fluid
Systems; Oil Tools Pte. Ltd; Peak Energy Services, Ltd.; Varel; United Diamond; Roper; Robbins &
Myers; Southwest Oilfield Products; and a number of regional competitors. The Petroleum Services &
Supplies group sells drilling services into highly competitive markets. Management believes that
on-site service is becoming an increasingly important competitive element in this market, and that
the principal competitive factors affecting the business are performance, quality, reputation,
customer service, product availability and technology, breadth of product line and price.





Distribution Services

The Distribution Services group is a market leader in the provision of supply chain management
services to drilling contractors and exploration and production companies around the world. Through
its network of over 200 Distribution Service Center locations worldwide, this group stocks and
sells a large line of oilfield products including consumable maintenance, repair and operating
supplies, valves, fittings, flanges and spare parts that are needed throughout the drilling,
completion and production process. The supplies and equipment stocked by our Distribution Service
Centers are customized to meet a wide variety of customer demands.

Distribution’s supply chain solutions for customers that choose to outsource the functions of
procurement, inventory & warehouse management, logistics, business process, and performance metrics
reporting generate a quarter of this group’s revenues. In this solution offering, they leverage the
flexible infrastructure of their SAP™ ERP system to streamline the acquisition process from
requisition to procurement to payment, by digitally managing approval routing & workflow, and by
providing robust reporting functionality.

NOV RigStore™ is a cutting-edge industry value offering by the Distribution Services group whereby
they provide the installation, staffing and management of supply stores on offshore drilling rigs.
With the NOV RigStore™ business model, Distribution Services installs its own ERP system onboard in
order to access and leverage Distribution’s global inventory, hundreds of support locations, and
thousands of vendors across multiple product lines. This business model relieves the average
offshore drilling rig’s balance sheet by providing improved accounting of these expense items,
lower capital costs, extended payment on part of the driller until the item is actually issued from
the onboard supply store, and removed risk of ownership from the customer. Whether it is a smaller,
new drilling contractor or larger, established drilling company the benefits of effective supply
chain management and reduced total cost of ownership are substantial.

Distribution Services also now provides unique one-stop-shop value propositions in the Exploration
and Production market in key areas of artificial lift, measurement & controls, valving & actuation,
and flow optimization. Through focused effort, they have built expertise in providing applications
engineering, systems & parts integration, optimization solutions, and after-sales service & support
in the aforementioned areas. Distribution Services is rapidly diversifying by adding new artificial
lift technologies, as well as measurement & controls competencies to become the biggest global
provider of equipment and services in the E&P space.

Approximately 70% of the Distribution Services group’s sales in 2009 were in the United States and
Canada. The remainder comes from key international markets in Latin America, the North Sea, Middle
East, Africa and the Far East. The Distribution Services group has now expanded into oilfields in
over 20 countries. Approximately 23% of Distribution Services revenues are from the resale of
goods manufactured by other segments within the Company and the balance are sales of goods
manufactured by third parties.

The group works to strategically increase its revenue and enhance its alliances with customers by
continuous expansion of product and service solutions and creation of differentiating value
propositions. Additionally the group leverages its extensive purchasing power to reduce the cost of
the goods. The group is strategically expanding its sourcing network into low cost countries
globally.

Customers and Competition.The primary customers for Distribution Services include drilling
contractors, well servicing companies, major and independent oil and gas companies, and national
oil companies. Competitors in Distribution Services include Wilson Supply (a division of Smith
International), CE Franklin, McJunkin Red Man, and a number of regional competitors.





2009 Acquisitions and Other Investments

In 2009, the Company made the following acquisitions and outside investments:

AcquisitionFormOperating SegmentDate of TransactionASEP Group Holding B.V.StockRig TechnologyApril 2009ANS (1001) Ltd. (“Anson”)StockPetroleum Services
& SuppliesApril 2009Spirit Drilling Fluids Ltd.AssetPetroleum Services
& SuppliesMay 2009Spirit Minerals L.P.AssetPetroleum Services
& SuppliesMay 2009Rincon de los Sauces Inspection
OperationAssetPetroleum Services
& SuppliesJune 2009Western ThunderhorseAssetPetroleum Services
& SuppliesSeptember 2009South Seas InspectionStockPetroleum Services
& SuppliesNovember 2009Hochang Machinery Industries Co., Ltd.StockRig TechnologyDecember 2009Stork MSWStockPetroleum Services
& SuppliesDecember 2009

The Company paid an aggregate purchase price of $573 million, net of cash acquired for acquisitions
and outside investments in 2009. In September 2009, the Company sold 45 percent of certain of its
IntelliServ operations and created the IntelliServ Joint Venture (“IntelliServ”). IntelliServ
provides drilling technology that enables downhole drilling conditions to be measured, evaluated
and monitored.

Seasonal Nature of the Company’s Business

Historically, the level of some of the Company’s businesses has followed seasonal trends to some
degree. In general the Rig Technology group has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuation
although orders for new equipment may be modestly affected by holiday schedules. There can be no
guarantee that seasonal effects will not influence future sales in this segment.

In Canada, the Petroleum Services & Supplies segment has typically realized high first quarter
activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling
and production areas. In past years, certain Canadian businesses within Petroleum Services &
Supplies and Distribution Services have declined during the second quarter due to warming weather
conditions which resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites, and road
bans that curtailed drilling activity (“Canadian Breakup”). However, these businesses have
typically rebounded in the third and fourth quarter. Petroleum Services & Supplies activity in both
the U.S. and Canada sometimes increases during the third quarter and then peaks in the fourth
quarter as operators spend the remaining drilling and/or production capital budgets for that year.
Petroleum Services & Supplies revenues in the Rocky Mountain region sometimes decline in the late
fourth quarter or early first quarter due to harsh winter weather. The segment’s fiberglass and
composite tubulars business in China has typically declined in the first quarter due to the impact
of weather on manufacturing and installation operations, and due to business slowdowns associated
with the Chinese New Year.

The Company anticipates that the seasonal trends described above will continue. However, there can
be no guarantee that spending by the Company’s customers will continue to follow patterns seen in
the past or that spending by other customers will remain the same as in prior years.

Marketing & Distribution Network

Substantially all of our Rig Technology capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large
portion of our smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through our direct sales force and
distribution service centers. Sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through agent
or representative arrangements. Products within our Petroleum Service & Supplies segment are rented
and sold worldwide through our own sales force and through commissioned representatives.
Distribution Services sales are made directly through our network of distribution service centers.

The Rig Technology segment’s customers include drilling contractors, shipyards and other rig
fabricators, well servicing companies, pressure pumpers, national oil companies, major and
independent oil and gas companies, supply stores, and pipe-running service providers. Demand for
its products is strongly dependent upon capital spending plans by oil and gas companies and
drilling contractors, and the level of oil and gas well drilling activity. Rig Technology purchases
can represent significant capital expenditures, and are often sold as part of a rig fabrication or
major rig refurbishment package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the
Company bids jointly with other related product and services providers, such as rig fabrication
yards and rig design firms.The Petroleum Services & Supplies group’s customers for tubular services include major and
independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, oilfield equipment and product
distributors and manufacturers, drilling and workover contractors, oilfield service companies,
pressure pumpers, pipeline operators, pipe mills, manufacturers and processors, and other
industrial companies.
Certain tubular inspection and tubular coating products and services often are incorporated as a
part of a tubular package sold by tubular supply stores to end users. The Company primarily has
direct operations in the international marketplace, but operates through agents in certain markets.





The Petroleum Services & Supplies group’s customers for drilling services are predominantly major
and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, drilling contractors, well servicing
companies, providers of drilling fluids, and other oilfield service companies. This group operates
sales and distribution facilities at strategic locations worldwide to service areas with high
drilling activity. Strategically located service and engineering facilities provide specialty
repair and maintenance services to customers. Sales of capital equipment are sometimes made through
rig fabricators, and often are bid as part of a rig fabrication package or rig refurbishment
package. Sometimes these packages cover multiple rigs, and often the Company bids jointly with
other related service providers.

Distribution Services sales are made through our network of distribution service centers. Customers
for our products and services include drilling and other service contractors, exploration and
production companies, supply companies and nationally owned or controlled drilling and production
companies.

Research and New Product Development and Intellectual Property

The Company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment
to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales
and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved
products. Through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the Company has
assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service
marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights.

As of December 31, 2009, the Company held a substantial number of United States patents and had
several patent applications pending. Expiration dates of such patents range from 2010 to 2027. As
of this date, the Company also had foreign patents and patent applications pending relating to
inventions covered by the United States patents. Additionally, the Company maintains a substantial
number of trade and service marks and maintains a number of trade secrets.

Although the Company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with
different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. The Company considers
the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers and the
technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in
its ability to compete. While the Company stresses the importance of its research and development
programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and
successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the Company
will realize future revenues from new products.





Engineering and Manufacturing

The manufacturing processes for the Company’s products generally consist of machining, welding and
fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components and testing. Most
equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel, and the availability and price of alloy steel
castings, forgings, purchased components and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of
shipments. Primary manufacturing facilities for the Rig Technology segment are located in Houston,
Galena Park, Sugar Land, Conroe, Cedar Park, Anderson, Fort Worth and Pampa, Texas; Duncan,
Oklahoma; Orange, California; Edmonton, Canada; Aberdeen, Scotland; Kristiansand, and Stavanger,
Norway; Etten-Leur and Groot-Ammers, the Netherlands; Carquefou, France; Singapore; Lanzhou and
Shanghai, China; Jebel Ali, Dubai; and Ulsan, South Korea.

Raw Materials

Backlog

The Company monitors its backlog of orders within its Rig Technology segment to guide its planning.
Backlog includes orders greater than $250,000 for most items and orders for wireline units in
excess of $75,000, and which require more than three months to manufacture and deliver.

Backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders which are firm, but may be defaulted
upon by the customer in some instances. Most require reimbursement to the Company for costs
incurred in such an event. There can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be
realized as revenue, or that the Company will earn a profit on backlog work. Our backlog for
equipment at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $6.4 billion, $11.1 billion and $9.0 billion,
respectively.

Employees

At December 31, 2009, the Company had a total of 36,802 employees, of which 4,379 were temporary
employees. Approximately 104 employees in the Company’s fiberglass tubulars plant in Little Rock,
Arkansas, and 110 employees of the Company’s downhole tools product line in Houston and Conroe,
Texas, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Additionally, certain of the Company’s
employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements.







