
10-K
FORM 10-K


                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                 Form 10-K
                               ANNUAL REPORT

        PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                        ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993      Commission file number 1-6571



                           SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION

Incorporated in New Jersey                        22-1918501
  One Giralda Farms                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
Madison, New Jersey 07940-1000                    201-822-7000
                                               (telephone number)

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             Name of each exchange         
 Title of each class                           on which registered

Common Shares, $1 par value                 New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights*            New York Stock Exchange

*At the time of filing, the Rights were not traded separately from the Common 
Shares.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all reports required to 
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and has been 
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.
YES_X__   NO____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive 
proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.__X_

Common shares outstanding as of January 31, 1994:      193,606,197

Aggregate market value of common shares at January 31, 1994 held by 
non-affiliates based on
closing price: $12.1 billion.

       Documents incorporated                            Part of Form 10-K
        by reference                                     incorporated into

Schering-Plough Corporation 1993
Annual Report to Shareholders                            Parts I, II, and IV

Schering-Plough Corporation Proxy
Statement for the annual meeting of
shareholders on April 26, 1994                           Part III
  
                                    Part I

Item 1.  Business

General

Schering-Plough*, incorporated in 1970, is a worldwide company engaged in
the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical
and health care products.  Products include prescription drugs, vision
care, animal health, over-the-counter (OTC), foot care and sun care
products.


Business Segment and Other Financial Information

The "Business Segment Data" as set forth in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.

Sales by major product groups for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1993 were as follows (dollars in millions):


                                      1993      1992      1991         

    Respiratory                      $1,185    $1,063    $  986      
    Anti-infective and Anticancer     1,032       906       629      
    Dermatologicals                     443       451       416      
    Cardiovasculars                     316       267       238      
    Other Pharmaceuticals               399       405       345      
    OTC                                 312       346       376  
    Foot Care                           240       214       218 
    Animal Health                       154       157       141 
    Sun Care                            131       117       113      
    Vision Care                         112       111       140
    Other Health Care Products           17        19        14      

       Consolidated Sales            $4,341    $4,056    $3,616      
                                                            


Pharmaceutical Products

The Company's pharmaceutical operations include prescription drugs,
vision care products and animal health products.  Principal prescription
products include:  CELESTAMINE, CLARITIN, POLARAMINE, PROVENTIL, THEO-
DUR, TRINALIN, VANCENASE and VANCERIL, respiratory;  CEDAX, EULEXIN,
GARAMYCIN, INTRON A, ISEPACIN and NETROMYCIN, anti-infective and
anticancer; DIPROLENE, DIPROSONE, ELOCON, FULVICIN, LOTRIMIN, LOTRISONE,
QUADRIDERM and VALISONE, dermatologicals; K-DUR, NITRO-DUR and NORMODYNE,
cardiovascular; CELESTONE, DIPROSPAN, LOSEC, NOIN, PALACOS and TRILAFON,
other pharmaceuticals. 

*  As used herein, the term "Schering-Plough" or "Company" refers to
   Schering-Plough Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries 
   unless the context indicates otherwise.
Item 1.   Business (continued)

The Company's major vision care product line is contact lenses sold under
the DURASOFT trademark.  The leading product within the DURASOFT line is
DURASOFT Colors, a soft lens that can alter the appearance of eye color.
Also, in early 1994 the Company received marketing clearance from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for its  FRESHLOOK line of disposable
contact lenses.  Animal health biological and pharmaceutical products
include antibiotics, vaccines, anti-arthritics, steroids and
nutritionals.  Major animal health products are:  GENTOCIN and GARASOL,
antibiotics, and BANAMINE, an anti-arthritic.

Pharmaceutical products also include pharmaceutical chemical substances
sold in bulk to third parties for production of their own products.  

Prescription drugs are introduced and made known to physicians,
pharmacists, hospitals and managed care organizations by trained
professional service representatives, and are sold to hospitals, managed
care organizations and wholesale and retail druggists.  Pharmaceutical
products are also promoted through journal advertising, direct mail
advertising and by distributing samples to physicians.  Vision care
products are promoted and sold by a separate sales force to practitioners
and retail outlets.  Animal health products are promoted and sold by a
separate sales force to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.

To meet the anticipated worldwide need for its biotechnology-based
pharmaceutical compounds, the Company is expanding its manufacturing
facility in Brinny, Ireland.  The total cost of the expansion is 
expected to be approximately $160 million.  The Company is also expanding
its Rathdrum, Ireland manufacturing operation to meet increasing demands. 
The overall cost of this project is expected to approximate $78 million.

The Company's subsidiaries own (or have licensed rights under) a number
of patents and patent applications, both in the United States and abroad. 
In the aggregate, patents and patent applications are believed to be of
material importance to the operations of the pharmaceutical segment.  In
December 1989, the U.S. patent covering PROVENTIL, an asthma product,
expired.  The PROVENTIL formulations of the tablet, syrup and solution
have been subject to generic competition.  In January 1994, the Food and
Drug Administration issued bioequivalence standards for generic albuterol
metered dose inhalers, which may result in generic inhaler entries late
in 1994.  The introduction of a generic inhaler will negatively affect
the sales and profitability of PROVENTIL.  

Raw materials essential to this segment are available in adequate
quantities from a number of potential suppliers.  Energy was and is
expected to be available to the Company in sufficient quantities to meet
operating requirements.

Worldwide, the Company's pharmaceutical products are sold under
trademarks.  Trademarks are considered in the aggregate to be of material
importance to the pharmaceutical business and are protected by
registration or common law in the United States and most other markets
where the products are sold or likely to be sold.


Item 1.  Business (continued)

Seasonal patterns do not have a pronounced effect on the combined
activities of this industry segment.

There is generally no significant backlog of orders since the Company's
business is normally conducted on an immediate shipment basis.

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and includes other
large companies with substantial resources for research, product
development and promotion.  There are numerous domestic and international
competitors in this industry.  Some of the principal competitive
techniques used by the Company for its pharmaceutical products include
research and development of new and improved products, product quality,
varied dosage forms and strengths, and educational services for the
medical community.

Health Care Products

The principal product categories in the health care segment are the
Company's over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, foot care and sun care
products primarily sold in the United States.  Principal products
include:  AFRIN and DURATION nasal decongestants; CHLOR-TRIMETON
antihistamine; CORICIDIN and DRIXORAL cold and decongestant tablets;
CORRECTOL laxative; CLEAR AWAY and DUO BRAND wart remover; DI-GEL
antacid; GYNE-LOTRIMIN and FEMCARE for vaginal yeast infections; DR.
SCHOLL'S foot care products; LOTRIMIN AF and TINACTIN antifungals;
COPPERTONE, QT, SHADE, SOLARCAINE and TROPICAL BLEND sun care products; A
and D ointment; and PAAS egg coloring and holiday products.  Business in
this segment is conducted through wholesale and retail drug, food chain
and variety outlets, and is promoted directly to the consumer through
television, radio, print and other advertising media.

Raw materials essential to this segment are available in adequate
quantities from a number of potential suppliers.  Energy was and is
expected to be available to the Company in sufficient quantities to meet
operating requirements.

Trademarks for the major products included in this segment are registered
in the United States and most overseas countries where these products are
marketed.  Trademarks are considered to be vital to the operations of
this segment.

Principally due to the seasonal sales of sun care products, operating
profits in this segment are relatively higher in the first half of the
year.

There is generally no significant backlog of orders since the Company's
business is normally conducted on an immediate shipment basis.

The health care products' industry is highly competitive and includes
other large companies with substantial resources for product development
and promotion.  There are several dozen significant competitors in this
industry.  The Company believes that in the United 
Item 1.  Business (continued)

States it has a leading position in the foot care and sun care
industries, with its DR. SCHOLL'S lines of foot pads, cushions, wart
removal and other treatments and its brands of sun care products.  In
addition, the Company's brands are among the leaders in nasal sprays,
laxatives, antifungals and vaginal yeast infection treatments sold OTC. 
The principal competitive techniques used by the Company in this industry
segment include switching prescription products to OTC medicines, the
development and introduction of new and improved products, and product
promotion methods to gain and retain consumer acceptance.

Foreign Operations

Foreign activities are carried out primarily through wholly-owned
subsidiaries wherever market potential is adequate and circumstances
permit.  In addition, the Company is represented in some markets through
joint ventures, licensees or other distribution arrangements.  There are
approximately 11,200 employees outside the United States. 

Foreign operations are subject to certain risks which are inherent in
conducting business overseas.  These risks include possible national-
ization, expropriation, importation limitations and other restrictive
governmental actions.  Also, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates can significantly impact the Company's consolidated financial
results.  For additional information on foreign operations, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial
Condition" and "Business Segment Data" in the Company's 1993 Annual
Report to Shareholders which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Operations in Puerto Rico

The Company has operations in Puerto Rico that manufacture products for
distribution to both domestic and foreign markets.  These businesses
operate under tax-relief and other incentives granted by the government
of Puerto Rico that expire at various dates through 2018.  

The Company has also been exempt from U.S. tax on certain income derived
from its operations in Puerto Rico.  The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1993 will phase down this exemption over the next five years to 40
percent of the pre-amendment level.  The Company will be partially
impacted by this change in 1994.

Under present U.S. tax laws, accumulated funds generated from operations
in Puerto Rico can be remitted tax-free to the parent company.  Under
recently revised Puerto Rico tax laws, remittance of these funds, with
the exception of certain amounts qualifying for tax free distribution,
will result in a tollgate tax of from 5 percent to 10 percent based upon
prescribed dividend and investment restrictions.  
For additional information relating to the Puerto Rico operations, see 
"Income Taxes" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Company's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated herein
by reference.




Item 1. Business (continued)
 Research and Development

The Company's research activities are primarily aimed at discovering and
developing new and enhanced pharmaceutical products of medical and 
commercial significance.  Company sponsored research and development
expenditures were $577.6 million, $521.5 million and $425.9 million in
1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.  Research expenditures represented
approximately 13 percent of consolidated sales in 1993 and 1992 and 12
percent in 1991.

The Company's pharmaceutical research activities are concentrated in the
therapeutic areas of allergic and inflammatory disorders, infectious and
cardiovascular diseases, oncology and central nervous system disorders. 
The Company also has substantial efforts directed toward biotechnology
and immunology.  

While several pharmaceutical compounds are in varying stages of
development, it cannot be predicted when or if products will become
available for commercial sale.

Government Regulation

Most products manufactured or sold by the Company are subject to varying
degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations
are conducted.  In the United States, the drug industry has long been
subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies,
primarily as to product safety, efficacy, advertising and labeling. 
Compliance with the broad regulatory powers of the Food and Drug
Administration (the "FDA") requires significant amounts of Company time,
testing and documentation, and corresponding costs to obtain clearance of
new drugs.  Similar product regulations also apply in many international
markets.

In the United States, many of the Company's pharmaceutical products are
subject to competitive pricing as managed care groups, institutions and
the government seek price discounts.  President Clinton's health care
reform proposal includes several measures that, if enacted, will have an
impact on operations of the Company.  These measures include, but are not
limited to, the requirement of all health plans to offer prescription
drug coverage, the extension of Medicare coverage to include outpatient
drugs, and rebates on Medicare sales.  In addition, prices of new drugs
would be reviewed with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, who
would be empowered to deny Medicare reimbursement for those drugs deemed
too expensive.

In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of
government-mandated cost containment programs.  In addition, several
markets have enacted across-the-board price reductions or directly
control selling prices as a further method of cost control.  Currently, a
number of other international markets are reviewing the implementation of
additional programs to contain health care costs.

For additional information on prescription drug pricing, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial
Condition" in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.

  
Item 1.  Business (continued)

The Company has and will continue to comply with the government
regulations of the countries in which operations are conducted.

Environment

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental 
protection laws has not had a materially adverse effect on the Company. 
The Company has and will continue to make necessary expenditures for
environmental protection.  Worldwide capital expenditures during 1993
included approximately $31.7 million for environmental control purposes. 
It is anticipated that continued compliance with such environmental
regulations will not significantly affect the Company's financial
condition, results of operations or its competitive position.  For
additional information on environmental matters, see "Legal and
Environmental Matters" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

There were approximately 21,600 people employed by the Company at
December 31, 1993.

Item 2.  Properties

The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Madison, New Jersey. 
Principal manufacturing facilities are located in Kenilworth and Union,
New Jersey, Des Plaines, Illinois, Miami, Florida, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, France,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico and Spain (pharmaceutical products);
Cleveland and Memphis, Tennessee (health care products).  The Company's
principal research facilities are located in Kenilworth and Union, New
Jersey and Palo Alto, California (DNAX Research Institute).

The major portion of properties is owned by the Company.  These
properties are maintained in good operating condition, and the
manufacturing plants have capacities considered appropriate to meet the
Company's needs.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Schering Corporation and White Laboratories, Inc., which are Company
subsidiaries, are defendants in approximately 95 lawsuits, involving
approximately 140 plaintiffs, arising out of the use of synthetic
estrogens by the mothers of the plaintiffs. In many of these lawsuits, a
substantial number of other drug companies are also defendants.  The
female plaintiffs claim various injuries, including cancerous or
precancerous lesions of the vagina and cervix and a multiplicity of
pregnancy problems.  A number of suits involve infants with birth defects
born to daughters whose mothers took the drug.  The total amount claimed
against all defendants in all the suits amounts to approximately $750
million.  While it is not possible to precisely predict the outcome of
these proceedings, it is management's opinion that the ultimate
liability, if any, will not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.




Item 3.  Legal Proceedings (continued)

The Company has been named as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by
the government under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund.  The Company
is also a party to a number of proceedings brought under Superfund. 
These proceedings seek to require the owners or operators of facilities
that treated, stored or disposed of hazardous substances and transporters
and generators of such substances to clean up contaminated facilities or
reimburse the government for its clean up costs.  The Company has been
named a PRP or a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of
hazardous substances found at certain facilities.  In each proceeding,
the government or private litigants allege that the Company is jointly
and severally liable for clean up costs.  Although joint and several
liability is alleged, a company's share of clean up costs is frequently
determined on the basis of the type and quantity of hazardous substances
sent to a facility by the generator.  However, this allocation process
varies greatly from facility to facility and can take years to complete. 
The Company's potential share of clean up costs also depends on how many
other parties are involved in the proceedings, insurance coverage,
available indemnity contracts and contribution rights against other
parties.  While it is not feasible to predict or determine the outcome of
these proceedings, in the opinion of management, such proceedings should
not ultimately result in a liability which would have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

The Company is a defendant in approximately sixty antitrust lawsuits
filed in several states and federal courts, including California,
Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Minnesota, New York, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina and Texas.  More than fifty of these are class action lawsuits. 
These actions were commenced in the second half of 1993 and in 1994 by
independent and chain pharmacies against the Company and other
pharmaceutical manufacturers, and in some instances, wholesalers and mail
order pharmacies, alleging (1) conspiracy to restrain trade by jointly
refusing to sell pharmaceuticals at discounted prices to plaintiffs,
and/or (2) price discrimination.  The federal cases have all been
consolidated in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois for pretrial and discovery purposes.  Plaintiffs
seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction against
the allegedly unlawful conduct.  The Company has not conspired to
restrain trade and believes that its pricing practices have been and are
in compliance with the law.  The Company will defend itself vigorously
against the claims in all these actions.  While it is not feasible to
predict or determine the outcome of these actions, management believes
that such actions should not result in any liability which would have a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position
or results of operations.  

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.
Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following information regarding executive officers is included
herein in accordance with Part III, Item 10.

Officers are elected to serve for one year and until their successors
shall have been duly elected.

 

Name and Current Position        Business Experience                 Age

Robert P. Luciano                Present position 1986                60
  Chairman and                                                 
  Chief Executive Officer                          
                         
Richard J. Kogan                 Present position 1986                52
  President and                                                  
  Chief Operating Officer                              

David E. Collins                 Present position 1989; President     59
  Executive Vice President       and Chief Operating Officer - Galen
  and President                  Associates, Inc. 1988-1989       
  Schering-Plough                                                
  HealthCare Products                                              
                                                     
Donald R. Conklin                Present position 1989; Executive     57
  Executive Vice President       Vice President - Pharmaceutical
  and President                  Operations 1987-1989        
  Schering-Plough                                               
  Pharmaceuticals                                    

Hugh A. D'Andrade                Present position 1984                55
  Executive Vice President
  Administration

Harold R. Hiser, Jr.             Present position 1986                62
  Executive Vice President                                        
  Finance

Joseph C. Connors                Present position 1992; Vice          45
  Senior Vice President          President and General Counsel
  and General Counsel            1991; Staff Vice President and
                                 Deputy General Counsel 1987-1991          

Allan S. Kushen                  Present position 1981                64
  Senior Vice President 
  Public Affairs       

Daniel A. Nichols                Present position 1991; Vice          53
  Senior Vice President          President Taxes 1983-1991
  Taxes


Executive Officers of the Registrant (continued)



Name and Current Position          Business Experience                Age

Gordon C. O'Brien                  Present position 1988               53
  Senior Vice President                                             
  Human Resources                                                 
                                            
J. Martin Comey                    Present position 1991; Vice         59
  Vice President                   President and Treasurer
  Administration and Business      1979-1990
  Development

John T. Fogarty                    Present position 1990; Staff        64 
  Vice President, Secretary        Vice President and Secretary
  and Associate General Counsel    1980-1989

Geraldine U. Foster                Present position 1988               51
  Vice President                     
  Investor Relations               

Domenic Guastadisegni              Present position 1990; Staff        63
  Vice President                   Vice President - Corporate Audits
  Corporate Audits                 1980-1989

Thomas H. Kelly                    Present position 1991; Partner,     44
  Vice President and               Deloitte & Touche 1982-1990
  Controller

Robert S. Lyons                    Present Position 1991;  Staff       53
  Vice President                   Vice President - Corporate
  Corporate Information            Information Services 1988-1990 
  Services                                                           
                                                                     
Jack L. Wyszomierski               Present position 1991; Staff        38 
  Vice President and               Vice President - Planning
  Treasurer                        and Business Development  
                                   1987-1990

                                       Part II

Item 5.Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
       Matters

The Common Share Dividends and Market Data as set forth in the Company's
1993 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.Selected Financial Data

The Six-Year Selected Financial and Statistical Data as set forth in the
Company's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial
Condition as set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the
related Statements of Consolidated Income, Consolidated Retained Earnings
and Consolidated Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1993, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Independent Auditors' Report of Deloitte & Touche and Quarterly Results
of Operations, as set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to
Shareholders, are incorporated  herein by reference.

Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.
                                     Part III

Item 10.Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information concerning directors and nominees for directors as set
forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of share-
holders on April 26, 1994 is incorporated herein by reference.

Information required as to executive officers is included in Part I of
this filing under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

Item 11.Executive Compensation

Executive compensation information as set forth in the Company's Proxy
Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 26, 1994 is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the
annual meeting of shareholders on April 26, 1994 is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions as
set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of
shareholders on April 26, 1994 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                   Part IV

Item 14.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1.Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements and independent auditors'
report, included in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, are
incorporated herein by reference.

Statements of Consolidated Income for the
            Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 

          Statements of Consolidated Retained Earnings for 
            the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

          Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the Years 
            Ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

          Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992 

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
                                                                 
          Independent Auditors' Report 

(a) 2.Financial Statement Schedules
                                                                Page in
                                                               Form 10-K

Independent Auditors' Report . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
         
         Schedule I - Marketable Securities - Other 
           Investments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     19

         Schedule V - Property, Plant and Equipment . . . . .     20

         Schedule VI - Accumulated Depreciation of
           Property, Plant and Equipment. . . . . . . . . . .     21

         Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. .     22

         Schedule IX - Short-term Borrowings. . . . . . . . .     23

         Schedule X - Supplementary Income Statement
           Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24

Item 14. (continued)

(a) 2.Financial Statement Schedules (continued)

Schedules not included have been omitted because they are not applicable
or not required or because the required information is set forth in the
financial statements or the notes thereto.  Columns omitted from
schedules filed have been omitted because the information is not
applicable.

Financial statements of fifty percent or less owned companies accounted
for by the equity method have been omitted because, considered
individually or in the aggregate, they do not constitute a significant
subsidiary.

(a) 3. Exhibits

Exhibit                                                Method
  Number                   Description                  of Filing

  3(a)         A complete copy of the Certificate   Incorporated by
               of Incorporation as amended and      reference to Exhibit
               currently in effect.                 3(a) to the Company's
                                                    Annual Report for 1989  
                                                     on Form 10-K

  3(b)         A complete copy of the By-Laws       Incorporated by         
                as amended and currently in effect.  reference to Exhibit   
                                                      4(b) to the Company's 
                                                       Form S-8 (No. 33-    
                                                      19013) 

  4(a)         Rights Agreement between the         Incorporated by         
                Company and The Bank of New York     reference to Exhibit 4 
                 dated July 25, 1989.                 to the Company's      
                                                       Quarterly Report for 
                                                     the period ended       
                                                     June 30, 1989 on 
                                                       Form 10-Q 

  4(b)         Indenture dated as of November 1,    Incorporated by         
                1982 between the Company and The     reference to Exhibit   
                 Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. as        4(a) to the Company's 
                  Trustee.                           Registration Statement 
                                                      on Form S-3, File No. 
                                                       2-80012

  4(c)         Supplemental Indenture No. 1         Incorporated by         
                dated as of November 1, 1991       reference to Exhibit 4.1 
               to Indenture dated as of             to the Company's Report 
                November 1, 1982.                    on Form 8-K dated      
                                                      November 20, 1991

  4(d)         LYNX Equity Unit Agreement           Incorporated by         
                                                     reference to Exhibit   
                                                      10.1 to the Company's 
                                                   Report on Form 8-K dated 
                                                    October 1, 1991         
                                        
Item 14. (continued)

(a) 3. Exhibits (continued)

Exhibit                                                 Method
  Number                   Description                   of Filing

  4(e)         LYNX Equity Unit Guarantee           Incorporated by         
                Agreement                            reference to Exhibit   
                                                      10.1 to the Company's 
                                                   Report on Form 8-K dated 
                                                    October 1, 1991

  10(a)        The Company's Executive Incentive    Plan incorporated by
               Plan (as amended) and Trust related  reference to Exhibit    
                thereto                              10(a) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1991 
                                                      on Form 10-K.  Trust  
                                                     Agreement incorporated 
                                                    by reference to Exhibit 
                                                     10(a) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1988 
                                                      on Form 10-K

  10(b)        The Company's 1983 Stock Incentive   Incorporated by  
               Plan (as amended)                    reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(c) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1988 
                                                      on Form 10-K

  10(c)        The Company's 1987 Stock Incentive   Incorporated by 
               Plan (as amended)                    reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(d) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1990 
                                                     on Form 10-K

  10(d)        The Company's 1992 Stock Incentive   Incorporated by 
               Plan (as amended)                    reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(d) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1992 
                                                     on Form 10-K

  10(e)(i)     Employment agreement between the     Incorporated by 
               Company and Robert P. Luciano        reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(e)(i) to the        
                                                    Company's Annual Report 
                                                     for 1989 on Form 10-K

  10(e)(ii)    Employment agreement between the     Incorporated by 
               Company and Richard J. Kogan         reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(e)(ii) to the       
                                                    Company's Annual Report 
                                                     for 1989 on Form 10-K 

  10(e)(iii)   Employment agreement between the     Incorporated by 
               Company and David E. Collins         reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(e)(iv) to the       
                                                    Company's Annual Report 
                                                     for 1989 on Form 10-K

Item 14. (continued)

(a) 3. Exhibits (continued)

  Exhibit                                                Method
  Number               Description                      of Filing

  10(e)    Agreements between the Company and       Incorporated by  
   (iv)    certain executive officers related       reference to Exhibit    
            to termination payments                  10(e)(v) to the        
                                                    Company's Annual Report 
                                                     for 1989 on Form 10-K

  10(f)    Directors Deferred Compensation          Plan incorporated by
           Plan and Trust related thereto           reference to Exhibit 10 
                                                     (f) to the Company's   
                                                    Annual Report for 1991  
                                                     on Form 10-K.  Trust   
                                                    Agreement incorporated  
                                                    by reference to Exhibit 
                                                     10(a) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1988 
                                                      on Form 10-K

  10(g)    Pension Plan for Directors               Plan incorporated by
           and Trust related thereto                reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(g) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1987 
                                                      on Form 10-K; Trust   
                                                     Agreement incorporated 
                                                    by reference to Exhibit 
                                                     10(g) to the Company's 
                                                    Annual Report for 1988  
                                                    on Form 10-K; Amendment
                                                   to Trust Agreement filed
                                                    with this document

  10(h)    Supplemental Executive Retirement        Plan incorporated by
           Plan and Trust related thereto           reference to Exhibit    
                                                     10(h) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1987 
                                                      on Form 10-K; Trust   
                                                     Agreement incorporated 
                                                    by reference to Exhibit 
                                                     10(g) to the Company's 
                                                    Annual Report for 1988  
                                                    on Form 10-K; Amendment
                                                   to Trust Agreement filed
                                                    with this document in   
                                                     10(g) above

  10(i)    Directors Stock Award Plan               Incorporated by         
                                                     reference to Exhibit   
                                                     10(i) to the Company's 
                                                     Annual Report for 1988 
                                                      on Form 10-K

  11       Computation of Earnings Per             Filed with this document
           Common Share                         
     


Item 14. (continued)


(a) 3. Exhibits (continued)

Exhibit                                                 Method
  Number                   Description                   of Filing

  12          Computation of Ratio of              Filed with this document
              Earnings to Fixed charges  

  13          The Financial Section of the         Filed with this document
              Company's 1993 Annual Report 
              to Shareholders.  With the 
              exception of those portions of 
              said Annual Report which are 
              specifically incorporated by 
              reference in this Form 10-K, such 
              report shall not be deemed filed 
              as part of this Form 10-K
 
  22          Subsidiaries of the registrant       Filed with this document

  24          Consents of experts and counsel      Filed with this document

  25          Power of attorney                    Filed with this document

         All other exhibits are not applicable.  Copies of above exhibits   
          will be furnished upon request.

  (b)   Reports on Form 8-K

    None

  
                            SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                             Schering-Plough Corporation
                                                    (Registrant)

Date March 4, 1994                      By      /s/ Thomas H. Kelly     
                                                    Thomas H. Kelly
                                           Vice President and Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


 By               *                  By               *              
           Robert P. Luciano                 Regina E. Herzlinger
    Chairman and Chief Executive                   Director
         Officer and Director

 By               *                  By               *              
            Richard J. Kogan                  H. Barclay Morley    
    President and Chief Operating                  Director
         Officer and Director

 By               *                  By               *              
           Harold R. Hiser, Jr.             Richard de J. Osborne
Executive Vice President - Finance                 Director
  and Principal Financial Officer

 By               *                  By               *              
            Thomas H. Kelly                  William A. Schreyer 
   Vice President and Controller                   Director
 and Principal Accounting Officer

 By               *                  By               *              
          Hans W. Becherer                  Robert F. W. van Oordt
              Director                             Director

 By               *                  By               *              
           Hugh A. D'Andrade                    R. J. Ventres     
              Director                             Director

 By               *                  By               *              
           Virginia A. Dwyer                     James Wood  
              Director                             Director

 By               *                                         
              
           David C. Garfield                                 
              Director                                    


*By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly               Date March 4, 1994             
        Thomas H. Kelly
        Attorney-in-fact

                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Schering-Plough Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Schering-Plough
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992 and
the related statements of consolidated income, retained earnings and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1993, and have issued our report thereon dated February 15,
1994; such financial statements and report are included in your 1993
Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference.  Our audits also included the financial statement
schedules of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries, listed in
Item 14.  These financial statement schedules are the responsibility
of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express our
opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial
statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.



/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE

   Parsippany, New Jersey
   February 15, 1994


                       







                                                                   SCHEDULE V

PAGE

                                                        SCHEDULE VI

________________________________________________________________


