
10-K405


              SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         Form 10-K Annual Report

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998     Commission file 
                                                Number 1-6571
                    SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION

Incorporated in New Jersey                         22-1918501
One Giralda Farms                            (I.R.S. Employer
Madison, New Jersey 07940-1000               Identification No.)
(973) 822-7000 (telephone number)

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:

                                           Name of each exchange
Title of each class                          on which registered

Common Shares, $.50 par value             New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights*          New York Stock Exchange

*At the time of filing, the Rights were not traded separately 
from the Common Shares.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 
and has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 
days.
                                          YES   X        NO    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, 
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, 
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by 
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this 
Form 10-K.    X   

Common shares outstanding as of January 29, 1999:   1,472,315,748

Aggregate market value of common shares at January 29, 1999 held 
by non-affiliates based on closing price:     $80 billion.

                                              Part of Form 10-K
Documents incorporated by reference           incorporated into

Schering-Plough Corporation 1998              Parts I, II and IV
Annual Report to Shareholders

Schering-Plough Corporation Proxy             Part III
Statement for the annual meeting of
shareholders on April 27, 1999

                               Part I            
Item 1.  Business

General

The terms "Schering-Plough" and the "Company," as used herein, 
refer to Schering-Plough Corporation and its subsidiaries, except 
as otherwise indicated by the context.  Schering-Plough 
Corporation is a holding company which was incorporated in 1970. 
Subsidiaries of Schering-Plough Corporation are engaged in the 
discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of 
pharmaceutical and health care products worldwide.  Products 
include prescription drugs and consumer products.

Business Segment and Other Financial Information

The "Business Segment Data" as set forth in the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's 1998 Annual 
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. Net 
sales by major product groups for each of the three years in the 
period ended December 31, 1998 were as follows (dollars in 
millions):


                                  1998      1997      1996 
Allergy/Respiratory              $3,375    $2,708    $2,113
Anti-infective and Anticancer     1,263     1,156     1,135
Dermatologicals                     619       571       560
Cardiovasculars                     750       637       533
Other Pharmaceuticals               688       649       512
Animal Health                       647       389       196
Foot Care                           336       300       261
Sun Care                            181       148       123
OTC                                 205       208       210
Other Health Care Products           13        12        13

Consolidated Net Sales           $8,077    $6,778    $5,656		

In June 1997, the Company purchased the worldwide animal health 
operations of Mallinckrodt Inc. The acquisition was recorded 
under the purchase method of accounting at a cost of 
approximately $490 million, which includes the assumption of debt 
and direct costs of the acquisition.

Pharmaceutical Products

The Company's pharmaceutical operations include prescription 
drugs and animal health products.  Prescription products include: 
CLARITIN, CLARITIN-D, NASONEX, PROVENTIL, THEO-DUR, VANCENASE and 
VANCERIL, allergy/respiratory; CEDAX, INTRON A, REBETRON 
Combination Therapy containing REBETOL capsules and INTRON A 
injection, EULEXIN, GARAMYCIN, and NETROMYCIN, anti-infective and 
anticancer; DIPROLENE, DIPROSONE, ELOCON, and LOTRISONE, derma-
tologicals; INTEGRILIN, IMDUR, K-DUR, NITRO-DUR and NORMODYNE, 
cardiovasculars; CELESTONE, and SUBUTEX, other pharmaceuticals. 
Animal health biological and pharmaceutical products include 
anthelmintics, GENTOCIN and NUFLOR, antibiotics; BANAMINE, a 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent; TRIBRISSEN,
an antimicrobial; RALGRO, a growth promotant; nutritionals;
OTOMAX, a steroid ointment and OPTIMMUNE, an ophthalmic
ointment and vaccines.

Prescription drugs are introduced and made known to physicians, 
pharmacists, hospitals and managed care organizations by trained 
professional service representatives, and are sold to hospitals, 
managed care organizations and wholesale and retail druggists.  
Pharmaceutical products are also promoted through journal 
advertising, direct mail advertising, consumer advertising and by 
distributing samples to physicians.  Animal health products are 
promoted and sold by a separate sales force to veterinarians, 
distributors and animal producers.

The Company's subsidiaries own (or have licensed rights under) a 
number of patents and patent applications, both in the United 
States and abroad.  Patents and patent applications relating to 
the Company's significant products, including without limitation 
the CLARITIN family of products and INTRON A, are of material 
importance to the operations of the pharmaceutical segment.

Raw materials essential to this segment are available in adequate 
quantities from a number of potential suppliers.  Energy is 
expected to be available to the Company in sufficient quantities 
to meet operating requirements.

Worldwide, the Company's pharmaceutical products are sold under 
trademarks.  Trademarks are considered in the aggregate to be of 
material importance to the pharmaceutical business and are 
protected by registration or common law in the United States and 
most other markets where the products are sold.

Seasonal patterns do not have a pronounced effect on the combined 
activities of this industry segment.

There is generally no significant backlog of orders since the 
Company's business is normally conducted on an immediate shipment 
basis.

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and includes 
other large companies with substantial resources for research, 
product development and promotion.  There are numerous domestic 
and international competitors in this industry.  Some of the 
principal competitive techniques used by the Company for its 
pharmaceutical products include research and development of new 
and improved products, high product quality, varied dosage forms 
and strengths and disease management programs.  In the United 
States, many of the Company's pharmaceutical products are subject 
to increasingly competitive pricing as managed care groups, 
institutions, government agencies and other buying groups seek 
price discounts and rebates.

During 1998, 11 percent of consolidated net sales were made to 
McKesson Corporation, a major pharmaceutical and health care 
products distributor; substantially all of these sales were in 
the pharmaceutical segment in the United States.

Health Care Products

The product categories in the health care segment are foot care, 
sun care and OTC products primarily sold in the United States.  
Products include: CLEAR AWAY wart remover; DR. SCHOLL'S foot care 
products; LOTRIMIN AF and TINACTIN antifungals; COPPERTONE and 
SOLARCAINE sun care products;   AFRIN  nasal decongestant; CHLOR-
TRIMETON antihistamine; CORICIDIN and DRIXORAL cold and 
decongestant products; CORRECTOL laxative; GYNE-LOTRIMIN for 
vaginal yeast infections; A & D ointment; and PAAS egg coloring 
products. Business in this segment is conducted through wholesale 
and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, and is 
promoted directly to the consumer through television, radio, 
print and other advertising media.

Raw materials essential to this segment are available in adequate 
quantities from a number of potential suppliers.  A substantial 
portion of the Company's sun care products are produced by third 
party suppliers. However, the Company does not believe that the 
loss of any one of these suppliers would have a material adverse 
effect on the health care segment.  Energy is expected to be 
available to the Company in sufficient quantities to meet 
operating requirements.

Trademarks for the major products included in this segment are 
registered in the United States and some overseas countries where 
these products are marketed.  Trademarks are very important to 
the operations of this segment.

Principally due to the seasonal sales of sun care products, 
operating profits in this segment are relatively higher in the 
first half of the year.

There is generally no significant backlog of orders since the 
Company's business is normally conducted on an immediate shipment 
basis.

The health care products' industry is highly competitive and 
includes other large companies with substantial resources for 
product development and promotion.  There are several dozen 
significant competitors in this industry.  The Company believes 
that in the United States it has a leading position in the foot 
care and sun care categories, with its DR. SCHOLL'S lines of foot 
insoles, cushions, wart removal and antifungals and its brands of 
sun care products.  In addition, AFRIN is among the leaders in 
nasal sprays.  The principal competitive techniques used by the 
Company in this industry segment include the development and 
introduction of new and improved products, switching prescription 
products to OTC medicines, and product promotion methods to gain 
and retain consumer acceptance.

During 1998, approximately 38 percent of the health care 
segment's sales were to the segment's five largest customers as 
compared to 38 percent and 33 percent for the years ended 
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  

Foreign Operations

Foreign activities are carried out primarily through wholly-owned 
subsidiaries wherever market potential is adequate and circum-
stances permit.  In addition, the Company is represented in some 
markets through joint ventures, licensees or other distribution 
arrangements.  There are approximately 13,300 employees outside 
the United States. 

Foreign operations are subject to certain risks which are 
inherent in conducting business overseas.  These risks include 
possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations 
and other restrictive governmental actions.  Also, fluctuations 
in foreign currency exchange rates can impact the Company's 
consolidated financial results.  For additional information on 
foreign operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
Operations and Financial Condition", "Financial Instruments" and 
"Business Segment Data" in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to 
Shareholders which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Research and Development

The Company's research activities are primarily aimed at 
discovering and developing new and enhanced pharmaceutical 
products of medical and commercial significance.  Company 
sponsored research and development expenditures were $1,007 
million, $847 million and $723 million in 1998, 1997, and 1996, 
respectively.  Research expenditures represented approximately 13 
percent of consolidated net sales in each of the three years.

The Company's pharmaceutical research activities are concentrated 
in the therapeutic areas of allergic and inflammatory disorders, 
infectious and cardiovascular diseases, oncology and central 
nervous system disorders.  The Company also has substantial 
efforts directed toward biotechnology, gene therapy and 
immunology.  Research activities include expenditures for both 
internal research efforts and research collaborations with 
various partners.  

While several pharmaceutical compounds are in varying stages of 
development, it cannot be predicted when or if products will 
become available for commercial sale.




Government Regulation

Most products manufactured or sold by the Company are subject to 
varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in 
which operations are conducted.  In the United States, the drug 
industry has long been subject to regulation by various federal, 
state and local agencies, primarily as to product safety, 
efficacy, advertising and labeling.  Compliance with the broad 
regulatory powers of the Food and Drug Administration requires 
significant amounts of Company time, testing and documentation, 
and corresponding costs to obtain clearance of new drugs.  
Similar product regulations also apply in many international 
markets.

In most international markets, the Company operates in an 
environment of government-mandated cost-containment programs.  
Several governments have placed restrictions on physician 
prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized 
greater use of generic drugs and enacted across-the-board price 
cuts as methods of cost control.  

Since the Company is unable to predict the final form and timing 
of any future domestic and international governmental or other 
health care initiatives, their effect on operations and cash 
flows cannot be reasonably estimated.

The Company has complied and will continue to comply with the 
government regulations of the countries in which operations are 
conducted.

Environment

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental  
protection laws has not had a materially adverse effect on the 
Company.  The Company has made and will continue to make 
necessary expenditures for environmental protection.  Worldwide 
capital expenditures during 1998 included approximately $13 
million for environmental control purposes.  It is anticipated 
that continued compliance with such environmental regulations 
will not significantly affect the Company's financial statements 
or its competitive position.  For additional information on 
environmental matters, see "Legal and Environmental Matters" in 
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders which is 
incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

There were approximately 25,100 people employed by the Company at 
December 31, 1998.



Item 2.  Properties

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Madison, New 
Jersey. Principal manufacturing facilities for the pharmaceutical 
segment are located in Kenilworth, New Jersey, Miami, Florida, 
Omaha, Nebraska, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, 
Canada, Colombia, France, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, 
Singapore and Spain; health care segment: Kenilworth, New Jersey, 
Cleveland, Tennessee and Puerto Rico.

The Company's principal research facilities are located in 
Kenilworth and Union, New Jersey and Palo Alto, California (DNAX) 
and San Diego, California (Canji and Syntro) and Elkhorn, 
Nebraska.

The major portion of properties are owned by the Company.  These 
properties are well maintained, adequately insured and in good 
operating condition. The Company's manufacturing facilities have 
capacities considered appropriate to meet the Company's needs.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Subsidiaries of the Company are defendants in 185 lawsuits 
involving approximately 730 plaintiffs arising out of the use of 
synthetic estrogens by the mothers of the plaintiffs.  In 
virtually all of these lawsuits, many other pharmaceutical 
companies are also named defendants.  The female plaintiffs claim 
various injuries, including cancerous or precancerous lesions of 
the vagina and cervix and a multiplicity of pregnancy problems.  
A number of suits involve infants with birth defects born to 
daughters whose mother took the drug.  The total amount claimed 
against all defendants in all the suits amounts to more than $2 
billion.  While it is not possible to precisely predict the 
outcome of these proceedings, it is management's opinion that it 
is remote that any material liability in excess of the amount 
accrued will be incurred.

The Company is a party to, or otherwise involved in, 
environmental clean-up actions or proceedings under the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability 
Act (commonly known as Superfund) or equivalent state laws.  
These actions or proceedings seek to require the owners or 
operators of facilities that treated, stored or disposed of 
hazardous substances and transporters and generators of such 
substances to remediate contaminated facilities and/or reimburse 
the government or private parties for their clean-up costs.  The 
Company, along with such owners, operators, transporters and 
generators, is alleged to be a potentially responsible party 
("PRP") as an alleged generator of hazardous substances found at 
certain facilities.  In each proceeding, the government or 
private litigants allege that any one PRP, including the Company, 
is jointly and severally liable for all clean-up requirements and 
costs.  Although joint and several liability is alleged, a PRP's 
share of clean-up costs is frequently determined on the basis of 
several factors, including the type and quantity of hazardous 
substances; however, the allocation process varies greatly from 
facility to facility and may take years to complete.  The 
Company's potential share of clean-up costs also depends on how 
many other PRPs are involved in the action or proceeding, 
insurance coverage, available indemnity contracts, and 
contribution rights against other PRPs.  While it is not possible 
to predict with certainty the outcome of any action or 
proceeding, it is management's opinion that it is remote that any 
material liability in excess of amounts accrued will be incurred.

The Company is a defendant in more than 160 antitrust actions 
commenced (starting in 1993) in state and federal courts by 
independent retail pharmacies, chain retail pharmacies and 
consumers.  The plaintiffs allege price discrimination and/or 
conspiracy between the Company and other defendants to restrain 
trade by jointly refusing to sell prescription drugs at 
discounted prices to the plaintiffs.

One of the federal cases is a class action on behalf of 
approximately two-thirds of all retail pharmacies in the United 
States and alleges a price-fixing conspiracy.  The Company agreed to 
settle the federal class action for a total of $22 million, which 
has been paid in full as of January 31, 1999.  The settlement 
provides, among other things, that the Company shall not refuse 
to grant discounts on brand-name prescription drugs to a retailer 
based solely on its status as a retailer and that, to the extent 
a retailer can demonstrate its ability to affect market share of 
a Company brand-name prescription drug in the same manner as a 
managed care organization with which the retailer competes, it 
will be entitled to negotiate similar incentives subject to the 
rights, obligations, exemptions and defenses of the Robinson-
Patman Act and other laws and regulations.  The United States 
District Court in Illinois approved the settlement of the federal 
class action on June 21, 1996.  In June 1997, the Seventh Circuit 
Court of Appeals dismissed all appeals from that settlement, and 
it is not subject to further review.  The defendants that did not 
settle the class action proceeded to trial in September 1998.  
The trial ended in November 1998 with a directed verdict in the 
defendants' favor.

Four of the state antitrust cases have been certified as class 
actions.  Two are class actions on behalf of certain retail 
pharmacies in California and Wisconsin, and the other two are 
class actions in California and the District of Columbia, on 
behalf of consumers of prescription medicine. In addition, an 
action has been brought in Alabama purportedly on behalf of 
consumers in Alabama and several other states.  Plaintiffs are 
seeking to maintain the action as a class action.  The Company 
has settled the retailer class action in Wisconsin and the 
alleged class action in Minnesota.  The settlements of the state 
antitrust cases in Wisconsin and Minnesota have been approved by 
the respective courts.  The settlement amounts were not 
significant.  The Company has also recently settled in principle 
the state consumer cases in all of the states except Alabama and 
California.  Court approval of those settlements has either 
already been obtained or is currently being sought.  The 
settlement amounts were not material to the Company.  In August 
1998, a class action was brought in Tennessee purportedly on 
behalf of consumers in Tennessee and several other states.  The 
court has conditionally certified a class of consumers, but has 
stayed the case pending the resolution of an earlier-filed 
Tennessee case, which the Company has settled in principle.

Plaintiffs in these antitrust actions generally seek treble 
damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction against the 
allegedly unlawful conduct.

In May 1998, the Company settled six of the federal antitrust 
cases brought by 26 food and drug chain retailers and several 
independent retail stores.  Plaintiffs in these cases comprise 
collectively approximately one-fifth of the prescription drug 
retail market.  The settlement amounts were not material to the 
Company.  The Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, Inc. (A&P) 
was among the settling plaintiffs.  Mr. James Wood, a director of 
the Company, was an executive officer of A&P.  Mr. Wood did not 
participate in any review or deliberations by the Board of 
Directors relating to this action. 

In April 1997, certain of the plaintiffs in the federal class 
action commenced another purported class action in United States 
District Court in Illinois against the Company and the other 
defendants who settled the previous federal class action.  The 
complaint alleges that the defendants conspired not to implement 
the settlement commitments following the settlement discussed 
above.  The District Court has denied the plaintiffs' motion for 
a preliminary injunction hearing.  

The Company believes all the antitrust actions are without merit 
and is defending itself vigorously.

On March 13, 1996, the Company was notified that the United 
States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is investigating whether 
the Company, along with other pharmaceutical companies, conspired 
to fix prescription drug prices.  The investigation is ongoing. 
The Company vigorously denies that it has engaged in any price-
fixing conspiracy.

The Company is a defendant in a state court action in Texas 
brought by Foxmeyer Health Corporation, the parent of a 
pharmaceutical wholesaler that filed for bankruptcy in August 
1996.  The case is against another pharmaceutical wholesaler and 
11 pharmaceutical companies and alleges that the defendants 
conspired to drive the plaintiff's wholesaler subsidiary out of 
business.  The complaint also alleged that the defendants defamed 
the wholesaler and interfered with its business.  There are 
related actions pending in the Delaware bankruptcy proceedings of 
the wholesaler; certain of the plaintiff's claims against the 
Company have been dismissed.  Plaintiff is seeking damages in the 
amount of $400 million.  The Company believes that this action is 
without merit and is defending itself vigorously against all 
claims.

In February 1998, Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) submitted 
an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration seeking to market a generic form of CLARITIN 
in the United States several years before the expiration of the 
Company's patents.  Geneva has alleged that certain of the 
Company's U.S. CLARITIN patents are invalid and unenforceable.  
The CLARITIN patents are material to the Company's business. In 
March 1998, the Company filed suit in federal court seeking a 
ruling that Geneva's ANDA submission constitutes willful 
infringement of the Company's patents and that its challenge to 
the Company's patents is without merit.  The Company believes 
that it should prevail in the suit. However, as with any 
litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company will 
prevail.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.












Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following information regarding executive officers is included 
herein in accordance with Part III, Item 10.

Officers are elected to serve for one year and until their successors 
shall have been duly elected.

Name and Current Position          Business Experience                Age

Richard Jay Kogan                  Present position 1998;             57
  Chairman of the Board            President and Chief Executive            
  and Chief Executive Officer      Officer 1996-1998; President
                                   And Chief Operating Officer
                                   1986-1995 

Raul E. Cesan                      Present position 1998;             51
  President and Chief              Executive Vice President 
  Operating Officer                and President Schering-
                                   Plough Pharmaceuticals
                                   1994-1998

Hugh A. D'Andrade                  Present position 1996;             60
  Vice Chairman and                Executive Vice President
  Chief Administrative Officer     Administration 1984-1995

Joseph C. Connors                  Present position 1996;             50
  Executive Vice President         Senior Vice President and
  and General Counsel              General Counsel 1992-1995

Jack L. Wyszomierski               Present position 1996;             43 
  Executive Vice President         Vice President and Treasurer
  and Chief Financial Officer      1991-1995 

Geraldine U. Foster                Present position 1994;             56
  Senior Vice President            Vice President - Investor 
  Investor Relations and           Relations 1988-1994          
  Corporate Communications

Daniel A. Nichols                  Present position 1991              58
  Senior Vice President
  Taxes
                                
John P. Ryan	                      Present position 1998;             58
  Senior Vice President            Vice President-Human Resources         
                        
  Human Resources                  Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals
                                   1988-1998

Douglas J. Gingerella              Present position 1999;             40
  Vice President, Corporate        Staff Vice President, Corporate
  Audits                           Audits 1995-1998; Director 
                                   Corporate Audits 1991-1995



Name and Current Position          Business Experience               Age

Thomas H. Kelly                    Present position 1991              49
  Vice President and               
  Controller

Robert S. Lyons                    Present position 1991              58
  Vice President                                             
  Corporate Information                                           
  Services        

E. Kevin Moore                     Present position 1996;             46
  Vice President and               Staff Vice President and
  Treasurer                        Assistant Treasurer 1993-1995;
                                   Treasurer-Europe, The Dun and
                                   Bradstreet Corporation 1990-1993
                                                                
John E. Nine                       Present position 1996;             62
  Vice President                   President - Technical Operations
  and President, Schering          Schering Laboratories 1990-1995
  Technical Operations             

William J. Silbey                  Present position 1996;             39
  Staff Vice President,            Corporate Counsel 1993-1995;
  Secretary and Associate          Partner - Stearns, Weaver, Miller,
  General Counsel                  Weissler, Alhadeff & Sitterson,
                                   P.A. 1992-1993



                               Part II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters

The common share dividends and share price data as set forth in the 
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein 
by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The Six-Year Selected Financial & Statistical Data as set forth in 
the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated 
herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of Operations

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial 
Condition as set forth in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to 
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market               
Risk

The Market Risk Disclosures as set forth in Management's Discussion 
and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition in the Company's 
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by 
reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
and the related Statements of Consolidated Income, Consolidated 
Shareholders' Equity and Consolidated Cash Flows for each of the 
three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Independent Auditors' Report 
of Deloitte & Touche LLP dated February 12, 1999 and Quarterly Data, 
as set forth in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, 
are incorporated  herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.
                               Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information concerning directors and nominees for directors as 
set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of 
shareholders on April 27, 1999 is incorporated herein by reference.

Information required as to executive officers is included in Part I 
of this filing under the caption "Executive Officers of the 
Registrant."

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Executive compensation information as set forth in the Company's 
Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 
1999 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
         Management

Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial 
owners and management as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement 
for the annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 1999 is 
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning certain relationships and related 
transactions as set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 
annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 1999 is incorporated 
herein by reference.

                               Part IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
         Form 8-K

  (a) 1. Financial Statements

         The following consolidated financial statements and
         independent auditors' report, included in the Company's
         1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated
         herein by reference.

         Statements of Consolidated Income For the
            Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 

         Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity For the
            Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 

         Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows For the Years 
            Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

         Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
                                                                 
         Independent Auditors' Report 


(a) 2. Financial Statement Schedules
                                                 Page in
                                                 Form 10-K

Independent Auditors' Report . . . . . . . . . . .       21

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. .       22

Schedules not included have been omitted because they are not 
applicable or not required or because the required information is 
set forth in the financial statements or the notes thereto.  Columns 
omitted from schedules filed have been omitted because the 
information is not applicable.

Financial statements of fifty percent or less owned companies 
accounted for by the equity method have been omitted because, 
considered individually or in the aggregate, they do not constitute 
a significant subsidiary.

(a) 3. Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                        Description

3(a)         A complete copy of the Certificate of Incorporation
             as amended and currently in effect.  Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 3 (i) to the Company's Quarterly  
             Report for the period ended June 30, 1995 on Form 10-              
             Q; Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of                      
             Incorporation incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3               
             to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended 
             
             June 30, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

3(b)         A complete copy of the By-Laws as amended and
             currently in effect.  Incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 4(2) to the Company's Registration Statement
             on Form S-3, File No. 333-853; amendment to By-Laws
             effective September 22, 1998 incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report for the
             period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 
             1-6571.

4(a)         Rights Agreement between the Company and The Bank of
             New York dated June 24, 1997.  Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 1 to the Form 8-A filed by the
             Company on June 30, 1997, File No. 1-6571.

4(b)         Indenture dated as of November 1, 1982 between the
             Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. as 
             Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)to
             the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File
             No. 2-80012.


Exhibit
 Number                        Description

4(c)         Form of Participation Rights Agreement between the
             Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
             Association), as Trustee.  Incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Registration
             Statement on Form S-4, Amendment No. 1, File 
             No. 33-65107.

10(a)        The Company's Executive Incentive Plan (as amended)
             and Trust related thereto.*  Plan incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly
             Report for the period ended March 31, 1994 on 
             Form 10-Q;  Trust Agreement incorporated by 
             reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual 
             Report for 1988 on Form 10-K; amendment to Trust 
             Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) 
             to the Company's Quarterly Report for the period 
             ended March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

10(b)        The Company's 1987 Stock Incentive Plan (as 
             amended).*  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
             10(d) to the Company's Annual Report for 1990 on 
             Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(c)        The Company's 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended).*   
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the   
             Company's Annual Report for 1992 on Form 10-K, File 
             No. 1-6571; amendment of December 11, 1995  
             incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)to the 
             Company's Annual Report for 1995 on Form 10-K, File 
             No. 1-6571.

10(d)        The Company's 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.*              
                                                      
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended            
             September 30, 1997 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571. 

10(e)(i)     Employment agreement between the Company and Robert
             P. Luciano (as amended).*  Incorporated by reference 
             to Exhibit 10(e)(i) to the Company's Annual Report          
		           for 1989 on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated
                 
		           by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's    
                  
		           Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994
             on Form 10-Q; second amendment incorporated by   
             reference to Exhibit 10(e)(i) to the Company's Annual 
             Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; third amendment
             incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March
             31, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571. 



Exhibit
 Number                        Description

10(e)(ii)    Employment agreement between the Company and Richard
             J. Kogan (as amended).*  Incorporated by reference to  
             Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's Annual Report  
             for 1989 on Form 10-K; first amendment incorporated           
             by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the  Company's   
             Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994
             on Form 10-Q; second amendment incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(e)(ii) to the Company's              
             Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K; third amendment      
             incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended
             September 30, 1995 on Form 10-Q; fourth amendment
             incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March
             31, 1998 on Form 10-Q; fifth amendment (filed with
             this document), File No. 1-6571. 

10(e)(iii)   Employment agreement between the Company and Hugh A.
             D'Andrade (as amended).*  Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's        
             Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1994      
             on Form 10-Q;  first amendment incorporated by                
             reference to Exhibit 10(e)(iii) to the Company's             
             Annual Report for 1994 on Form 10-K, File No. 1-
             6571; second amendment incorporated by reference to 
             Exhibit 10(e)(iii) to the Company's Annual Report for 
             1995 on Form 10-K; third amendment incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Quarterly
             Report for the period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 
             10-Q; fourth amendment (filed with this document), File 
             No. 1-6571.

10(e)(iv)    Form of employment agreement between the Company and
             its executive officers effective upon a change of
             control.*  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit             
             10(e)(iv) to the Company's Annual Report for 1994 on      
             Form 10-K, File No. 1-6571.

10(e)(v)     Agreement between the Company and Robert P. Luciano.*
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the 
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March           
             31, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

10(e)(vi)    Employment agreement between the Company and Raul E. 
             Cesan (filed with this document), File No. 1-6571.*

10(e)(vii)   Agreement between the Company and Rodolfo C. Bryce.*
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
             Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended June
             30, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

Exhibit
 Number                        Description

10(f)      Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust related 
           thereto.*  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to         
           the Company's Annual Report for 1991 on Form 10-K;  
           amendment of December 7, 1998 (filed with this document);  
           Trust Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
           10(a) to the Company's Annual Report for 1988 on Form   
           10-K; amendment to Trust Agreement incorporated by 
           reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly 
           Report for the period ended March 31, 1997 on Form 10-Q, 
           File No. 1-6571.

10(g)      Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Trust related         
           thereto.*  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to 
           the Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 
           31, 1998 on Form 10-Q;amendment incorporated by reference 
           to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report for 
           the period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q; Amended 
           and Restated Trust Agreement (filed with this document), 
           File No. 1-6571. 

10(h)      Directors' Stock Award Plan.*  Incorporated by reference            
           to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report for the             
           period ended September 30, 1994 on Form 10-Q, File No. 
           1-6571; amendment of January 1, 1997 incorporated by                
           reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Company's Annual Report            
           for 1996 on Form 10-K; amendment of April 1, 1998
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the
           Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March
           31, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-6571. 

10(i)      The Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.*  Incorporated
           by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly 
           Report for the period ended September 30, 1995 on Form 
           10-Q, File No. 1-6571.

10(k)      The Company's Directors Deferred Stock Equivalency        
           Program.*  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to  
           the Company's Annual Report for 1996 on Form 10-K, File   
           No. 1-6571.

10(l)      The Company's Form of Split Dollar Agreement and related
           Collateral Assignment between the Company and its
           Executive Officers.*  Incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's Annual Report for 1997 on
           Form 10-K; amendments incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the   
           period ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No.
           1-6571.  



Exhibit
 Number                        Description

10(m)      The Company's Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan.*
           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the 
           Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 
           1998 on Form 10-Q; amendment incorporated by reference to 
           Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report for the 
           period ended September 30, 1998 on Form 10-Q, File No. 1-  
           6571.

12         Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed 
           with this document). 


13         The Financial Section of the Company's 1998 Annual Report
           to Shareholders.  With the exception of those portions of
           said Annual Report which are specifically incorporated by
           reference in this Form 10-K (filed with this document),     
           such report shall not be deemed filed as part of this
           Form 10-K.   

21         Subsidiaries of the registrant (filed with this  
           document).

23         Consents of experts and counsel (filed with this
           document). 

24         Power of attorney (filed with this document).

27         Financial Data Schedule (filed with this document). 

99         Cautionary Statements regarding "Safe Harbor" provision     
           of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
           (filed with this document).


All other exhibits are not applicable.  Copies of above exhibits 
will be furnished upon request.

*  Compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
(b) Reports on Form 8-K.


None


                              SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized
                                             Schering-Plough Corporation
                                                    (Registrant)
Date  February 25, 1999                  By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly        	
                                                Thomas H. Kelly
                                           Vice President and Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of 
the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

 By               *                 By               *              
           Richard Jay Kogan                  Robert P. Luciano
    Chairman of the Board and Chief                Director
    Executive Officer and Director

 By               *                 By               *              
            Raul E. Cesan                     Donald L. Miller
    President and Chief Operating                 Director
       Officer and Director

 By               *                 By               *              
         Jack L. Wyszomierski                 H. Barclay Morley 
    Executive Vice President and                  Director
       Chief Financial Officer

 By               *                 By               *              
            Thomas H. Kelly                    Carl E. Mundy, Jr.
   Vice President and Controller                  Director
  and Principal Accounting Officer

 By               *                 By               *               
           Hans W. Becherer                 Richard de J. Obsorne
              Director                            Director

 By               *                 By               *              
           Hugh A. D'Andrade                  Patricia F. Russo 
              Director                            Director

 By               *                 By               *                     
          David C. Garfield                  William A. Schreyer  
               Director                           Director

 By               *                 By               *                  
          Regina E. Herzlinger            Robert F. W. van Oordt          
               Director                           Director

*By   /s/Thomas H. Kelly            By               *                	   
         Thomas H. Kelly                       James Wood 
         Attorney-in-fact                       Director 

Date:     February 25,1999

                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Schering-Plough Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Schering-
Plough Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 
and 1997 and the related statements of consolidated income, 
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 1998, and have issued 
our report thereon dated February 12, 1999; such financial 
statements and report are included in your 1998 Annual 
Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by 
reference.  Our audits also included the financial statement 
schedule of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries, 
listed in Item 14.  This financial statement schedule is the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express our opinion based on our 
audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, 
when considered in relation to the basic financial 
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material 
respects the information set forth therein.



/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey
February 12, 1999

                                            	SCHEDULE II
            



