
10-K
FORM 10K



 
                                   FORM 10-K
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549



             [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



                  For the Fiscal Year Ended DECEMBER 31, 1998



                                      OR



             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



                        Commission File Number: 1-12252



                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
            (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)


          MARYLAND                                            13-3675988
(State or Other Jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization)                             Identification No.) 
                                                                
  TWO NORTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                    60606
   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)                     (Zip Code)


                                (312) 474-1300
             (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


 


       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes     X     No  ____
                                         -------          

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting shares held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $4.8 billion based upon the
closing price on March 12, 1999 of $40 9/16 using beneficial ownership of shares
rules adopted pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to
exclude voting shares owned by Trustees and Officers, some of whom may not be
held to be affiliates upon judicial determination.

At March 9, 1999, 118,832,901 of the Registrant's Common Shares of Beneficial
Interest were outstanding.

 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III incorporates by reference information to be contained in the Company's
definitive proxy statement, which the Company anticipates will be filed no later
than March 31, 1999, and thus these items have been omitted in accordance with
General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.


 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                                        
                               

 


 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL


  Equity Residential Properties Trust ("EQR") is a self-administered and self-
managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").  EQR was organized in
March 1993 and commenced operations on August 18, 1993 upon completion of its
initial public offering (the "EQR IPO") of 13,225,000 common shares of
beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Shares"). EQR was formed
to continue the multifamily property business objectives and acquisition
strategies of certain affiliated entities controlled by Mr. Samuel Zell,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Company.  These entities had been
engaged in the acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily residential
properties since 1969.  As used herein, the term "Company" includes EQR and
those entities owned or controlled by it, as the survivor of the mergers between
EQR and each of Wellsford Residential Property Trust ("Wellsford") (the
"Wellsford Merger"), Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc. ("EWR") (the "EWR
Merger") and Merry Land & Investment Company, Inc. ("MRY") (the "MRY Merger")
(collectively, the "Mergers").

  The Company's subsidiaries include ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the
"Operating Partnership"), Equity Residential Properties Management Limited
Partnership and Equity Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership II
(collectively, the "Management Partnerships"), a series of partnerships (the
"Financing Partnerships") and limited liability companies ("LLCs") which
beneficially own certain properties encumbered by mortgage indebtedness, and
Merry Land DownREIT I LP.

  As of December 31, 1998, the Company owned or had interests in 681 multifamily
properties, of which it controlled a portfolio of 654 multifamily properties
(individually, a "Property" and collectively, the "Properties") containing
187,002 units.  The remaining 27 properties represent an investment in
partnership interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 properties
containing 3,896 units and an investment in six joint ventures consisting of six
properties containing 1,297 units (collectively, the "Additional Properties").
The Company's Properties and the Additional Properties are located throughout
the United States in the following states: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana,
Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington
and Wisconsin.  In addition, Equity Residential Properties Management Corp.
("Management Corp.") and Equity Residential Properties Management Corp. II
("Management Corp. II") also provide residential property and asset management
services to 52 properties containing 12,890 units owned by affiliated entities.
The Company is one of the largest publicly traded REIT's (based on the aggregate
market value of its outstanding Common Shares) and is the largest publicly
traded REIT owner of multifamily properties (based on the number of apartment
units wholly-owned and total revenues earned).

  Since the EQR IPO and through December 31, 1998, the Company, through the
Operating Partnership, has acquired direct or indirect interests in 650
properties (which included the debt collateralized by six Properties) containing
180,224 units in the aggregate for a total purchase price of approximately $10.6
billion, including the assumption of approximately $2.6 billion of mortgage
indebtedness and $845.9 million of unsecured notes.  Since the EQR IPO and
through December 31, 1998, the Company has disposed of 38 properties and a
portion of one Property, containing 9,754 units, and a vacant land parcel for a
total sales price of approximately $306.8 million.

  The Company's corporate headquarters and executive offices are located in
Chicago, Illinois.  In addition, the Company has 30 management offices in the
following cities:


 
                                    PART I
 
   . Chicago, Illinois;                                             
   . Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, Texas;                        
   . Denver, Colorado;                                              
   . Bethesda, Maryland;                                            
   . Atlanta and Augusta, Georgia;                                  
   . Las Vegas, Nevada;                                             
   . Scottsdale and Tucson, Arizona;                                
   . Portland, Oregon;                                              
   . Ypsilanti, Michigan;                                           
   . Charlotte and Raleigh, North Carolina;                         
   . Tampa, Jacksonville, Ft. Lauderdale and Orlando, Florida;      
   . Irvine, Pleasant Hill and Stockton, California;                
   . Kansas City, Kansas;                                           
   . Minneapolis, Minnesota;                                        
   . Louisville, Kentucky;                                          
   . Tulsa, Oklahoma;                                               
   . Seattle and Redmond, Washington; and              
   . Nashville and Memphis, Tennessee.                               

The Company has approximately 6,000 employees.  An on-site manager, who
supervises the on-site employees and is responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the Property, directs each of the Company's Properties. A leasing
administrator and/or property administrator generally assists the manager.  In
addition, a maintenance director at each Property supervises a maintenance staff
whose responsibilities include a variety of tasks, including responding to
service requests, preparing vacant apartments for the next resident and
performing preventive maintenance procedures year-round.

BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND OPERATING STRATEGIES

     The Company seeks to maximize both current income and long-term growth in
income, thereby increasing:  (a) the value of the Properties; (b) distributions
on a per Common Share basis; and (c) shareholders' value.

The Company's strategies for accomplishing these objectives are:

 .    maintaining and increasing Property occupancy while increasing rental
     rates;
 .    controlling expenses, providing regular preventive maintenance, making
     periodic renovations and enhancing amenities;
 .    maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total market capitalization of
     less than 50%;
 .    pursuing acquisitions that:
  a) are available at prices below estimated replacement costs;
  b) have potential for rental rate and/or occupancy increases; 
  c) have attractive locations in their respective markets;
  d) provide anticipated total returns that will increase the Company's
     distributions per Common Share and shareholders' value; and
 .    purchasing newly developed, as well as co-investing in the development of,
     multifamily communities in the Company's existing target markets where the
     market conditions warrant such development.

     The Company is committed to tenant satisfaction by striving to anticipate
industry trends and implementing strategies and policies consistent with
providing quality tenant services.  In addition, the Company continuously
surveys rental rates of competing properties and conducts satisfaction surveys
of 


 
                                    PART I

residents to determine the factors they consider most important in choosing a
particular apartment unit.

ACQUISITION STRATEGIES

     The Company anticipates that future property acquisitions will be located
in the continental United States.  Management will continue to use market
information to evaluate acquisition opportunities.  The Company's market
database allows it to review the primary economic indicators of the markets
where the Company currently manages Properties and where it expects to expand
its operations.  Acquisitions may be financed from various sources of capital,
which may include undistributed funds from operations ("FFO"), issuance of
additional equity securities, sales of Properties and collateralized and
uncollateralized borrowings.  In addition, the Company may acquire additional
multifamily properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership ("OP Units") as consideration
for the acquired properties.  Such transactions may, in certain circumstances,
partially defer the sellers' tax consequences.

When evaluating potential acquisitions, the Company will consider:
 
  .  the geographic area and type of community;
  .  the location, construction quality, condition and design of the property;
  .  the current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to
     increase cash flow;
  .  the potential for capital appreciation of the property;
  .  the terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent increases;
  .  the potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of
     the community in which the property is located;
  .  the occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar type in
     the vicinity (the overall market and submarket);
  .  the prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the
     property;
  .  the benefits of integration into existing operations; and
  .  competition from existing multifamily properties and the potential for the
     construction of new multifamily properties in the area.

The Company expects to purchase multifamily properties with physical and market
characteristics similar to the Properties.

DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES

  The Company seeks to acquire newly constructed properties and make investments
towards the development of properties in markets where it discerns strong
demand, which the Company believes will enable it to achieve superior rates of
return.  The Company's current communities under development and future
developments are in markets or will be in markets where certain market
demographics justify the development of high quality multifamily communities.
In evaluating whether to develop an apartment community in a particular
location, the Company analyzes relevant demographic, economic and financial
data.  Specifically, the Company considers the following factors, among others,
in determining the viability of a potential new apartment community:

 
  .  income levels and employment growth trends in the relevant market;

  .  uniqueness of location;

  .  household growth and net migration of the relevant market's population;

  .  supply/demand ratio, competitive housing alternatives, sub-market occupancy
     and rent levels;

  .  barriers to entry that would limit competition; and


 
                                    PART I

  .  the purchase prices and yields of available existing stabilized
     communities, if any.


DISPOSITION STRATEGIES

  Management will use market information to evaluate dispositions.  Factors the
Company considers in deciding whether to dispose of its Properties include the
following:
  
  .  potential increases in new construction;
 
  .  areas where the economy is expected to decline substantially; and
  
  .  markets where the Company does not intend to establish long-term
     concentrations.

The Company will reinvest the proceeds received from property dispositions
primarily to fund property acquisitions.  In addition, when feasible the Company
may structure these transactions as tax deferred exchanges.

FINANCING STRATEGIES

  The Company intends to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total market
capitalization of 50% or less.  At December 31, 1998, the Company had a ratio of
approximately 41% based on the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on
the New York Stock Exchange and assuming conversion of all OP Units plus the
liquidation preference of non-voting preferred shares of beneficial interest,
$0.01 par value per share ("Preferred Shares").  It is the Company's policy that
EQR shall not incur indebtedness other than short-term trade, employee
compensation, dividends payable or similar indebtedness that will be paid in the
ordinary course of business, and that indebtedness shall instead be incurred by
the Operating Partnership to the extent necessary to fund the business
activities conducted by the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.

Equity Offerings For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

  In January 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,725,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.375 per share (the "January
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million in connection therewith.

  In February 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.50 per share (the "February
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $67.8
million in connection therewith.

  On May 21, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.50 per share.
On May 28, 1996 the Company completed the sale of 73,287 publicly registered
Common Shares to employees of the Company and to employees of Equity Group
Investments, Inc. ("EGI") and certain of their respective affiliates and
consultants at a net price equal to $30.50 per share.  On May 30, 1996, the
Company completed an offering of 1,264,400 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were sold at a net price of $30.75 per share.  The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $111.3 million in connection with the sale of the
3,637,687 Common Shares mentioned above (collectively, the "May 1996 Common
Share Offerings").

  In September 1996, the Company sold 4,600,000 depositary shares (the "Series C
Depositary Shares").  Each Series C Depositary Share represents a 1/10
fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share
of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series C Preferred
Shares").  The liquidation preference of each of the Series C Preferred Shares
is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series C Depositary Share).  The Company
raised net proceeds of $111.4 million from this offering (the "Series C
Preferred Share Offering").


 
                                    PART I

     Also in September 1996, the Company completed the sale of 2,272,728
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at net price of $33 per
share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $75 million in
connection with this offering (the "September 1996 Common Share Offering").

     In November 1996, the Company issued 39,458 Common Shares pursuant to the
1996 Nonqualified Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "Employee Share Purchase
Plan") at a net price of $30.44 and received net proceeds of approximately $1.2
million.

     In December 1996, the Company completed offerings of 4,440,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $41.25 per
share (the "December 1996 Common Share Offerings"). The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $177.4 million.

     In March 1997, the Company completed three separate public offerings
relating to an aggregate of 1,921,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at a price of $46 per share (the "March 1997 Common
Share Offerings").   The Company received net proceeds of approximately $88.3
million therefrom.

     On May 14, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the "June 1997 Equity
Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration statement effective on
June 5, 1997.
 
     In May 1997, the Company sold 7,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series D
Depositary Shares") pursuant to the June 1997 Equity Shelf Registration.  Each
Series D Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a 8.60%
Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par
value per share  (the "Series D Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference
of each of the Series D Preferred shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per
Series D Depositary Share).  The Company received net proceeds of approximately
$169.5 million from this offering (the "Series D Preferred Share Offering").

     In June 1997, the Company completed five separate public offerings
comprising an aggregate of 8,992,023 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at prices ranging from $44.06 to $45.88 per share (the
"June 1997 Common Share Offerings"). The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $398.9 million therefrom.

     On July 28, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register $750 million of equity securities (the "August 1997 Equity
Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration statement effective on
August 4, 1997.

     In September 1997, the Company completed the sale of 498,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $51.125
per share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $24.2 million in
connection with this offering (the "September 1997 Common Share Offering").

     In September 1997, the Company sold 11,000,000 depositary shares (the
"Series G Depositary Shares") pursuant to the August 1997 Equity Shelf
Registration. Each Series G Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional
interest in a 7 1/4% Series G Convertible Cumulative Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series G Preferred
Shares"). Series G Depositary Shares representing Series G Preferred Shares are
convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time into Common Shares
at a conversion price of $58.58 per Common Share (equivalent to a conversion
rate of approximately .4268 Common Shares for each Series G Depositary Share).
The liquidation preference of each of the Series G Preferred Shares is $250.00
per share (equivalent to $25 per Series G Depositary Share). The Company


 
                                    PART I

received net proceeds of approximately $264 million from this offering (the
"Series G Preferred Share Offering"). In addition, in October 1997, the Company
sold 1,650,000 additional Series G Depositary Shares pursuant to an over-
allotment option granted to the underwriters and received net proceeds of
approximately $39.6 million therefrom.

     In October 1997, in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of
Properties, the Company issued 3,315,500 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were issued at a price of $45.25 per share with a value of approximately
$150 million (the "October 1997 Common Share Offering").

     On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a Distribution
Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan.  This registration statement was declared
effective on November 25, 1997.  The Distribution Reinvestment and Share
Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan") of the Company provides holders of record and
beneficial owners of Common Shares, Preferred Shares, and limited partnership
interests in the Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient method of
investing cash distributions in additional Common Shares (which is referred to
herein as the "Dividend Reinvestment-DRIP Plan").  Common Shares may also be
purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in
the Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the
Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging
between 0% and 5% (as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan)(which is
referred to herein as the "Share Purchase-DRIP Plan").

     In December 1997, in connection with an acquisition of a Property, the
Company issued 736,296 publicly registered Common Shares, which were issued at a
price of $48.85 per share with a value of approximately $36 million.

     Also in December 1997, the Company completed the sale of 467,722 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $51.3125 per share.  The
Company received net proceeds of approximately $22.8 million in connection with
this offering (the "December 1997 Common Share Offering").

     During 1997, the Company issued 84,183 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan at net prices, which ranged from $35.63 per share
to $42.08 per share and raised approximately $3.2 million in connection
therewith.

     On January 27, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 4,000,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$50.4375 per share (the "January 1998 Common Share Offering"). The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $195.3 million in connection therewith.

     On February 3, 1998, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register $1 billion of equity securities.  The SEC declared this
registration statement effective on February 27, 1998.

     On February 18, 1998, the Company completed two offerings of 988,340
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$50.625 per share. On February 23, 1998, the Company completed an offering of
1,000,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a
price of $48 per share. The Company received net proceeds from these offerings
(collectively, the "February 1998 Common Share Offerings") of approximately $95
million.


 
                                    PART I

     On March 30, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 495,663 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $47.9156 per share (the
"March 1998 Common Share Offering").  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $23.7 million in connection therewith.

     On April 29, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 946,565 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $46.5459 per share (the
"April 1998 Common Share Offering").  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $44.1 million in connection therewith.

     On September 20, 1998, the Company completed its repurchase of 2,367,400 of
its Common Shares of beneficial interest, on the open market, for an average
price of $40 per share. The purchases were made between August 5 and September
17, 1998.  The Company paid approximately $94.7 million in connection therewith.
These shares were subsequently retired.

     During 1998, the Company issued 93,521 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $3.7
million.

     During 1998, the Company issued 1,023,184 Common Shares pursuant to the
Share Purchase-DRIP Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million.

Debt Offerings For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

     In August 1996, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of 7.57%
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2026 Notes") in a public debt offering (the
"Third Public Debt Offering").  The Operating Partnership received net proceeds
of approximately $149 million in connection with this issuance.

     On September 18, 1996, the Operating Partnership filed with the SEC a Form
S-3 Registration Statement to register $500 million of debt securities (the
"1996 Debt Shelf Registration").

     In October 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2017 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Fourth
Public Debt Offering").  The 2017 Notes are due on October 15, 2017 and bear
interest at 7.125%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and
October 15, commencing April 15, 1998.  The 2017 Notes are redeemable at any
time by the Operating Partnership pursuant to the terms thereof.  The Operating
Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $147.4 million in connection
with this issuance.

     In November 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $200 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes in a public debt offering (the "Fifth Public Debt
Offering"). Of the $200 million issued, $150 million of these notes are due
November 15, 2001 (the "2001 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.55%, which
is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May
15, 1998. The remaining $50 million of these notes are due November 15, 2003
(the "2003 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.65%, which is payable
semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May 15, 1998.
The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $198.5 million
in connection with the 2001 Notes and the 2003 Notes.

     On February 3, 1998, the Operating Partnership filed a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of debt securities. The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998.

     In April 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $300 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2015 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Sixth Public
Debt Offering").  The 2015 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being
amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  The 2015 Notes
are due April 13, 2015. The annual interest rate on the 2015 Notes to April 13,
2005 (the "Remarketing Date") is 6.63%, which is payable semi-annually in
arrears on October 13 and April 13, commencing October 13, 


 
                                    PART I 

1998. The 2015 Notes are subject to mandatory tender to the remarketing agent on
the Remarketing Date, at the election of the remarketing dealer and subject to
certain limitations. If the remarketing dealer, initially Salomon Brothers Inc.,
does not purchase all tendered 2015 Notes on the Remarketing Date, or in certain
other limited circumstances, the Operating Partnership will be required to
repurchase the 2015 Notes at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued
interest. If the 2015 Notes are remarketed, the 2015 Notes will bear interest at
the rate determined by the remarketing dealer on and after the Remarketing Date.
The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $298.1 million
in connection with this issuance. The Operating Partnership also received
approximately $8.1 million from the sale of the option to remarket the 2015
Notes on the Remarketing Date, which is being amortized over the term of the
2015 Notes. Prior to the issuance of the 2015 Notes, the Operating Partnership
entered into an interest rate protection agreement to effectively fix the
interest rate cost of such issuance until the Remarketing Date. The Operating
Partnership received a one-time settlement payment from this transaction, which
was approximately $0.6 million and is being amortized over seven years.

     In August 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $100 million of Remarketed
Reset Notes (the "August 2003 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Seventh
Public Debt Offering").  The August 2003 Notes were issued at a discount, which
is being amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  The
August 2003 Notes are due August 21, 2003.  During the period from and including
August 21, 1998 to but excluding August 23, 1999 (the "Initial Spread Period")
the interest rate on the August 2003 Notes will be reset quarterly, and will
equal LIBOR plus an applicable spread.  The spread during the Initial Spread
Period is .45%.  After the Initial Spread Period, the character (i.e. fixed or
floating rate) and duration of the interest rate on the notes and the subsequent
spread will be agreed to by the Operating Partnership and the remarketing
underwriter, initially Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith Incorporated, on
each applicable determination date.  Beginning August 23, 1999, the Operating
Partnership may elect to redeem the August 2003 Notes on certain dates and in
certain circumstances.  The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of
approximately $99.7 million in connection with this issuance.

     In September 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $145 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2000 Notes") in a public debt offering (the
"Eighth Public Debt Offering"). The 2000 Notes were issued at a discount, which
is being amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line basis. The 2000
Notes are due September 15, 2000. The annual interest rate on the 2000 Notes is
6.15%, which is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15,
commencing March 15, 1999. The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of
approximately $144.5 million in connection with this issuance.

CREDIT FACILITIES

     The Company has a revolving credit facility with Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York ("Morgan Guaranty") and Bank of America Illinois ("Bank of
America") as co-agents to provide the Operating Partnership with potential
borrowings of up to $500 million. This credit facility matures in November 1999
and borrowings generally will bear interest at a per annum rate of one, two,
three or six month LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATE ("LIBOR"), plus a certain
spread dependent upon the Company's credit rating, which spread is currently
0.45%, and is subject to an annual facility fee of $750,000. As of December 31,
1998, $245 million of borrowings were outstanding on this credit facility,
bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 6.04%.

     In connection with the MRY Merger, the Company assumed an additional 
revolving credit facility with First Union Bank (as agent) with potential
borrowings of up to $120 million. This credit facility matures in September 2000
and borrowings generally will bear interest at a per annum rate of LIBOR, plus a
certain spread dependent upon the Company's credit rating, which spread is
currently 0.50%, and is subject to an annual facility fee of $120,000. As of
December 31, 1998, $45 million was outstanding under this facility, bearing
interest at a weighted average rate of 5.74%.


 
                                    PART I

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     On May 30, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of the multifamily
property business of Wellsford through the Wellsford Merger.  The transaction
was valued at approximately $1 billion and included 72 Properties of Wellsford
containing 19,004 units.  The purchase price consisted of:

     .    10.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
          at the date of closing, of $443.7 million;
     .    liquidation value of $157.5 million for the following:
          a)   Wellsford Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;
          b)   Wellsford Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;

     .    assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount
          of $345 million;
     .    assumption of other liabilities of approximately $33.5 million; and
     .    other merger related costs of approximately $23.4 million;

          In the Wellsford Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial
interest of Wellsford was converted into .625 of a Common Share.  In addition,
Wellsford Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 3,999,800 Series E Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series E Preferred Shares") and Wellsford's Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
2,300,000 9.65% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series F Preferred Shares").

          On December 23, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of EWR, through the EWR Merger.  The transaction
was valued at approximately $1.2 billion and included 53 Properties of EWR
containing 15,331 units and three Properties under construction or expansion
containing 953 units.  The purchase price consisted of:

     .    10.3 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
          at the date of closing, of approximately $501.6 million;
     .    assumption of EWR's minority interest with a market value of
          approximately $107.3 million;
     .    assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount
          of $498 million;
     .    assumption of other liabilities of approximately $28.2 million; and
     .    other merger related costs of approximately $16.7 million;

In the EWR Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial interest of EWR
was converted into .50 of a Common Share.

          On October 19, 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of MRY, through the MRY Merger. The transaction
was valued at approximately $2.2 billion and included 108 Properties containing
32,315 units, four Properties under construction and/or expansion anticipated to
contain 1,378 units and six Additional Properties containing 1,297 units that
were contributed to six joint ventures. The purchase price consisted of:

     .    21.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
          at the date of closing, of approximately $1 billion;
     .    liquidation value of $369.1 million for the following:

          a)   MRY Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;
          b)   MRY Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;


 
                                    PART 1

          c)   MRY Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;
          d)   MRY Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
               Interest; and
          e)   MRY Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
               Interest.

     .    assumption of MRY's minority interest with a market value of
          approximately $40.2 million.
     .    assumption of mortgage indebtedness, unsecured notes and the
          outstanding balance under a line of credit in the amount of $723.5
          million;
     .    assumption of other liabilities, of approximately $46.5 million; and
     .    other merger related costs of approximately $51.9 million.


          In the MRY Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial
interest of MRY was converted into 0.53 of a Common Share. In addition, MRY 
spun-off certain assets and liabilities to Merry Land Properties, Inc. ("MRYP
Spinco"). In connection with this spin-off, each holder of MRY common shares
received one share of MRYP Spinco for each twenty shares of MRY common held. As
partial consideration for the transfer, the Company extended a $25 million, one
year, non-revolving Senior Debt Agreement to MRYP Spinco. At December 31, 1998,
approximately $18.3 million was outstanding, bearing interest at LIBOR plus 250
basis points. As additional consideration, the Company extended an additional
$20 million of indebtedness to MRYP Spinco under a 15-year Subordinated Debt
Agreement, bearing interest payable quarterly. The Company also entered into the
Preferred Stock Agreement and received 5,000 shares of MRYP Spinco Preferred
Stock with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share.

          In addition, MRY Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 164,951 Series H
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series H Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the
Company's 4,000,000 Series I Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series I Preferred
Shares"), the MRY Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 4,599,400 Series J Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series J Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series D Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
1,000,000 Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series K Preferred Shares") and the
MRY Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were
redesignated as the Company's 4,000,000 Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series L
Preferred Shares").

RECENT TRANSACTIONS

          From January 1, 1999 through March 12, 1999, the Company acquired
three Properties from an affiliated party and two Properties from unaffiliated
third parties for a total purchase price of approximately $86.6 million, which
included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $16.9 million.
The three Properties acquired from an affiliated party were Aspen Crossing, a
192-unit property located in Wheaton, Maryland; Fireside Park, a 236-unit
property located in Rockville, Maryland; and Mill Pond, a 240-unit property
located in Glen Burnie, Maryland. The two Properties acquired from unaffiliated
third parties were Copper Canyon, a 222-unit property located in Denver,
Colorado; and Siena Terrace, a 356-unit property located in Lake Forest,
California.

     From January 1, 1999 through March 12, 1999, the Company disposed of six
Properties for a total sales price of $64 million.


 
                                    PART I

COMPETITION

     All of the Properties are located in developed areas that include other
multifamily properties.  The number of competitive multifamily properties in a
particular area could have a material effect on the Company's ability to lease
units at the Properties or at any newly acquired properties and on the rents
charged.  The Company may be competing with other entities that have greater
resources than the Company and whose managers have more experience than the
Company's officers and trustees.  In addition, other forms of multifamily
properties, including multifamily properties and manufactured housing controlled
by Mr. Zell, and single-family housing, provide housing alternatives to
potential residents of multifamily properties.

RISK FACTORS

     The following Risk Factors omit the use of defined terms used elsewhere
herein and contain defined terms that are different from those used in the other
sections of this report.  Unless otherwise indicated, when used in this section,
the terms "we" and "us" refer to Equity Residential Properties Trust and its
subsidiaries, including ERP Operating Limited Partnership.

     Set forth below are the risks that we believe are important to investors
who purchase or own our common shares of beneficial interest or preferred shares
of beneficial interest (which we refer to collectively as "Shares") or units of
limited partnership interest ("Units") of ERP Operating Limited Partnership, our
operating partnership, which are redeemable on a one-for-one basis for common
shares or their cash equivalent.  In this section, we refer to the Shares and
the Units together as our "securities," and the investors who own Shares and/or
Units as our "security holders."

     DEBT FINANCING AND PREFERRED SHARES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PERFORMANCE

     General

     As of December 31, 1998, our multifamily properties were subject to
approximately $2.3 billion of mortgage indebtedness and our total debt equaled
approximately $4.7 billion.  Of our total debt outstanding, $840 million
(including the balance of $290 million outstanding on our $620 million unsecured
lines of credit) was floating rate debt, which included $684.7 million issued at
tax exempt rates.  In addition to debt, we have issued preferred shares of
beneficial interest.  Our use of debt and preferred equity financing creates
certain risks, including the following.

     Scheduled Debt Payments Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition

     In the future, our cash flow could be insufficient to meet required
payments of principal and interest or to pay distributions on our securities at
expected levels.  We may not be able to refinance existing debt (which in
virtually all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity) and, if
we can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of
existing indebtedness.  If principal payments due at maturity cannot be
refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such
as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to
repay all maturing debt.  As a result, we may be forced to postpone capital
expenditures necessary for the maintenance of our properties and may have to
dispose of one or more properties on terms that would otherwise be unacceptable
to us.

     Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect the Company's Financial
Condition

     If a property we own is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we
are unable to meet the mortgage payments, the holder of the mortgage could
foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of 


 
                                    PART I

income and asset value. Foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to
refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on our
financial condition and results of operations. A foreclosure could also result
in our recognition of taxable income without our actually receiving cash
proceeds from the disposition of the property with which to pay the tax. This
could adversely affect our cash flow and could make it more difficult for us to
meet our distribution requirements as a real estate investment trust (a "REIT").

     The mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants that,
among other things, limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender,
to further mortgage the property and to discontinue insurance coverage. In
addition, our credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions,
requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. The
indentures under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain
certain financial and operating covenants including, among other things,
maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability
to incur secured and unsecured indebtedness (including acquisition financing),
sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers,
consolidations and certain acquisitions. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these restrictions,
our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. If we are unable to
acquire additional properties, our ability to increase the distributions to
security holders, as we have done in the past, will be limited to management's
ability to increase funds from operations, and thereby cash available for
distributions, from the existing properties in our portfolio at such time.

     Some of the properties were financed with tax-exempt bonds that contain
certain restrictive covenants or deed restrictions.  We have retained an
independent outside consultant to monitor compliance with the restrictive
covenants and deed restrictions that affect these properties.  If these bond
compliance requirements require us to lower our rental rates to attract low or
moderate income tenants, or eligible/qualified tenants, then our income from
these properties may be limited.

     Our Degree of Leverage Could Limit Our Ability to Obtain Additional
Financing

     Our debt to market capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of
total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common and preferred shares
and Units) was approximately 41% as of December 31, 1998. We have a policy of
incurring indebtedness for borrowed money only through the Operating Partnership
and its subsidiaries and only if upon such incurrence our debt to market
capitalization ratio would be approximately 50% or less.  Our degree of leverage
could have important consequences to security holders.  For example, the degree
of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the
future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or
other general corporate purposes, making us more vulnerable to a downturn in
business or the economy generally.

     Rising Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow

     Advances under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates based
upon one, two, three or six month LIBOR, plus a certain spread dependent upon
the Company's credit rating. Certain of our senior unsecured debt instruments
also, from time to time, bear interest at floating rates. We may also borrow
additional money with variable interest rates in the future. Increases in
interest rates would increase our interest expenses under these debt instruments
and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness and of issuing
new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates would adversely affect cash flow
and our ability to service our debt and to make distributions to security
holders.


 
                                    PART I

     CONTROL AND INFLUENCE BY SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS COULD BE EXERCISED IN A
     MANNER ADVERSE TO OTHER SHAREHOLDERS

     General

     As of December 31, 1998, (1) Samuel Zell and certain of the current holders
of Units issued to affiliates of Mr. Zell, who contributed 33 properties to us
at the time of our initial public offering, owned in the aggregate approximately
3.69% of our common shares (Mr. Zell and these affiliates are described herein
as the "Zell Original Owners"); (2) certain entities controlled by Starwood
Capital Partners LP ("Starwood") and its affiliates, who contributed 23
properties to us at the time of our initial public offering, owned approximately
0.24% of our common shares; and (3) certain of our officers, employees, trustees
and consultants, some of whom are affiliated with Mr. Zell, owned approximately
4.31% of our common shares.  These percentages assume all options are exercised
for common shares and all Units are converted to common shares.  In addition,
the consent of certain affiliates of Mr. Zell and Starwood is required for
certain amendments to the Fifth Amended and Restated ERP Operating Limited
Partnership Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement").  As
a result of their security ownership and rights concerning amendments to the
Partnership Agreement, Mr. Zell and the Starwood owners may have substantial
influence over the Company.  Although these security holders have not agreed to
act together on any matter, they would be in a position to exercise even more
influence over the Company's affairs if they were to act together in the future.
This influence might be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the
interests of other security holders.

     Mr. Zell and Others are Exempt from the 5% Ownership Limit Generally
     Applicable to Securities Holders

     In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), not more than 50% of the value of the
outstanding Shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities).  To assure
compliance with this test, our Declaration of Trust restricts the ownership of
more than 5% of the lesser of the number or value of the outstanding Shares by
any single security holder, subject to certain exceptions.  These restrictions
do not apply to the ownership of common shares that may be acquired by the
holders of Units issued to the Zell Original Owners and the Starwood owners.
Additionally, our Declaration of Trust exempts any transferees of such common
shares from the 5% ownership limit, provided such transfers do not result in an
increased concentration in the ownership.

     ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS ARE POSSIBLE AND CAN BE COSTLY

     Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of
the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real
estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum
product releases at such property.  The owner or operator may have to pay a
governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation
and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the
contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability
without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence
of the contaminants.  Even if more than one person may have been responsible for
the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred.  In addition, third parties
may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from
environmental contamination emanating from that site.

     Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of
asbestos.  These laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing
asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train
those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special
precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be
disturbed 


 
                                    PART I

during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and
penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these
requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or
operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.

     All of our properties have been the subject of a Phase I, and in certain
cases a supplemental, environmental assessment completed by qualified
independent environmental consultant companies.  Environmental assessments were
obtained prior to our acquisition of each of our properties.  These
environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any
environmental liability that our management believes would have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or
liquidity.

     We cannot assure you that existing environmental assessments of our
properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of
our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to
us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to
any one or more of our properties.

     OUR PERFORMANCE AND SHARE VALUE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE
     REAL ESTATE INDUSTRY

     General

     Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk and are
relatively illiquid.  Several factors may adversely affect the economic
performance and value of our properties.  These factors include changes in the
national, regional and local economic climate, local conditions such as an
oversupply of multifamily properties or a reduction in demand for our
multifamily properties, the attractiveness of our properties to tenants,
competition from other available multifamily property owners and changes in
market rental rates.  Our performance also depends on our ability to collect
rent from tenants and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other
operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time.
Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily
reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a
reduction in income from the property.

     We May be Unable to Renew Leases or Relet Space as Leases Expire

     When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may
not be able to relet their space.  Even if the tenants do renew or we can relet
the space, the terms of renewal or reletting may be less favorable than current
lease terms.  If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space,
or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than
expected rates, then our results of operations and financial condition will be
adversely affected. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service debt and
make distributions to security holders would be reduced.

     New Acquisitions or Developments May Fail to Perform as Expected and
     Competition for Acquisitions May Result in Increased Prices for Properties

     We intend to continue to actively acquire or develop multifamily
properties.  Newly acquired or developed properties may fail to perform as
expected.  We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired
property up to standards established for its intended market position or to
develop a property.  Additionally, we expect other major real estate investors
with significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment
opportunities.  This competition has increased prices for multifamily
properties.  We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future
to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms.


 
                                    PART I

     Because Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid, We May Not Be Able To Sell
     Properties When Appropriate

     Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly.  We may not be
able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions.
This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our
investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make
distributions to our security holders.

     Changes in Laws Could Affect Our Business

     We are generally not able to pass through to our tenants under existing
leases increases in real estate taxes, income taxes and service or other taxes.
Consequently, any such increases may adversely affect our financial condition
and limit our ability to make distributions to our security holders.  Similarly,
changes that increase our potential liability under environmental laws or our
expenditures on environmental compliance would adversely affect our cash flow
and ability to make distributions on our securities.

     SHAREHOLDERS' ABILITY TO EFFECT CHANGES IN CONTROL OF THE COMPANY IS
     LIMITED

     Provisions of Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws Could Inhibit Changes in
     Control

     Certain provisions of our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws may delay or
prevent a change in control of the Company or other transactions that could
provide the security holders with a premium over the then-prevailing market
price of their securities or which might otherwise be in the best interest of
our security holders. These include a staggered Board of Trustees and the 5%
Ownership Limit described below.  See "--We Have a Share Ownership Limit for
REIT Tax Purposes."  Also, any future series of preferred shares of beneficial
interest may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change
of control or other transactions that might otherwise be in the interest of our
security holders.

     We Have a Share Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes

     To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more
than 50% in value of our outstanding Shares may be owned, directly or
indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any
year.  To facilitate maintenance of our REIT qualification, our Declaration of
Trust, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits ownership by any single
shareholder of more than 5% of the lesser of the number or value of the
outstanding class of common or preferred shares.  See "--Control and Influence
by Significant Shareholders--Mr. Zell and Others are Exempt from the 5%
Ownership Limit Generally Applicable to Securities Holders."  We refer to this
restriction as the "Ownership Limit."  Absent any exemption or waiver,
securities acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be
transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable
beneficiary, and the security holder's rights to distributions and to vote would
terminate.  A transfer of Shares may be void if it causes a person to violate
the Ownership Limit.  The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in
control and, therefore, could adversely affect our security holders' ability to
realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their Shares.

     Our Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest May Affect Changes in Control

     Our Declaration of Trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to issue up to
100 million preferred shares of beneficial interest, and to establish the
preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert
into common shares) of any preferred shares issued.  The Board of Trustees may
use its powers to issue preferred shares and to set the terms of such securities
to delay or prevent a change in 


 
                                    PART I

control of the Company, even if a change in control were in the interest of
security holders. As of December 31, 1998, 29,097,951 preferred shares were
issued and outstanding.

     Inapplicability of Maryland Law Limiting Certain Changes in Control

     Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to real estate investment
trusts prohibit "business combinations" (including certain issuances of equity
securities) with any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the
voting power of outstanding securities, or with an affiliate who, at any time
within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial
owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust's outstanding
voting securities (an "Interested Shareholder"), or with an affiliate of an
Interested Shareholder.  These prohibitions last for five years after the most
recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested
Shareholder.  After the five-year period, a business combination with an
Interested Shareholder must be approved by two super-majority shareholder votes
unless, among other conditions, the trust's holders of common shares receive a
minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in
the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its common
shares.  As permitted by Maryland law, however, the Board of Trustees of the
Company has opted out of these restrictions with respect to any business
combination involving the Zell Original Owners and persons acting in concert
with any of the Zell Original Owners.  Consequently, the five-year prohibition
and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to a business
combination involving us and any of them.  Such business combinations may not be
in the best interest of our security holders.

     OUR SUCCESS AS A REIT IS DEPENDENT ON COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL INCOME TAX
     REQUIREMENTS

     Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Serious Adverse Consequences to
     Our Security Holders

     We believe that we have qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income
tax purposes since our taxable year ended December 31, 1992.  We plan to
continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these
requirements, however, are highly technical and complex.  We cannot, therefore,
guarantee that we have qualified or will qualify in the future as a REIT.  The
determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters
that may not be totally within our control.  For example, to qualify as a REIT,
at least 95% of our gross income must come from sources that are itemized in the
REIT tax laws.  We are also required to distribute to security holders at least
95% of our REIT taxable income excluding capital gains.  The fact that we hold
our assets through ERP Operating Limited Partnership and its subsidiaries
further complicates the application of the REIT requirements.  Even a technical
or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status.  Furthermore, Congress
and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts
might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to
remain qualified as a REIT.  We do not believe, however, that any pending or
proposed tax law changes would jeopardize our REIT status.

     If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income tax
at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under certain
statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years
following the year we first failed to qualify.  If we fail to qualify as a REIT,
we would have to pay significant income taxes.  We, therefore, would have less
money available for investments or for distributions to security holders.  This
would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities.
In addition, we would no longer be required to make any distributions to
security holders.


 
                                    PART 1

     We Could be Disqualified as a REIT or Have to Pay Taxes if Our Merger
     Partners Did Not Qualify as REIT's

     If any of our recent merger partners had failed to qualify as a REIT
throughout the duration of its existence, then it might have had undistributed
"C corporation earnings and profits" at the time of its merger with us.  If that
was the case and we did not distribute those earnings and profits prior to the
end of the year in which the merger took place, we might not qualify as a REIT.
We believe that each of our merger partners qualified as a REIT and that, in any
event, none of them had any undistributed "C corporation earnings and profits"
at the time of its merger with us.  If any of our merger partners failed to
qualify as a REIT, an additional concern would be that it would have recognized
taxable gain at the time it was merged with us.  We would be liable for the tax
on such gain.  In this event, we would have to pay corporate income tax on any
gain existing at the time of the applicable merger on assets acquired in the
merger if the assets are sold within ten years of the merger.  Finally, we could
be precluded from electing REIT status for up to four years after the year in
which the predecessor entity failed to qualify for REIT status.

     Other Tax Liabilities

     Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state
and local taxes on our income and property.  In addition, our third-party
management operations, which are conducted through subsidiaries, generally will
be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.

     WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL

     We depend on the efforts of our executive officers, particularly Samuel
Zell and Douglas Crocker II.  If they resign, our operations could be
temporarily adversely effected.  Neither Mr. Crocker nor Mr. Zell has entered
into an employment agreement with us.

     COMPLIANCE WITH REIT DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS MAY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL
     CONDITION

     Distribution Requirements May Increase the Indebtedness of the Company

     We may be required from time to time, under certain circumstances, to
accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned but not yet received.
In such event, or upon our repayment of principal on debt, we could have taxable
income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution
requirements of a REIT.  Accordingly, we could be required to borrow funds or
liquidate investments on adverse terms in order to meet these distribution
requirements.

     We Are Dependent on External Sources of Capital

     Because of our annual REIT distribution requirements, it is not likely that
we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including for acquisitions,
from income generated by operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-
party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms
or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of
things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our
current and potential future earnings. Moreover, additional equity offerings may
result in substantial dilution of security holders' interests, and additional
debt financing may substantially increase our leverage.


 
                                    PART I

FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

     General

     The following discussion summarizes all of the federal income tax
considerations material to a holder of common shares.  It is not exhaustive of
all possible tax considerations. For example, it does not give a detailed
discussion of any state, local or foreign tax considerations. The following
discussion also does not address all tax matters that may be relevant to
prospective shareholders in light of their particular circumstances.  Moreover,
it does not address all tax matters that may be relevant to shareholders who are
subject to special treatment under the tax laws, such as insurance companies,
tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, foreign
corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States.

     The specific tax attributes of a particular shareholder could have a
material impact on the tax considerations associated with the purchase,
ownership and disposition of common shares. Therefore, it is essential that each
prospective shareholder consult with his or her own tax advisors with regard to
the application of the federal income tax laws to the shareholder's personal tax
situation, as well as any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state,
local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.

     Our Taxation

     We elected REIT status beginning with the year that ended December 31,
1992.  In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be
subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or
capital gain that we distribute to our shareholders.  This treatment
substantially eliminates the double taxation that applies to most corporations,
which pay a tax on their income and then distribute dividends to shareholders
who are in turn taxed on the amount they receive.  However, we will be subject
to federal income tax at regular corporate rates upon our REIT taxable income or
capital gain that we do not distribute to our shareholders.  We also may be
subject to the corporate "alternate minimum tax" on items of preference under
this alternative tax regime.  In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax
if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements.  Moreover, we may
be subject to taxes in certain situations and on certain transactions that we do
not presently contemplate.

     If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will
be subject to tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates.  We also may
be subject to the corporate "alternate minimum tax."  As a result, our failure
to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce the cash we have available to
distribute to our shareholders.  Unless entitled to statutory relief, we would
be disqualified from qualification as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year during which qualification was lost.  It is not possible to
state whether we would be entitled to statutory relief.

     Our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend on our ability to satisfy
various requirements under the Internal Revenue Code.  We are required to
satisfy these requirements on a continuing basis through actual annual operating
and other results.  These requirements relate to the sources of our gross
income, the composition of our assets, the amount of dividends we pay to
shareholders, the diversity of our share ownership, and other aspects of our
operations.  The purpose of these requirements is to allow the tax benefit of
REIT status only to companies that:

          (a)  primarily own, and primarily derive income from, real estate-
               related assets and certain other assets which are passive in
               nature, and

          (b)  distribute 95% of the taxable income, computed without regard to
               net capital gain, to shareholders.

We believe that we have qualified as a REIT for all of our taxable years
beginning with 1992.  We also 


 
                                    PART I

believe that our current structure and method of operation is such that we will
continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot guarantee that the actual
results of our operations have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements under
the Internal Revenue Code.

     Hogan & Hartson L.L.P., our special tax counsel, has provided an opinion to
the effect that we were organized and have operated in conformity with the
requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
Code for each of our taxable years beginning in 1992.  The opinion also provides
that our current organization and method of operation should enable us to
continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT.  It
must be emphasized that the opinion is based on various assumptions and factual
representations relating to our organization and our prior and expected
operations.  In each case, these representations include representations about
our predecessors.  Hogan & Hartson L.L.P. will not review our compliance with
these requirements on a continuing basis.

TAXATION OF TAXABLE DOMESTIC SHAREHOLDERS

     General.  If we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our taxable
domestic shareholders with respect to their common shares, other than capital
gain distributions, will be treated as ordinary income to the extent that the
distributions come out of earnings and profits. These distributions will not be
eligible for the dividends received deduction for shareholders that are
corporations. In determining whether distributions are out of earnings and
profits, we will allocate our earnings and profits first to preferred shares and
second to the common shares. We cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient
earnings and profits to cover distributions on the preferred shares.

     Distributions made by us that we properly designate as capital gain
dividends will be taxable to taxable domestic shareholders as gain from the sale
or exchange of a capital asset held for more than one year. This treatment
applies only to the extent that the designated distributions do not exceed our
actual net capital gain for the taxable year. It applies regardless of the
period for which a domestic shareholder has held his or her common shares.
Despite this general rule, corporate shareholders may be required to treat up to
20% of certain capital gain dividends as ordinary income.

     On November 10, 1997, the IRS issued IRS Notice 97-64, which provides
generally that we may classify portions of our designated capital gains dividend
as a 20% rate gain distribution, an unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution,
or a 28% rate gain distribution.  If no designation is made, the notice provides
that the entire designated capital gain dividend will be treated as a 28% rate
gain distribution.  As the names suggest, a 20% rate gain distribution would be
taxable to taxable domestic shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts
at a maximum rate of 20% and a 28% rate gain distribution would be taxable to
taxable domestic shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts at a
maximum rate of 28%.  An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution would be
taxable to taxable domestic shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts
at a maximum rate of 25%.  On July 22, 1998, as part of the IRS Restructuring
Act, the holding period requirement for the application of the 20% and 25%
capital gain tax rates was reduced to 12 months from 18 months for sales of
capital gain assets on or after January 1, 1998.  This change effectively
eliminated the 28% capital gain tax bracket.  It is expected that the IRS will
issue clarifying guidance, most likely applying the same principles set forth in
Notice 97-64, regarding a REIT's designation of capital gain dividends in light
of the new holding period requirements.

     If, for any taxable year, we elect to designate as capital gain dividends
any portion of the dividends paid or made available for the year to holders of
all classes of shares of beneficial interest, then the portion of the capital
gains dividends that will be allocable to the holders of common shares will be
the total capital gain dividends multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the
fraction will be the total dividends paid or made available to the holders of
the common shares for the year. The denominator of the fraction will be the
total dividends paid or made available to holders of all classes of shares of
beneficial interest. To the extent we make distributions in excess of earnings
and profits, these distributions will be treated first as a tax-free return of
capital to the shareholder, reducing the tax basis


 
                                    PART I

of a shareholder's common shares by the amount of the distribution.
Distributions in excess of the shareholder's tax basis will be treated as
capital gains if the common shares are held as a capital asset. Shareholders may
not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating
losses or capital losses.

     In general, a shareholder will recognize gain or loss for federal income
tax purposes on the sale or other disposition of common shares in an amount
equal to the difference between:

          (a)  the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property
               received in the sale or other disposition, and

          (b)  the shareholder's adjusted tax basis in the common shares.

The gain or loss will be capital gain or loss if the common shares were held as
a capital asset.  Generally, the capital gain or loss will be long-term capital
gain or loss if the common shares were held for more than one year.  The
Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 allows the IRS to issue regulations relating to the
manner in which capital gain rates will apply to sales of capital assets by
REIT's and to sales of interests in REIT's.  The IRS has not issued these
regulations.  However, if the IRS does issue these regulations, they could
affect the taxation of gain and loss realized on the disposition of common
shares.  Shareholders are urged to consult with their own tax advisors with
respect to the rules contained in the Taxpayer Relief Act.

     In general, a loss recognized by a shareholder upon the sale of common
shares that were held for six months or less, determined after applying certain
holding period rules, will be treated as long-term capital loss to the extent
that the shareholder received distributions that were treated as long-term
capital gains. For shareholders who are individuals, trusts and estates, the
long-term capital loss will be apportioned among the applicable long-term
capital gain rates to the extent that distributions received by the shareholder
were previously so treated.

     We may elect to require shareholders to include our undistributed net
capital gains in their income. If we make this election, shareholders will
include in their income as long-term capital gains their proportionate share of
these gains. Shareholders will be treated as having paid their proportionate
share of the tax paid by us on these gains. Accordingly, they will receive a
credit or refund for the amount. Shareholders will increase the basis in their
common shares by the difference between the amount of capital gain included in
their income and the amount of the tax they are treated as having paid. Our
earnings and profits will be adjusted appropriately.

TAXATION OF TAX-EXEMPT SHAREHOLDERS

     Most tax-exempt organizations are not subject to federal income tax except
to the extent of their unrelated business taxable income, which is often
referred to as UBIT. Unless a tax-exempt shareholder holds its common shares as
debt financed property or uses the common shares in an unrelated trade or
business, distributions to the shareholder should not constitute UBIT.
Similarly, if a tax-exempt shareholder sells common shares, the income from the
sale should not constitute UBIT unless the shareholder held the shares as debt
financed property or used the shares in a trade or business.

     However, for tax-exempt shareholders that are social clubs, voluntary
employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts, and
qualified group legal services plans, income from owning or selling common
shares will constitute UBIT unless the organization is able to properly deduct
amounts set aside or placed in reserve so as to offset the income generated by
its investment in common shares. These shareholders should consult their own tax
advisors concerning these set aside and reserve requirements which are set forth
in the Internal Revenue Code.

     In addition, certain pension trusts that own more than 10% of a pension-
held REIT must report a portion of the distributions that they receive from the
REIT as UBIT. We have not been and do not expect to be treated as a pension-held
REIT for purposes of this rule.


 
                                    PART I

TAXATION OF FOREIGN SHAREHOLDERS

     The following is a discussion of certain anticipated United States federal
income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of common shares
applicable to a foreign shareholder.  It is based on current law and is for
general information only.  A "foreign shareholder" is any person other than:

          (a)  a citizen or resident of the United States,

          (b)  a corporation or partnership created or organized in the United
               States or under the laws of the United States or of any state
               thereof, or

          (c)  an estate or trust whose income is includable in gross income for
               United States federal income tax purposes regardless of its
               source.

     Distributions by Us.  Distributions by us to a foreign shareholder that are
neither attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of United States real
property interests nor designated by us as capital gains dividends will be
treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of
our earnings and profits.  These distributions ordinarily will be subject to
withholding of United States federal income tax on a gross basis at a 30% rate,
or a lower treaty rate, unless the dividends are treated as effectively
connected with the conduct by the foreign shareholder of a United States trade
or business.  Please note that under certain treaties lower withholding rates
generally applicable to dividends do not apply to dividends from REIT's.
Dividends that are effectively connected with a United States trade or business
will be subject to tax on a net basis at graduated rates, and are generally not
subject to withholding.  Certification and disclosure requirements must be
satisfied before a dividend is exempt from withholding under this exemption.  A
foreign shareholder that is a corporation also may be subject to an additional
branch profits tax at a 30% rate or a lower treaty rate.

     We expect to withhold United States income tax at the rate of 30% on any
distributions made to a foreign shareholder unless:

          (a)  a lower treaty rate applies and any required form or
               certification evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is
               filed with us, or

          (b)  the foreign shareholder files an IRS Form 4224 with us claiming
               that the distribution is effectively connected income.

     A distribution in excess of our current or accumulated earnings and profits
will not be taxable to a foreign shareholder to the extent that the distribution
does not exceed the adjusted basis of the shareholder's common shares.  Instead,
the distribution will reduce the adjusted basis of the common shares.  To the
extent that the distribution exceeds the adjusted basis of the common shares, it
will give rise to gain from the sale or exchange of the shareholder's common
shares.  The tax treatment of this gain is described below.

     As a result of a legislative change made by the Small Business Job
Protection Act of 1996, it appears that we will be required to withhold 10% of
any distribution in excess of our earnings and profits.  Consequently, although
we intend to withhold at a rate of 30%, or a lower applicable treaty rate, on
the entire amount of any distribution, to the extent that we do not do so,
distributions will be subject to withholding at a rate of 10%.  However, a
foreign shareholder may seek a refund of the withheld amount from the IRS if it
subsequently determined that the distribution was, in fact, in excess of our
earnings and profits, and the amount withheld exceeded the foreign shareholder's
United States tax liability with respect to the distribution.


 
                                    PART I

     Distributions to a foreign shareholder that we designate at the time of the
distributions as capital gain dividends, other than those arising from the
disposition of a United States real property interest, generally will not be
subject to United States federal income taxation unless:

          (i)  the investment in the common shares is effectively connected with
               the foreign shareholder's United States trade or business, in
               which case the foreign shareholder will be subject to the same
               treatment as domestic shareholders, except that a shareholder
               that is a foreign corporation may also be subject to the branch
               profits tax, as discussed above, or


          (ii) the foreign shareholder is a nonresident alien individual who is
               present in the United States for 183 days or more during the
               taxable year and has a "tax home" in the United States, in which
               case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30%
               tax on the individual's capital gains.

     Under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, which is known as
FIRPTA, distributions to a foreign shareholder that are attributable to gain
from sales or exchanges of United States real property interests will cause the
foreign shareholder to be treated as recognizing the gain as income effectively
connected with a United States trade or business. This rule applies whether or
not a distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend. Accordingly,
foreign shareholders generally would be taxed on these distributions at the same
rates applicable to U.S. shareholders, subject to a special alternative minimum
tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. In addition, a foreign
corporate shareholder might be subject to the branch profits tax discussed
above. We are required to withhold 35% of these distributions. The withheld
amount can be credited against the foreign shareholder's United States federal
income tax liability.

     Although the law is not entirely clear on the matter, it appears that
amounts we designate as undistributed capital gains in respect of the common
shares held by U.S. shareholders would be treated with respect to foreign
shareholders in the same manner as actual distributions of capital gain
dividends.  Under that approach, foreign shareholders would be able to offset as
a credit against the United States federal income tax liability their
proportionate share of the tax paid by us on these undistributed capital gains.
In addition, foreign shareholders would be able to receive from the IRS a refund
to the extent their proportionate share of the tax paid by us were to exceed
their actual United States federal income tax liability.

     Sales of Common Shares.  Gain recognized by a foreign shareholder upon the
sale or exchange of common shares generally will not be subject to United States
taxation unless the shares constitute a "United States real property interest"
within the meaning of FIRPTA.  The common shares will not constitute a United
States real property interest so long as we are a domestically controlled REIT.
A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a
specified testing period less than 50% in value of its stock is held directly or
indirectly by foreign shareholders.  We believe that we are a domestically
controlled REIT.  Therefore, we believe that the sale of common shares will not
be subject to taxation under FIRPTA.  However, because common shares and
preferred shares are publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we will continue
to be a domestically controlled REIT.  In any event, gain from the sale or
exchange of common shares not otherwise subject to FIRPTA will be taxable to a
foreign shareholder if either:

          (i)  the investment in the common shares is effectively connected with
               the foreign shareholder's United States trade or business, in
               which case the foreign shareholder will be subject to the same
               treatment as domestic shareholders with respect to the gain, or


 
                                    PART I

          (ii) the foreign shareholder is a nonresident alien individual who is
               present in the United States for 183 days or more during the
               taxable year and has a tax home in the United States, in which
               case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30%
               tax on the individual's capital gains.

     Even if we do not qualify as or cease to be a domestically controlled REIT,
gain arising from the sale or exchange by a foreign shareholder of common shares
still would not be subject to United States taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a
United States real property interest if:

          (i)  the class or series of shares being sold is "regularly traded,"
               as defined by applicable IRS regulations, on an established
               securities market such as the New York Stock Exchange, and

          (ii) the selling foreign shareholder owned 5% or less of the value of
               the outstanding class or series of shares being sold throughout
               the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange.

     If gain on the sale or exchange of common shares were subject to taxation
under FIRPTA, the foreign shareholder would be subject to regular United States
income tax with respect to the gain in the same manner as a taxable U.S.
shareholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax, a special
alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals and the
possible application of the branch profits tax in the case of foreign
corporations.  The purchaser of the common shares would be required to withhold
and remit to the IRS 10% of the purchase price.

OTHER TAX CONSIDERATIONS

     Clinton Administration Proposal.  The Clinton Administration's fiscal year
2000 budget proposal was announced on February 1, 1999.  One part of the
proposed budget would amend the tax rules relating to the composition of a
REIT's assets.  Under current law, a REIT is precluded from owning more than 10%
of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer, other than a wholly
owned subsidiary or another REIT.  Under the Clinton administration proposal, a
REIT would remain subject to the current restriction and would be precluded from
owning more than 10% of the value of all classes of stock of any covered issuer.

     The Clinton proposal also contains an exception to both the 10% asset test
described above and a second REIT asset test which precludes any one issuer's
securities owned by a REIT to exceed 5% of the REIT's total assets.  This
exception would allow a REIT to have "qualified independent contractor
subsidiaries," which could perform services for tenants and other customers that
a REIT currently cannot perform, and "qualified business subsidiaries," which
could undertake third-party management and development activities as well as
other non-real estate related activities.  Collectively, these two types of
entities are called "taxable REIT subsidiaries."  Under the proposal, no more
than 15% of a REIT's total assets could consist of taxable REIT subsidiaries and
no more than 5% of a REIT's total assets could consist of qualified independent
contractor subsidiaries.  In addition, a taxable REIT subsidiary would not be
entitled to deduct any interest on debt funded directly or indirectly by the
REIT.  If the proposal is enacted, a REIT could combine and convert existing
corporate subsidiaries into taxable REIT subsidiaries tax-free for a limited
period of time.  After the effective date of the proposal and any applicable
transition period, the 10% vote or value test would apply to our corporate
subsidiaries, other than wholly owned corporate subsidiaries, that do not
convert into "taxable REIT subsidiaries."  It is presently uncertain whether
this proposal, or any other proposal regarding REIT subsidiaries, will be
enacted.

     Our Management Company Subsidiaries. A portion of the cash to be used by
our operating partnership to fund distributions to us is expected to come from
payments of dividends on non-voting


 
                                    PART I

stock of management companies held by the Operating Partnership. The management
companies pay federal and state income tax at the full applicable corporate
rates. They will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but we cannot
guarantee whether or the extent to, which measures taken to minimize these
taxes, will be successful. To the extent that the management companies are
required to pay taxes, the cash available for distribution by us to shareholders
will be reduced accordingly.

     State and Local Taxes.  We and our shareholders may be subject to state or
local taxation in various jurisdictions, including those in which it or they
transact business or reside.  The state and local tax treatment of us and our
shareholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed
above.  Consequently, prospective shareholders should consult their own tax
advisors regarding the effect of state and local tax laws on an investment in
common shares.


ITEM 2.  THE PROPERTIES

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company controlled a portfolio of 654
multifamily Properties, of which six are under development, located in 35 states
containing 187,002 apartment units, of which 2,107 units pertain to the
development Properties. The average number of units per Property, not including
the development Properties, was approximately 285. The units are typically
contained in a series of two-story buildings. The Properties contain an
aggregate of 166.1 million rentable square feet, with an average unit size of
898 square feet (not including the development Properties). The average rent per
unit was $739 and the average rent per square foot was $0.82 (not including the
development Properties).

     As of December 31, 1998, the Properties had an average occupancy rate of
95%. Tenant leases are generally year-to-year and require security deposits. The
Properties typically provide residents with attractive amenities, which may
include a clubhouse, swimming pool, laundry facilities and cable television
access. Certain Properties offer additional amenities such as saunas,
whirlpools, spas, sports courts and exercise rooms.

     The Company believes that the Properties provide amenities and common
facilities that create an attractive residence for tenants.  It is management's
role to monitor compliance with Property policies and to provide preventive
maintenance of the Properties including common areas, facilities and amenities.
The Company holds periodic meetings of its Property management personnel for
training and implementation of the Company's strategies.  The Company believes
that, due in part to this strategy, the Properties historically have had high
occupancy rates.

     The distribution of the Properties throughout the United States reflects
the Company's belief that geographic diversification helps insulate the
portfolio from regional and economic influences. At the same time, the Company
has sought to create clusters of Properties within each of its primary markets
in order to achieve economies of scale in management and operation; however, the
Company may acquire additional multifamily properties located anywhere in the
United States.

     The Company beneficially owns fee simple title to 647 of the Properties and
holds a 99-year leasehold interest with respect to one Property (Mallgate).
Direct fee simple title for certain of the Properties is owned by single-purpose
nominee corporations or land trusts that engage in no business other than
holding title to the Property for the benefit of the Company.  Holding title in
such a manner is expected to make it less costly to transfer such Property in
the future in the event of a sale and should facilitate financing, since lenders
often require title to a Property to be held in a single purpose entity in order
to isolate that Property from potential liabilities of other Properties. Direct
fee simple title for certain other Properties is owned by an LLC.  In addition,
with respect to two Properties, the Company owns the debt collateralized by such
Properties and with respect to four Properties, the Company owns an interest in
the debt collateralized by the Properties.


 
                                    PART I

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company had an investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 of the Additional
Properties and an investment in six joint ventures consisting of six of the
Additional Properties.  The Additional Properties contain 5,193 units, located
in six states.

     The following tables include only those Properties and Additional
Properties owned by the Company or in which the Company had a direct equity or
mortgage interest at December 31, 1998. As such, the properties currently under
development by third parties (see discussion in Item 7) are not included in the
following tables. In addition, the units for expansion properties are not
included in the following tables until the expansion is complete.

     The following tables set forth certain information relating to the
Properties, Properties under development and the Additional Properties:


 


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES- CONTINUED



 

                                                       

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

                                       




 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
              PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED
 
 



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
              PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                 PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
              PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED
 


 
Item 2. Properties

             PROPERTIES- Continued

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
           PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED 

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

 


(1) Encumbered by a third party mortgage.           
(2) Includes La Costa Brava (JAX) and Cedar Cove.
(3) Includes Fox Run, Greenwood Forest, Walnut Ridge, and Williamsburg.
(4) Includes Port Royale I, Port Royale II, and Port Royale III. Port Royale III
    is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(5) Northwoods Village is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(6) Greenwich Woods is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(7) As of 12/31/97, the Company had an investment in six mortgage loans
    collateralized by these properties and they were include in
    the Form 10-K as "Additional Properties".
    On 4/1/98, the Company purchased these five properties and they are
    therefore no longer considered "Additional Properties".
(8) Includes Paces Station and Paces on the Green.
(9) Overlook Manor II is encumbered by a third party mortgage.


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

          DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
          The apartment communities under construction and/or in lease up are
          listed below:

 

(10) Development of this project is currently on hold.
         
*    The actual date of construction commencement represents the date the
     Company began development of the first building/phase.
     The actual or estimated commencement of lease-up represents the date the
     Company began or estimates to begin lease-up of the first building/phase.
     The estimated date of stabilized occupancy represents the date the Company
     estimates to reach 93% physical occupancy for all buildings/phases or two
     months after the certificate of occupancy is received on the final
     building/phase.

**   Combined with The Retreat, Phase I.
         
***  Amounts represent the total development cost to date at December 31, 1998.
     of this amount, $29 million was funded by EWR prior to the EWR Merger (for
     Montierra and The Retreat) and $42 million was funded by MRY prior to the
     MRY Merger (for Merritt Lake, Cherry Creek III, Prairie Creek II and
     Madison at Spring Oak).


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

                    ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
               PROPERTIES - CONTINUED

                    ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES

 
      
(11)  All of these Additional Properties are encumbered by mortgages, of which
the Company has an investment in the second and third mortgages (which are
subordinate to first mortgages owned by third party unaffiliated entities).

(12)  The Company has a 50% equity investment in each of these properties, but
receives preferential returns ranging from 9.50% to 10.25% until its investment
is recovered.


 
                                    PART I
                                        
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Only ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, which is not
deemed material, was initiated during the year ended December 31, 1998.  As of
December 31, 1998, the Company does not believe there is any other litigation
threatened against the Company other than routine litigation arising out of the
ordinary course of business, some of which is expected to be covered by
liability insurance, none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect
on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     On October 15, 1998, a special meeting of shareholders was held whereby the
shareholders were asked to approve the MRY Merger.  Of the votes that were
collected, there were 72,608,401 votes for the MRY Merger, 1,198,684 votes
against the MRY Merger and 105,928 abstentions; and, therefore, the MRY Merger
was approved by the shareholders.

     At this special meeting, a separate proposal was introduced whereby the
shareholders were asked to approve an increase in the Company's authorized
Common Shares.  Of the votes that were collected, there were 81,986,055 votes
for the Common Share increase, 3,401,289 votes against the Common Share increase
and 123,729 abstentions; and, therefore, this increase was approved by the
shareholders.


 
                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

          The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low sales prices for and the distributions paid on the Company's Common
Shares which trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol EQR.

 

          In addition, on February 24, 1999, the Company declared a $0.71
distribution per Common Share payable on April 9, 1999 to shareholders of record
on March 19, 1999.

          The number of beneficial holders of Common Shares at December 31,
1998, were approximately 55,217. The number of outstanding Common Shares as of
December 31, 1998 was 118,230,009.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

          The following table sets forth selected financial and operating
information on a historical basis for the Company. The following information
should be read in conjunction with all of the financial statements and notes
thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The historical operating data for
the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994 have been derived from the historical
Financial Statements of the Company audited by Grant Thornton L.L.P.,
independent accountants. The historical operating data for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 have been derived from the historical Financial
Statements of the Company audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors.
The net income per weighted average Common Share amounts have been presented
and, where appropriate, restated as required to comply with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per Share. For a further
discussion of net income per weighted average Common Share and the impact of
Statement No. 128, see Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
as included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Certain capitalized terms as used
herein, are defined in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  CONSOLIDATED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
   (Financial information in thousands except for per share and property data)

 


 
                                    PART II

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (CONSOLIDATED HISTORICAL (CONTINUED))
 
(1)  Includes approximately $96.3 million and $36 million of construction in
     progress as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

(2)  In August 1995 the Company also made its $89 million mortgage note
     investment collateralized by 21 of the Additional Properties. In April
     1997, the Company made its $88 million mortgage note investment
     collateralized by five of the Additional Properties. In 1998, these
     properties were acquired and are no longer included as Additional
     Properties, but now are included as Properties. In addition, in October
     1998, the Company contributed six of the Additional Properties having a
     value of $52.7 million to six respective joint ventures. These 27
     Additional Properties consisted of 5,193 units at December 31, 1998. These
     26 Additional Properties consisted of 5,267 units at December 31, 1997. The
     Additional Properties are not included in these numbers.

(3)  The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the performance of
     real estate companies, including an equity REIT. The new definition of FFO
     adopted in March 1995 by the Board of Governors of the National Association
     of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines FFO as net income
     (loss) (computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles ("GAAP")), excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring
     and sales of property, plus depreciation on real estate assets, and after
     adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments
     for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to
     reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to
     investors as a measure of the performance of an equity REIT because, along
     with cash flows from operating activities, financing activities and
     investing activities, it provides investors an understanding of the ability
     of the Company to incur and service debt and to make capital expenditures.
     FFO, in and of itself, does not represent cash generated from operating
     activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered
     an alternative to net income as an indication of the Company's performance
     or to net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP as a
     measure of liquidity and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to
     fund cash needs. The Company's calculation of FFO represents net income
     available to Common Shares, excluding gains on dispositions of properties,
     gains on early extinguishment of debt, and write-off of unamortized costs
     on refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real estate assets, income
     allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of deferred financing
     costs related to the Predecessor Business. The Company's calculation of FFO
     may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other
     REIT's and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REIT's. The
     Company's calculation of FFO for 1995 and 1994 has been restated to reflect
     the effects of the new definition as mentioned above. FFO for the year
     ended December 31, 1994 includes the effect of a one-time charge of
     approximately $879,000 for the relocation of the property management
     headquarters to Chicago.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7.  OVERVIEW

     The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and
financial condition of the Company should be read in conjunction with "Selected
Financial Data" and the historical Consolidated Financial Statements thereto
appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Due to the Company's ability to control
the Operating Partnership, the Management Partnerships, the Financing
Partnerships and the LLCs, and Merry Land DownREIT I LP, each entity has been
consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.

     Forward-looking statements in this report are made pursuant to the safe
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The
words "believes", "expects" and "anticipates" and other similar expressions
which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends and which do not
relate solely to historical matters, identify forward-looking statements. Such
forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could
cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to differ
materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that might
cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the following:

  .  alternative sources of capital to the Company are higher than anticipated;
  .  occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by local
     economic and market conditions, which are beyond the Company's control; and
  .  additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-
     K. 

     Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  The Company undertakes no
obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking
statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date
hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Since EQR's IPO and through December 31, 1998, the Company has acquired
direct interests in 623 properties, of which six are under development (the
"Acquired Properties"), containing 175,031 units in the aggregate for a total
purchase price of approximately $10.4 billion, including the assumption of
approximately $2.6 billion of mortgage indebtedness and $845.9 million of
unsecured notes. The Company's interest in six of the Acquired Properties at the
time of acquisition thereof consisted solely of ownership of the debt
collateralized by such Acquired Properties.

     The Acquired Properties are presented in the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company from the date of each acquisition or the closing dates
of the Mergers.  In addition, in August 1995, the Company made its $89 million
mortgage note investment collateralized by 21 of the Additional Properties and
in October 1998, the Company contributed 6 of the Additional Properties having a
value of $52.7 million to six joint ventures.

     The following table summarizes the number of Acquired Properties and
related units acquired by year:


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

 

          From the IPO and through December 31, 1998, the Company disposed of 38
Properties and a portion of one Property, including five properties containing
1,254 units during 1996 (the "1996 Disposed Properties"); seven properties, a
portion of one property and a vacant land parcel containing 1,336 units during
1997 (the "1997 Disposed Properties"); and twenty properties containing 4,719
units during 1998 (the "1998 Disposed Properties").

          The Company's overall results of operations for the three years ended
December 31, 1998 have been significantly impacted by the Company's acquisition
activity. The significant changes in rental revenues, property and maintenance
expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, depreciation expense, property
management and interest expense can all primarily be attributed to the
acquisition of the Acquired Properties. The impact of the Acquired Properties is
discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

          Properties that the Company owned for all of both 1998 and 1997 (the
"1998 Same Store Properties") and Properties that the Company owned for all of
both 1997 and 1996 (the "1997 Same Store Properties") also impacted the
Company's results of operations and are discussed as well in the following
paragraphs.

       COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO THE YEAR ENDED 
       DECEMBER 31, 1997

          For the year ended December 31, 1998, income before gain on
disposition of properties and allocation to Minority Interests increased by $79
million when compared to the year ended December 31, 1997. This increase was
primarily due to increases in rental revenues net of increases in property and
maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, property management
expenses, depreciation expense, interest expense and general and administrative
expenses.

          In regard to the full year 1998 Same Store Properties, which
represents 63,243 units, rental income increased by approximately $23.1 million
to $527.3 million or 4.59% primarily as a result of higher rental rates charged
to new tenants and tenant renewals, a 1.01% increase in average economic
occupancy levels and an increase in income from billing tenants for their share
of utility costs. Overall, property operating expenses, which include property
and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance and an allocation of property
management expenses increased approximately $5.3 million or 2.65%. This increase
was primarily the result of higher compensation costs, leasing and advertising
costs, utilities, and maintenance charges.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Property management represents expenses associated with the self-management
of the Company's Properties. These expenses increased by approximately $25.9
million primarily due to the continued expansion of the Company's property
management business. The 1998 amounts include a full year effect of the various
offices the Company opened in 1997, including the Scottsdale Office, which had a
significant expansion resulting from the EWR Merger. During 1998, the Company
opened new management offices in Jacksonville and Orlando, Florida and the
Company assumed a management office in Augusta, Georgia, related to the MRY
Merger.

     Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management expenses are
associated with the management of properties not owned by the Company that are
managed for affiliates. These net revenues decreased by $0.9 million due to the
disposition of certain of these properties, resulting in the Company no longer
providing fee and asset management services to such properties.

     Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $125.5 million. This increase was primarily the
result of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which
increased by $1.9 billion. However, the Company's effective interest costs
decreased from 7.50% for the year ended December 31, 1997 to 7.10% for the year
ended December 31, 1998.

     General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $6.7 million between the periods under
comparison. This increase was primarily due to the addition of corporate
personnel in the Company's Human Resources, Accounting, Legal and Management
Information Systems groups, as well as higher compensation costs, shareholder
reporting costs and professional fees. However, by gaining certain economies of
scale with a much larger operation these expenses as a percentage of total
revenues were 1.62% for the year ended December 31, 1998 compared to 2.02% of
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1997.

 COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                        
     For the year ended December 31, 1997, income before gain on disposition of
properties, extraordinary item and allocation to Minority Interests increased by
$79 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 1996.  This increase
was primarily due to increases in rental revenues net of increases in property
and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, property management
expenses, depreciation, interest expense and general and administrative
expenses.  All of the increases in the various line item accounts mentioned
above can be primarily attributed to the 1997 Acquired Properties and 1996
Acquired Properties.  These increases were partially offset by the 1997 Disposed
Properties and the 1996 Disposed Properties.  The increase in interest income of
$7.5 million earned on the Company's mortgage note investments is primarily
attributable to its $88 million mortgage note investment as well as an increase
in interest income earned on its $89 million mortgage note investment.

     In regard to the 1997 Same Store Properties, which represents 49,805 units,
rental revenues increased by approximately $11.9 million or 3.1% primarily as a
result of higher rental rates charged to new tenants and tenant renewals.
Overall property operating expenses which include property and maintenance, real
estate taxes and insurance and an allocation of property management expenses
decreased approximately $1.5 million or 0.9%.  This decrease was primarily the
result of lower medical and health care insurance costs, which resulted in lower
payroll costs. In addition, the Company was successful in reducing its costs for
leasing and advertising as well as building, maintenance and grounds costs by
consolidating its vendor services in selected sub-markets in order to obtain
volume pricing discounts and by consolidating its 


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

personnel in selected sub-markets where Properties were centrally located. With
respect to the lower medical and health care insurance costs, the Company
believes this is not a sustainable trend but only benefited the 1997 results.

     Property management represents expenses associated with the management of
the Company's Properties. These expenses increased by approximately $9.3 million
primarily due to the continued expansion of the Company's property management
business to facilitate the management of the Company's Additional Properties.
During 1997, the Company opened new management offices in Houston, Texas;
Ypsilanti, Michigan; Kansas City, Kansas; Irvine, California; Minneapolis,
Minnesota; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Louisville, Kentucky. In addition, the
Company assumed a management office in Tulsa, Oklahoma, related to the Wellsford
Merger and significantly expanded a management office in Scottsdale, Arizona
related to the EWR Merger.

     Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management expenses are
associated with the management of properties not owned by the Company that are
managed for affiliates. These net revenues decreased by $0.6 million due to the
disposition of certain of these properties, resulting in the Company no longer
providing fee and asset management services to such properties.

     Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $38.3 million. This increase was primarily the result
of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which increased
by $564.5 million, primarily due to the Wellsford Merger. However, the Company's
effective interest costs decreased from 7.87% in 1996 to 7.5% in 1997.

     General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $5.2 million between the years under
comparison.  This increase was primarily due to adding corporate personnel,
higher salary costs and shareholder reporting costs as well as an increase in
professional fees.  General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total
revenues were 2.02% for the year ended December 31, 1997, which was a slight
decrease from 2.06% in 1996.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

     As of January 1, 1998, the Company had approximately $33.3 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $265 million available on its line of credit of which
$24.7 million was restricted. After taking into effect the various transactions
discussed in the following paragraphs, cash and cash equivalents at December 31,
1998 were approximately $4 million and the amounts available on the Company's
lines of credit were $330 million of which $12 million was restricted. The
following discussion also explains the changes in net cash provided by operating
activities, net cash (used for) investing activities and net cash provided by
financing activities, all of which are presented in the Company's Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows.

     Part of the Company's strategy in funding the purchase of multifamily
properties, funding its Properties in the development stage and the funding of
the Company's investment in a joint venture with a multifamily real estate
developer, excluding those Properties acquired through the Mergers, is to
utilize its line of credit and to subsequently repay the line of credit from the
issuance of additional equity or debt securities or the disposition of
Properties. Utilizing this strategy during 1998 the Company: 


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

     .    issued a total of approximately 8.5 million Common Shares through
          various offerings and received total net proceeds of $412.5 million;
     .    issued the 2015 Notes, the August 2003 Notes and the 2000 Notes and
          received net proceeds of $542.3 million;
     .    mortgaged fifteen previously unencumbered Properties and received
          net proceeds of $223.5 million; and
     .    disposed of twenty properties, which generated net proceeds of
          approximately $177 million.

All of these proceeds were utilized to either:
     .    purchase additional properties;
     .    provide funding for properties in the development stage; and/or
     .    repay the lines of credit and mortgage indebtedness on certain
          Properties.

     With respect to the 1998 Acquired Properties, the Company issued 21.8
million Common Shares having a value of $1.0 billion and issued the following
preferred shares having a combined liquidation value of $369.1 million:

     .    Series H Preferred Shares;
     .    Series I Preferred Shares;
     .    Series J Preferred Shares;
     .    Series K Preferred Shares; and
     .    Series L Preferred Shares.

     The Company also assumed mortgage indebtedness, unsecured notes and a line
of credit of approximately $1.2 billion, issued OP Units having a value of
approximately $205.2 million and issued Junior Convertible Preference Units
having a value of approximately $4.8 million. The cash portion of these
acquisitions were primarily funded from amounts drawn on the Company's lines of
credit and proceeds received in connection with the transactions mentioned in
the previous paragraphs.

     In December 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with
a multifamily residential real estate developer whereby the Company will make
investments in a limited partnership to fund its portion of the project cost.
During 1997 and 1998, the Company funded a total of $6.9 million and $23.9
million and during 1999 the Company expects to fund approximately $74.9 
million in connection with this agreement. Subsequent to December 31, 1998, the
Company has funded approximately $1 million. In addition, the Company also
funded $20 million to guarantee third party construction financing and is
obligated to fund up to an additional $20 million.

     In regards to certain other properties that were under development and/or
expansion in 1998, the Company funded $31.6 million.  In 1999, the Company
expects to fund $53.9 million related to the continued development and/or
expansion of as many as five Properties.

     In regards to certain properties that were under earnout/development
agreements in 1998, no amounts were funded. The Company expects to fund $60.4
million related to three earnout/development projects expected to be finished
during 1999. Subsequent to December 31, 1998, the Company has funded $16.2
million relating to the completion/acquisition of Copper Canyon. In addition,
the Company may be required to fund an additional $1 million earnout payment to
the developer for Copper Canyon if certain specified operation levels are met.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company had total indebtedness of
approximately $4.7 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $2.3 billion
(including premiums of $4.5 million), of which $878.3 million represented tax-
exempt bond indebtedness, and unsecured debt of $2.3 billion (net of a $5.3
million discount), of which $35.6 million represented tax-exempt bond
indebtedness.  During the year, the Company repaid an aggregate of $63.8 million
of mortgage indebtedness on nine of its Properties.  These repayments were
funded from the Company's line of credit or from proceeds received from the
various capital transactions mentioned in the previous paragraphs.

     The Company has, from time to time, entered into interest rate protection
agreements (financial instruments) to reduce the potential impact of increases
in interest rates but believes it has limited exposure to the extent of non-
performance by the counterparties of each protection agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance.  No such financial instrument has been used
for trading purposes.

     In February 1996, the Company entered into a Forward Starting Swap
agreement that will hedge the Company's interest rate risk at maturity of $125
million of indebtedness.  This agreement hedged the interest rate risk of the
Operating Partnership's 1999 Notes by locking the effective four-year Treasury
Rate commencing May 15, 1999.

     In August 1996, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's 2026 Notes.
The agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a locked in
treasury rate of 7.57%.

     In July 1997, the Company entered into two interest rate protection
agreements to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's 2001 Notes
and 2003 Notes.  One agreement was for a notional amount of $100 million with a
locked in treasury rate of 6.134%. The second agreement was for a notional
amount of $75 million with a locked in treasury rate of 6.287%.

     In April 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's 2015 Notes.
The agreement was for a notional amount of $300 million with a locked in
treasury rate of 6.63%.

     In May 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection agreement
to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Evans Withycombe Financing
Limited Partnership indebtedness to within a range of 5.6% to 6.0% upon its 
refinancing. The agreement was for a notional amount of $131 million with a
settlement date of August 2001. There was no initial cost to the Company for
entering into this agreement.

     In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's planned
financing in the fourth quarter of 1998.  This agreement was cancelled in
November at a cost of approximately $3.7 million.  This cost is being amortized
over the life of the financing for the 15 previously unencumbered Properties
that occurred in November 1998.

     In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the Operating
Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of 3.65125%.
This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a termination date
of August 2003.

     In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
that fixed the 


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the Operating Partnership's
variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of 3.683%. This agreement
was for a notional amount of $150 million with a termination date of August
2005.

     The fair value of these instruments, discussed above, as of December 31,
1998 approximates their carrying or contract values.

     The Company has a policy of capitalizing expenditures made for new assets,
including newly acquired properties and the costs associated with placing these
assets into service. Expenditures for improvements and renovations that
significantly enhance the value of existing assets or substantially extend the
useful life of an asset are also capitalized.  Capital spent for replacement-
type items such as appliances, draperies, carpeting and floor coverings,
mechanical equipment and certain furniture and fixtures is also capitalized.
Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as
incurred.  With respect to acquired properties, the Company has determined that
it generally spends $1,000 per unit during its first three years of ownership to
fully improve and enhance these properties to meet the Company's standards.  In
regard to replacement-type items described above, the Company generally expects
to spend $250 per unit on an annual recurring basis.

     During the year ended December 31, 1998, total capital expenditures for the
Company approximated $102 million.  Of this amount, approximately $34.1 million
related to capital improvements and major repairs for the 1996, 1997 and 1998
Acquired Properties.  Capital improvements and major repairs for all of the
Company's pre-EQR IPO properties and 1993, 1994 and 1995 Acquired Properties
approximated $17.1 million, or $338 per unit.  Capital spent for replacement-
type items approximated $39.4 million, or $257 per unit, which is in line with
the Company's expected annual recurring per unit cost.  Also included in total
capital expenditures was approximately $11.4 million expended for non-real
estate additions such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture
and fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company's property management
offices and its corporate headquarters. Such capital expenditures were primarily
funded from working capital reserves and from net cash provided by operating
activities.  Total capital expenditures for 1999 are budgeted to be
approximately $110 million for all properties or $588 per unit.

     Minority Interests as of December 31, 1998 increased by $158 million when
compared to December 31, 1997.  The primary factors that impacted this account
during the year were distributions declared to Minority Interests, which
amounted to $30.8 million for the year, the allocation of its income from
operations in the amount of $18.5 million, the conversion of OP Units into
Common Shares, the assumption of MRY's minority interest with a market value of
$40.2 million, and issuances of Common Shares and OP Units during the year.

     Total distributions paid in 1998 amounted to $404.5 million, which included
certain distributions declared in the fourth quarters of 1997 and 1998.  The
Company paid a $0.71 per Common Share distribution on December 31, 1998 for the
quarter ended December 31, 1998 to Common Shareholders and Minority Interest
holders of record as of December 20, 1998.
 
     Subsequent to December 31, 1998 and through March 12, 1999, the Company
acquired five additional properties representing 1,246 units for a total
purchase price of approximately $86.6 million, including the assumption of
approximately $16.9 million of mortgage indebtedness. These acquisitions were
primarily funded from the proceeds obtained from the sale of certain Properties
in 1998 and 1999. The Company is always seeking to acquire additional
multifamily properties with physical and market


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

characteristics similar to the Properties.

     Subsequent to December 31, 1998 and through March 12, 1999, the Company
disposed of six Properties for a total sales price of $64 million.  These
proceeds will be utilized to purchase additional Properties.  The Company
anticipates that it will continue to sell certain Properties in the portfolio.

     The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements,
including capital expenditures relating to maintaining its existing Properties
and the funding of Properties in the development stage, generally through its
working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under
its lines of credit.  The Company considers its cash provided by operating
activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of
distributions. The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity
requirements, such as scheduled mortgage debt maturities, reduction of
outstanding amounts under its lines of credit, property acquisitions, financing
of construction and development activities and capital improvements through the
issuance of unsecured notes and equity securities including additional OP Units
as well as from undistributed FFO and proceeds received from the disposition of
certain Properties. In addition, the Company has certain uncollateralized
Properties available for additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the
public capital markets are unavailable to the Company or the cost of alternative
sources of capital to the Company is too high.

     The Company has a revolving credit facility with Morgan Guaranty and Bank
of America (as co-agents) to provide the Operating Partnership, with potential
borrowings of up to $500 million. This credit facility matures in November 1999
and will continue to be used to fund property acquisitions and short term
liquidity requirements. As of March 12, 1999, $145 million was outstanding under
this facility.

     In connection with the MRY Merger, the Company assumed a second revolving
credit facility with First Union Bank (as agent) with potential borrowings of up
to $120 million. This credit facility matures in September 2000 and will also be
used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain Properties under
development and short term liquidity requirements. As of March 12, 1999, $35
million was outstanding under this facility.

     In connection with the Wellsford Merger, the Company provided a $14.8
million credit enhancement with respect to bonds issued to finance certain
public improvements at a multifamily development project.  Pursuant to the terms
of a Stock Purchase Agreement with Wellsford Real Properties, Inc. ("WRP
Newco"), the Company will agree to purchase up to 1,000,000 shares of WRP Newco
Series A Preferred at $25.00 per share over a three-year period ending on May
30, 2000. As of March 12, 1999, no shares of WRP Newco Series A Preferred had 
been acquired by the Company.

     In conjunction with the MRY Merger in October 1998, the Company entered
into six joint venture agreements with MRYP Spinco, the entity spun-off in the
MRY Merger.  The Company contributed six properties with an initial value of
$52.7 million in return for a 50% ownership interest in each joint venture.  In
return for the spin-off of certain assets and liabilities to MRYP Spinco, the
Company received (from MRYP Spinco) a Subordinated Note receivable totaling $20
million, a preferred stock investment with an initial value of $5 million and a
$25 million, one year, non-revolving Senior Note receivable.  At December 31,
1998 approximately $18.3 million was outstanding on the Senior Note, bearing
interest at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.  The Company has a potential obligation
to fund up to an additional $6.7 million under the Senior Note.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

     As of January 1, 1997, the Company had approximately $147.3 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $250 million available on its line of credit.  After
taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following
paragraphs, cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 1997 were approximately
$33.3 million and the amounts available on the Company's line of credit were
$265 million, of which $24.7 million is restricted.  In addition, the Company
had $6.6 million of proceeds from a property sale included in deposits-
restricted.  The following discussion also explains the changes in net cash
provided by operating activities, net cash (used for) investing activities and
net cash provided by financing activities, all of which are presented in the
Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

     Part of the Company's strategy in funding the purchase of multifamily
properties, excluding those Properties acquired through the Mergers, is to
utilize its line of credit and to subsequently repay the line of credit from the
issuance of additional equity or debt securities. Utilizing this strategy during
1997 the Company:

     .    issued a total of approximately 11.9 million Common Shares through
          various offerings, other than issuances in connection with the
          acquisitions of Properties and received total net proceeds of
          approximately $536.8 million;
     .    completed the offerings of the Series D Preferred Shares and the
          Series G Preferred Shares and received net proceeds of approximately
          $473.1 million; and
     .    issued the 2017 Notes, the 2001 Notes and the 2003 Notes and received
          net proceeds of approximately $345.9 million.

     With respect to Property acquisitions during 1997, including the effects of
the Mergers, the Company purchased 252 Properties containing 68,830 units for a
total purchase price of approximately $4.1 billion, including the issuances of
25.1 million Common Shares, the assumption of EWR's minority interest with a
market value of approximately $107.3 million, the liquidation value of $157.5
million for the Series E Preferred Shares and Series F Preferred Shares, the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes of approximately $1.3
billion and issuance of OP Units with a value of approximately $5.3 million. The
cash portion of these acquisitions were primarily funded from amounts drawn on
the Company's line of credit and proceeds received in connection with the
transactions mentioned in the previous paragraph.

     During the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company also disposed of seven
properties, a portion of one Property and a vacant land parcel, which generated
net proceeds of approximately $35.8 million. Proceeds from the dispositions were
ultimately applied to purchase additional Properties.

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company had total indebtedness of
approximately $2.9 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $1.6 billion
(including premiums of $3.9 million), of which $723 million represented tax
exempt bond indebtedness, and unsecured debt of $1.4 billion (including net
discounts and premiums in the amount of $5.7 million). During the year, the
Company repaid an aggregate of $113.4 million of mortgage indebtedness on 29 of
its Properties. In addition, the $100 million of floating rate notes due
December 22, 1997 were repaid at maturity. These repayments were funded from the
Company's line of credit or from proceeds received from the various capital
transactions mentioned in previous paragraphs.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

     During the year ended December 31, 1997, total capital expenditures for the
Company approximated $60 million.  Of this amount, approximately $9.5 million
related to capital improvements and major repairs for certain of the 1995, 1996
and 1997 Acquired Properties. Capital improvements and major repairs for all of
the Company's pre- EQR IPO properties and certain Acquired Properties
approximated $19.4 million, or $217 per unit.  Capital spent for replacement-
type items approximated $21.4 million, or $239 per unit, which is in line with
the Company's expected annual recurring per unit cost.  Also included in total
capital expenditures was approximately $9.7 million expended for non-real estate
additions such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and
fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company's property management
offices and its corporate headquarters.  Such capital expenditures were
primarily funded from working capital reserves and from net cash provided by
operating activities.

     Minority Interests as of December 31, 1997 increased by $122.8 million when
compared to December 31, 1996.  The primary factors that impacted this account
during the year were the assumption of the EWR minority interest having a market
value of $107.3 million, distributions declared to Minority Interests, which
amounted to $19.1 million for the year, the allocation of its income from
operations in the amount of $13.3 million, the conversion of OP Units into
Common Shares and issuances of Common Shares during the year.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The year 2000 issue ("Year 2000") is the result of computer programs being
written using two digits rather than four to define the applicable year.  Any of
the Company's computer programs that have time-sensitive hardware and software
may recognize a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000.
This could result in a system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of
operations, including, among other things, a temporary inability to process
transactions, collect rents, or engage in similar normal business activities.

     The Company believes that it has identified all of its information
technology ("IT") and non-IT systems to assess their Year 2000 readiness.
Critical systems include, but are not limited to:  accounts receivable and rent
collections, accounts payable and general ledger, human resources and payroll
(both property and corporate levels), cash management, fixed assets, all IT
hardware (such as desktop/laptop computers, data networking equipment, telephone
systems, fax machines, copy machines, etc.) and software, and property
environmental, health safety and security systems (such as elevators and alarm
systems).

     The Company anticipates that previously scheduled system upgrades to many
of its IT systems will remediate any existing Year 2000 problems.  The Company
is currently in the process of testing and implementing the majority of its Year
2000 IT and non-IT system projects with completion anticipated during the second
or third quarter of 1999.  The Company has estimated that the total Year 2000
project cost will approximate $1 million, of which approximately 70% has been
incurred as of December 31, 1998.  During the fourth quarter of 1998, the
primary focus of the Year 2000 remediation efforts was on testing and
implementing existing and new IT systems and on assessing the Company's exposure
regarding non-IT systems at property sites.  Of the remaining $300,000 budgeted
to complete the Company's Year 2000 remediation project, approximately $150,000
has been allocated to engage Year 2000 consultants to help the Company monitor
its IT compliance progress and to complete final IT testing and implementation.
The remaining $150,000 has been allocated to remediate non-IT systems at various
property sites.  The estimates are based on management's best estimates, which
were derived utilizing numerous assumptions of


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


YEAR 2000 ISSUE (CONTINUED)

future events, and there can be no guarantees that these estimates will be
achieved.

     In some cases, various third party vendors have been queried on their Year
2000 readiness. The Company continues to query its significant suppliers and
vendors to determine the extent to which the Company's interface systems are
vulnerable to those third parties' failure to remediate their own Year 2000
issues.  To date, the Company is not aware of any significant suppliers or
vendors with a Year 2000 issue that would materially impact the Company's
results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources.  However, there can be
no assurances that the systems of other companies, on which the Company's
systems rely, will be timely converted and would not have an adverse effect on
the Company's systems.

     Management of the Company believes it has an effective program in place to
resolve the Year 2000 issue in a timely manner.  In addition, the Company has
commenced its contingency planning for critical operational areas that might be
affected by the Year 2000 issue if compliance by the Company is delayed.  Aside
from catastrophic failure of banks or governmental agencies, the Company
believes that it could continue its normal business operations if compliance by
the Company is delayed.  The Company does not believe that the Year 2000 issue
will materially impact its results of operations, liquidity or capital
resources.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

     Commencing in 1996, the Company implemented the new definition of FFO
adopted by the Board of Governors of NAREIT in March 1995.  The new definition
primarily eliminates the amortization of deferring financing costs and
depreciation of non-real estate assets as items added back to net income when
calculating FFO.

     The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the performance of
real estate companies including an equity REIT.  The resolution adopted by the
Board of Governors of NAREIT defines FFO as net income (loss) (computed in
accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and
sales of property, plus depreciation on real estate assets, and after
adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on
the same basis. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a
measure of the performance of an equity REIT because, along with cash flows from
operating activities, financing activities and investing activities, it provides
investors an understanding of the ability of the Company to incur and service
debt and to make capital expenditures.  FFO in and of itself does not represent
cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore
should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of the
Company's performance or to net cash flows from operating activities as
determined by GAAP as a measure of liquidity and is not necessarily indicative
of cash available to fund cash needs.  The Company's calculation of FFO
represents net income available to Common Shares, excluding gains on
dispositions of properties, gains on early extinguishment of debt, and write-off
of unamortized costs on refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real estate
assets, income allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of deferred
financing costs related to the Predecessor Business.  The Company's calculation
of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other
REIT's and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REIT's.

     For the year ended December 31, 1998, FFO increased $188.1 million
representing a 69.5% increase when compared to the year ended December 31, 1997.
For the year ended December 31, 1997, FFO increased by $110.5 million
representing a 69% increase when compared to the year ended


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

December 31, 1996.

          The following is a reconciliation of net income available to Common
Shares to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 (amounts are in thousands):

 

*   Includes $183,000 related to the Company's share of depreciation from 
    unconsolidated joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 1998.


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company's future earnings, cash flows and fair values relevant to
financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market rates.  Market risk is
the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates.  The
Company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from
operating properties, financing activities and investing activities with
projected cash outflows to fund debt payments, acquisitions, capital
expenditures, distributions and other cash requirements.  The Company also
utilizes certain derivative financial instruments to limit market risk.
Interest rate protection agreements are used to convert floating rate debt to a
fixed rate basis. Derivatives are used for hedging purposes rather than
speculation.  The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading
purposes.

     The Company has total outstanding debt of approximately $4.7 billion at
December 31, 1998, of which approximately $840 million, or 18%, is floating rate
debt, including the effects of any interest rate protector agreements. If market
rates of interest on the Company's floating rate debt increase by 54 basis
points (a 10% increase), the increase in interest expense on the Company's
floating rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by
approximately $4.5 million. If market rates of interest on the Company's
floating rate debt decrease by 54 basis points (a 10% decrease), the decrease in
interest expense on the Company's floating rate debt would increase future
earnings and cash flows by approximately $4.5 million.

     These amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical
interest rates and equity prices on the Company's financial instruments.  These
analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic
activity that could exist in such an environment.  Further, in the event of a
change of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to further
mitigate its exposure to the change.  However, due to the uncertainty of the
specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis
assumes no changes in the Company's financial structure.


 
                                    PART II

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this Form 10-
K.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


 
                                   PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 AND 13.

TRUSTEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT, EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION,
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIP AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information required by Item 10, Item 11, Item 12 and Item 13 are
incorporated by reference to, and will be contained in, the Company's definitive
proxy statement, which the Company anticipates will be filed no later than March
31, 1999, and thus these items have been omitted in accordance with General
Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.


 
                                    PART IV
 
     ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)
     (1 & 2) See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 of this
     Form 10-K.

     (3)  Exhibits:

2.1++++      Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Equity Residential
             Properties Trust and Wellsford Residential Property Trust dated as
             of January 16, 1997
2.2#         Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential Properties
             Trust and Wellsford Residential Property Trust
2.3##        Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Equity Residential
             Properties Trust and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc. dated as of
             August 27, 1997
2.4###       Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential Properties
             Trust and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc.
2.5/\        Agreement and Plan of Merger and First Amendment Thereto by and
             between Equity Residential Properties Trust and Merry Land &
             Investment Company, Inc. dated as of July 8, 1998 and September 4,
             1998, respectively.
2.6/\/\      Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential Properties
             Trust and Merry Land & Investment Company, Inc.
3.1+++       Second Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Equity
             Residential Properties Trust dated May 30, 1997
3.2+++       Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Equity Residential Properties
             Trust
4.1**        Indenture, dated as of May 16, 1994, by and among the Operating
             Partnership, as obligor, the Company, as guarantor and The First
             National Bank of Chicago, as trustee in connection with 81/2%
             senior notes due May 15, 1999
4.2**        Indenture, dated October 1, 1994, between the Operating
             Partnership, as obligor and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
             trustee in connection with up to $500 million of debt securities
10.1***      Fifth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP
             Operating Limited Partnership
10.2*        Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential Properties
             Management Limited Partnership
10.3****     Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential Properties
             Management Limited Partnership II
10.4*        Noncompetition Agreement (Zell)
10.5*        Noncompetition Agreement (Crocker)
10.6*        Noncompetition Agreement (Spector)
10.7*        Form of Noncompetition Agreement (other officers)
10.8*        Services Agreement between Equity Residential Properties Trust and
             Equity Group Investments, Inc.
10.9*        Form of Property Management Agreement (REIT properties)
10.10**      Form of Property Management Agreement (Non-REIT properties)
10.11+       Amended and Restated Master Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of
             November 1, 1996 by and between Federal National Mortgage
             Association and EQR-Bond Partnership
10.12++      Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of
             September 9, 1997 among the Operating Partnership and Morgan
             Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as lead agent, Bank of America
             National Trust and Savings Association, as co-lead agent, The First
             National Bank of Chicago, as co-agent, U.S. Bank National
             Association f/k/a and d/b/a First Bank National Association, as co-
             agent and NationsBank of Texas, N.A., as co-agent
10.13####    Consulting Agreement dated August 27, 1997 between Equity
             Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership and Stephen
             O. Evans


 
                                    PART IV
 
10.14####    Employment Agreement dated August 27, 1997 between Equity
             Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership and Richard
             G. Berry
10.15        Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
             Partnership of Evans Withycombe Residential, LP
12           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21           List of Subsidiaries of Equity Residential Properties Trust
23.1         Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
24.1         Power of Attorney for John W. Alexander dated March 12, 1999
24.2         Power of Attorney for James D. Harper, Jr. dated March 12, 1999
24.3         Power of Attorney for Errol R. Halperin dated March 12, 1999
24.4         Power of Attorney for B. Joseph White dated March 12, 1999
24.5         Power of Attorney for Henry H. Goldberg dated March 12, 1999
24.6         Power of Attorney for Edward Lowenthal dated March 12, 1999
24.7         Power of Attorney for Jeffrey H. Lynford dated March 12, 1999
24.8         Power of Attorney for Stephen O. Evans dated March 12, 1999
24.9         Power of Attorney for Boone A. Knox dated March 12, 1999
24.10        Power of Attorney for Michael N. Thompson dated March 12, 1999
_______________

*    Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-11 Registration Statement,
     File No. 33-63158, and incorporated herein by reference.
**   Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form 10/A, dated
     December 12, 1994, File No. 0-24920, and incorporated herein by reference.
***  Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form 8-K/A dated July
     23, 1998, filed on August 18, 1998.
**** Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
     December 31, 1994.
+    Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
     December 31, 1996.
++   Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated September 10, 1997,
     filed on September 10, 1997.
+++  Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated May 30, 1997, filed
     on June 5, 1997.
++++ Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated January 16, 1997,
     filed on January 17, 1997.
#    Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on April 29, 1997.
##   Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated August 27, 1997,
     filed on August 29, 1997.
###  Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on September 18,
     1997.
#### Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-4 filed on September 18,
     1997.
/\   Included as Appendix A in the Company's Form S-4 filed on September 14,
     1998.
/\/\ Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on September 14,
     1998.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

A Report on Form 8-K dated October 19, 1998, reporting the approval of and the
completion of the merger between Equity Residential Properties Trust and Merry
Land & Investment Company, Inc.

(c)  Exhibits:
          See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules:

          See Index to Financial Statements attached hereto on page F-1 of this
Form 10-K.


 
                                    PART IV

                                  SIGNATURES
                                  ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


                                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

 


Date: March 12, 1999                    By: /s/   Douglas Crocker II
      --------------                        ----------------------------------
                                                  Douglas Crocker II
                                           President, Chief Executive Officer,
                                             Trustee and *Attorney-in-Fact



Date: March 12, 1999                    By: /s/     David J. Neithercut
      --------------                        ----------------------------------
                                                    David J. Neithercut
                                             Executive Vice-President and
                                               Chief Financial Officer


Date: March 12, 1999                    By: /s/     Michael J. McHugh
      --------------                        ----------------------------------
                                                    Michael J. McHugh
                                      Executive Vice-President, Chief Accounting
                                       Officer, Treasurer and *Attorney-in-fact


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/      Samuel Zell
      ---------------                        ---------------------------------
                                                      Samuel Zell
                                             Chairman of the Board of Trustees
 

Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       Gerald A. Spector
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                       Gerald A. Spector
                                              Executive Vice-President, Chief
                                               Operating Officer and Trustee

 
Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       Sheli Z. Rosenberg
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                       Sheli Z. Rosenberg
                                                            Trustee


 
                                    PART IV

                             SIGNATURES-CONTINUED
                             --------------------
                                        

Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       James D. Harper
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                      James D. Harper
                                                          Trustee


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       Errol R. Halperin
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                       Errol R. Halperin
                                                            Trustee


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/      John W. Alexander
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                      John W. Alexander
                                                           Trustee


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       B. Joseph White
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                       B. Joseph White
                                                          Trustee


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/      Henry H. Goldberg
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                      Henry H. Goldberg
                                                          Trustee



Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/      Jeffrey H. Lynford
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                      Jeffrey H. Lynford
                                                            Trustee


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       Edward Lowenthal
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                       Edward Lowenthal
                                                           Trustee


Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/       Stephen O. Evans
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                       Stephen O. Evans
                                                            Trustee



Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/        Boone A. Knox
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                        Boone A. Knox
                                                           Trustee


                                        
Date: March 12, 1999                    By:  /s/      Michael N. Thompson
      --------------                         ---------------------------------
                                                      Michael N. Thompson
                                                           Trustee


 
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
                                        

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                                        



                                             
                                                                   PAGE
                                                                   ----

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT
 
      Report of Independent Auditors..............................  F-2
 
      Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
         December 31, 1998 and 1997...............................  F-3
 
      Consolidated Statements of Operations for
         the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.........  F-4
 
      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
         the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.........  F-5 to F-6
 
      Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
         for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.....  F-7
 
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................  F-8 to F-52
 
SCHEDULE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

      Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation.....  S-1 to S-12

                                      F-1

 
                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS




To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Equity Residential Properties Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity
Residential Properties Trust (the "Company") as of December 31, 1998 and 1997
and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1998.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the Index at Item 14(a).  These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity
Residential Properties Trust at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.



                                           ERNST & YOUNG LLP



Chicago, Illinois
February 17, 1999
except for Note 24, as to which the date is
March 5, 1999

                                      F-2

 

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR SHARE AMOUNTS)

 

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-3



                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
               (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)

 

                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-4


 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

 

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-5


 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST 
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


 

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-6


 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

 

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-7


 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1. ORGANIZATION AND FORMATION OF THE COMPANY

   Equity Residential Properties Trust, formed in March 1993, ("EQR"), is a
self-administered and self-managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").
As used herein, the term "Company" means EQR, and its subsidiaries, as the
survivor of the mergers between EQR and each of Wellsford Residential Property
Trust ("Wellsford") (the "Wellsford Merger"), Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc.
("EWR") (the "EWR Merger") and Merry Land & Investment Company, Inc. ("MRY")
(the "MRY Merger") (see Note 3).  The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT
under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code 1986, as amended (the "Code").
As a result, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax to
the extent it distributes 95% of its taxable income to its shareholders.  REIT's
are subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements.  If the
Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any year, its taxable income may be
subject to income tax at regular corporate rates (including any applicable
alternative minimum tax). Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT,
the Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and
excise taxes on its undistributed income.

   The Company is engaged in the acquisition, disposition, ownership, management
and operation of multifamily properties.  As of December 31, 1998, the Company
controlled a portfolio of 654 multifamily properties (individually a "Property"
and collectively the "Properties") containing 187,002 apartment units.  The
Company's interest in six of these Properties at the time of acquisition thereof
consisted solely of ownership of debt collateralized by such Properties.  The
Company also has an investment in partnership interests and subordinated
mortgages collateralized by 21 properties and an investment in six joint
ventures consisting of six properties (collectively, the "Additional
Properties").  The Properties and Additional Properties are located throughout
the United States in the following 35 states:  Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana,
Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington
and Wisconsin.

   The Company has formed a series of partnerships (the "Financing
Partnerships") which beneficially own certain Properties encumbered by mortgage
indebtedness. In general, these are structured so that ERP Operating Limited
Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), a subsidiary of EQR, owns a 1%
limited partner interest and a 98% general partner interest in each with the
remaining 1% general partner interest in each Financing Partnership is owned by
various qualified REIT subsidiaries wholly owned by the Company (each a "QRS
Corporation"). Rental income from the Properties that are beneficially owned by
a Financing Partnership is used first to service the applicable mortgage debt
and pay other operating expenses and any excess is then distributed 1% to the
applicable QRS Corporation, as the general partner of such Financing
Partnership, and 99% to the Operating Partnership, as the sole 1% limited
partner and as the 98% general partner. The Company has also formed a series of
limited liability companies that own certain Properties and one that has an
investment in partnership interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by
21 of the Additional Properties (collectively, the "LLCs"). The Operating
Partnership is a 99% managing member of each LLC and a QRS Corporation is a 1%
member of each LLC.

                                      F-8

 
                   EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


   As of December 31, 1998, 700 Properties were managed by either Equity
Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership, the successor to the
multifamily residential management services (the "Management Business")
contributed by Equity Properties Management Corp. ("EPMC") contemporaneously
with the Company's initial public offering (the "EQR IPO"), or Equity
Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership II (collectively, the
"Management Partnerships").  The Management Partnerships collect a property
management fee consistent with a reasonable arms-length charge for the
performance of such services.  The sole general partner of the Management
Partnerships with a 1% interest is the Operating Partnership.  The sole limited
partners of the Management Partnerships are Equity Residential Properties
Management Corp. ("Management Corp.") and Equity Residential Properties
Management Corp. II ("Management Corp. II"), respectively, and each has a 99%
interest in the respective partnership.

2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

   The Wellsford Merger, the EWR Merger and the MRY Merger (collectively, the
"Mergers") were treated as purchases in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 16.  The fair value of the consideration given by the Company
in the Mergers was used as the valuation basis for each of the combinations.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of Wellsford were recorded at
their relative fair values as of May 30, 1997 (the "Wellsford Closing Date").
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of EWR were recorded at their
relative fair values as of December 23, 1997 (the "EWR Closing Date").  The
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of MRY were recorded at their
relative fair values as of October 19, 1998 (the "MRY Closing Date").  The
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include the
results of the Properties purchased through the Mergers from their respective
closing dates.

   Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either through
ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership, the Management Partnerships,
the Financing Partnerships, the LLCs and Merry Land DownREIT I LP, each such
entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.
In regard to Management Corp., Management Corp. II, Evans Withycombe Management,
Inc. and ML Services, Inc., the Company does not have legal control; however,
these entities are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, the effects of
which are immaterial. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior
year's financial statements in order to conform to the current year
presentation.

3. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

   In connection with the Wellsford Merger each outstanding common share of
beneficial interest of Wellsford was converted into .625 of a Common Share of
the Company.  In addition, Wellsford's Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 3,999,800
Series E Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01
par value per share (the "Series E Preferred Shares") and Wellsford's Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated
as the Company's 2,300,000 9.65% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares
of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series F Preferred
Shares").

   On the Wellsford Closing Date, 72 Properties containing 19,004 units and
other related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of approximately
$1 billion.  The purchase price consisted of 10.8 million common shares of
beneficial interest, $.01 par value per share ("Common Shares") issued by the
Company with a market value of $443.7 million, the liquidation value of $157.5
million for the Series E Preferred Shares and the Series F Preferred Shares, the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in 

                                      F-9

 
                   EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

the amount of $345 million, the assumption of other liabilities of approximately
$33.5 million and other merger related costs of approximately $23.4 million.

   On the EWR Closing Date, 53 Properties containing 15,331 units and three
Properties under construction or expansion containing 953 units and other
related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of approximately $1.2
billion.  In connection with the EWR Merger, as of the EWR Closing Date, each
outstanding common share of beneficial interest of EWR was converted into .50 of
a Common Share of the Company.  The purchase price consisted of 10.3 million
Common Shares issued by the Company with a total market value of approximately
$501.6 million, the assumption of EWR's minority interest with a market value of
approximately $107.3 million, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness and
unsecured notes in the amount of $498 million, the assumption of other
liabilities of approximately $28.2 million and other EWR Merger related costs of
approximately $16.7 million.

   In connection with the MRY Merger, each outstanding common share of
beneficial interest of MRY was converted into 0.53 of a Common Share of the
Company. In addition, MRY spun-off certain assets and liabilities to Merry Land
Properties, Inc. ("MRYP Spinco"). As partial consideration for the transfer, the
Company extended a $25 million, one year, non-revolving Senior Debt Agreement to
MRYP Spinco. At December 31, 1998, approximately $18.3 million was outstanding,
bearing interest at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.

   In addition, MRY Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 164,951 Series H
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series H Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the
Company's 4,000,000 Series I Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series I Preferred
Shares"), the MRY Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 4,599,400 Series J Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series J Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series D Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
1,000,000 Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series K Preferred Shares") and the
MRY Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were
redesignated as the Company's 4,000,000 Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series L
Preferred Shares").

   On the MRY Closing Date, 108 Properties containing 32,315 units, four
Properties under construction or expansion expected to contain 1,378 units, six
Additional Properties that represent an investment in six joint ventures
containing 1,297 units and other related assets were acquired for a total
purchase price of approximately $2.2 billion.  The purchase price consisted of
21.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value of $1
billion, the assumption of MRY's minority interest with a market value of
approximately $40.2 million, the liquidation value of $369.1 million for the
Series H Preferred Shares, the Series I Preferred Shares, the Series J Preferred
Shares, the Series K Preferred Shares and the Series L Preferred Shares, the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness, unsecured notes and a line of credit in the
amount of $723.5 million, the assumption of other liabilities of approximately
$46.5 million and other merger related costs of approximately $52 million.

   All of the amounts stated in the previous paragraphs are based on
management's current best estimates, which are subject to adjustment within one
year of the respective closing dates.

                                      F-10

 
                   EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


4. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND MINORITY INTERESTS

    In January 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,725,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.375 per share (the "January
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million in connection therewith.

    Also in January 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register 1,676,423 Common Shares which may be sold by the holders
thereof or by holders of partnership interests ("OP Units") upon the issuance of
Common Shares in exchange for such OP Units.

    In February 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.50 per share (the "February
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $67.8
million in connection therewith.

    On May 21, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.50 per share.
On May 28, 1996, the Company completed the sale of 73,287 publicly registered
Common Shares to employees of the Company and to employees of Equity Group
Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries ("EGI") and certain of their
respective affiliates and consultants at a net price equal to $30.50 per share.
On May 30, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,264,400 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.75 per share.
The Company received net proceeds of approximately $111.3 million in connection
with the sale of the 3,637,687 Common Shares mentioned above (collectively, the
"May 1996 Common Share Offerings").

    On June 26, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register 608,665 Common Shares which may be issued by the Company
to holders of 608,665 OP Units.  The SEC declared this Registration effective on
September 6, 1996.

    On September 18, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the "1996
Equity Shelf Registration"). The SEC declared this Registration effective on
September 23, 1996.

    In September 1996, the Company completed the sale of 2,272,728 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $33 per share. The
Company received net proceeds of approximately $75 million in connection with
this offering (the "September 1996 Common Share Offering").

    On September 27, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 1,182,835 Common Shares which may be issued
by the Company to holders of 1,182,835 OP Units. The SEC declared this
Registration effective on October 3, 1996.

    In December 1996, the Company completed offerings of 4,440,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $41.25 per
share (the "December 1996 Common Share Offerings").  The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $177.4 million in connection therewith.

    In March 1997, the Company completed three separate public offerings
relating to an aggregate of 1,921,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at a price of $46 per share (the "March 1997 Common
Share Offerings"). The Company received net proceeds of approximately $88.3
million therefrom.

                                      F-11

 
                   EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

    On May 14, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the "June 1997 Equity
Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration statement effective on
June 5, 1997.

    In June 1997, the Company completed five separate public offerings
comprising an aggregate of 8,992,023 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at prices ranging from $44.06 to $45.88 per share (the
"June 1997 Common Share Offerings"). The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $398.9 million therefrom.

    On July 28, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register $750 million of equity securities (the "August 1997 Equity
Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration statement effective on
August 4, 1997.

    In September 1997, the Company completed the sale of 498,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $51.125
per share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $24.2 million in
connection with this offering (the "September 1997 Common Share Offering").

    In October 1997, in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of
Properties, the Company issued 3,315,500 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were issued at a price of $45.25 per share with a value of approximately
$150 million (the "October 1997 Common Share Offering").

    On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a Distribution
Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan.  This registration statement was declared
effective on November 25, 1997.  The Distribution Reinvestment and Share
Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan") of the Company provides holders of record and
beneficial owners of Common Shares, Preferred Shares, and limited partnership
interests in the Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient method of
investing cash distributions in additional Common Shares (which is referred to
herein as the "Dividend Reinvestment  DRIP Plan").  Common Shares may also be
purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in
the DRIP Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the
Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging
between 0% and 5% (as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan)(which is
referred to herein as the "Share Purchase  DRIP Plan").

    On December 11, 1997, in connection with the acquisition of one Property,
the Company issued 736,296 publicly registered Common Shares, which were issued
at a price of $48.85 per share with a value of approximately $36 million. On
December 23, 1997, the Company completed an offering of 467,722 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $51.3125
per share and received net proceeds of approximately $22.8 million in connection
therewith. The sale of the 1,204,018 Common Shares mentioned above is
collectively, the "December 1997 Common Share Offerings".

    During 1998, the Company issued 93,521 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $3.7
million.

    During 1998, the Company issued 1,023,184 Common Shares pursuant to the
Share Purchase  DRIP Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million.

                                      F-12

 
                   EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

   On January 27, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 4,000,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $50.4375
per share (the "January 1998 Common Share Offering").  The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $195.3 million in connection therewith.

   On February 3, 1998, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register $1 billion of equity securities.  The SEC declared this
registration statement effective on February 27, 1998.

   On February 18, 1998, the Company completed offerings of 988,340 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $50.625
per share. On February 23, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 1,000,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$48 per share. The Company received net proceeds from these offerings
(collectively, the "February 1998 Common Share Offerings") of approximately $95
million.
 
   On March 30, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 495,663 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $47.9156 per share (the
"March 1998 Common Share Offering").  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $23.7 million in connection therewith.

   On April 29, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 946,565 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $46.5459 per share (the
"April 1998 Common Share Offering").  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $44.1 million in connection therewith.

   On September 20, 1998, the Company completed its repurchase of 2,367,400 of
its Common Shares of beneficial interest, on the open market, for an average
price of $40 per share. The purchases were made between August 5 and September
17, 1998.  The Company paid approximately $94.7 million in connection therewith.
These shares were subsequently retired.

   The following table presents the changes in the Company's issued and
outstanding Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
(excluding OP Units and Junior Convertible Preference Units of 13,286,555,
9,592,590 and 7,858,228 outstanding at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively):

                                      F-13

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

 

     Assuming conversion of all OP Units and Junior Convertible Preference
Units, total Common Shares outstanding at December 31, 1998 would have been
131,516,564. As of December 31, 1998, the Minority Interests held 13,286,555 OP
Units, which includes units held by minority interest owners in Merry Land Down
REIT I LP, which were converted to 180,585 OP Units subsequent to December 31,
1998. This amount represented a 10.10% interest in the Operating Partnership. As
of December 31, 1997, the Minority Interests held 9,592,590 OP Units, which
represented a 9.72% interest in the Operating Partnership

     The Company paid a $0.67, $0.67, $0.67 and $0.71 per Common Share
distribution on April 10, July 10, October 9 and December 31, 1998,
respectively, for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31, 1998, to Common Share holders of record on March 27, June 26,
September 16 and December 20, 1998, respectively.

                                      F-14

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

   The declaration of trust of the Company provides that the Company may issue
up to 100,000,000 Preferred Shares with specific rights, preferences and other
attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include
preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the
Company's Common Shares.  Under certain circumstances, the issuance of Preferred
Shares may require shareholder approval pursuant to the rules and the
regulations of the New York Stock Exchange.

   In June 1995, the Company sold 6,120,000 of its 9 3/8% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(liquidation preference $25 per share) (the "Series A Preferred Shares").  The
net proceeds of approximately $148.2 million from the Series A Preferred Share
Offering were contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership in
exchange for 6,120,000 of the Operating Partnership's 9 3/8% Series A cumulative
redeemable preference units.  The Series A Preferred Shares are cumulative from
the date of original issue and distributions are payable quarterly on or about
the fifteenth day of January, April, July and October of each year, at the
annual rate of 9 3/8% of the liquidation preference of $25 per share. The Series
A Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to June 1, 2000. On or after June 1,
2000, the Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company
in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued and
unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

   In November 1995, the Company sold 5,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series B
Depositary Shares"). Each Series B Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional
interest in a 9 1/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series B Preferred
Shares"). The liquidation preference of each of the Series B Preferred Shares is
$250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series B Depositary Share). The net proceeds of
approximately $121 million from the Series B Preferred Share Offering were
contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership in exchange for 500,000
of the Operating Partnership's 9 1/8% Series B cumulative redeemable preference
units. The Series B Preferred Shares are cumulative from the date of original
issue and distributions are payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of
January, April, July and October of each year, commencing on January 15, 1996,
at the annual rate of 9 1/8% of the liquidation preference of $25 per Series B
Depositary Share. The Series B Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
October 15, 2005. On and after October 15, 2005, the Series B Preferred Shares
may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price of $250 per share (equivalent to $25 per Series B Depositary
Share), plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

   In September 1996 the Company sold 4,600,000 depositary shares (the "Series C
Depositary Shares"). Each Series C Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional
interest in a 9 1/8% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series C Preferred
Shares"). The liquidation preference of each of the Series C Preferred Shares is
$250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series C Depositary Share). The Company raised
gross proceeds of $115 million from this offering (the "Series C Preferred Share
Offering"). The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $111.4
million from the Series C Preferred Share Offering to the Operating Partnership
in exchange for 460,000 of the Operating Partnership's 9 1/8% Series C
cumulative redeemable preference units. The Series C Preferred Shares are
cumulative from the date of original issue and distributions are payable
quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of January, April, July and October of
each year, commencing on October 15, 1996, at the annual rate of 9 1/8% of the
liquidation preference of $25 per Series C Depositary Share. The Series C
Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to September 9, 2006. On and after
September 9, 2006, the Series C Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at the
option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $250 per
share (equivalent to $25 per Series C Depositary Share), plus accrued and unpaid
distributions, if any, thereon.

                                      F-15

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

   In May 1997, the Company sold 7,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series D
Depositary Shares").  Each Series D Depositary Share represents a 1/10
fractional interest in a 8.60% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share  (the "Series D Preferred
Shares").  The liquidation preference of each of the Series D Preferred shares
is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series D Depositary Share).  The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $169.5 million from this offering (the
"Series D Preferred Share Offering").  The Company contributed the net proceeds
of approximately $169.5 million from the Series D Preferred Share Offering to
the Operating Partnership in exchange for 700,000 of the Operating Partnership's
8.60% Series D cumulative redeemable preference units. The Series D Preferred 
Shares are cumulative from the date of original issue and distributions are 
payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of January, April, July and 
October of each year, commencing on July 15, 1997, at the annual rate of 8.60% 
of the liquidation preference of $25 per Series D Depositary Share.

   The Series E Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in an amount equal to
$1.75 per share per annum. Each Series E Preferred Share is convertible at the
option of the holder thereof at any time into Common Shares at a conversion
price of $44.93 per Common Share (equivalent to a conversion rate of
approximately .5564 Common Share for each Series E Preferred Share). The Series
E Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to November 1, 1998. On and after
November 1, 1998, the Series E Preferred Shares may be redeemed at the option of
the Company, in whole or in part, initially at $25.875 per share and thereafter
at prices declining to $25.00 per share on and after November 1, 2003, plus
accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon. During 1997, 1,300 of the
Series E Preferred Shares were converted into 723 Common Shares of the Company.
During 1998, 1,500 of the Series E Preferred Shares were converted into 834
Common Shares of the Company.

   The Series F Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of January, April, July and October of
each year at the rate of 9.65% of the liquidation preference of $25 per share.
The Series F Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to August 24, 2000. On or
after August 24, 2000, the Series F Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at
the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25.00
per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

   In September 1997, the Company sold 11,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series
G Depositary Shares").  Each Series G Depositary Share represents a 1/10
fractional interest in a 7 1/4% Series G Convertible Cumulative Preferred Share
of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series G Preferred
Shares"). Series G Depositary Shares representing Series G Preferred Shares are
convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time into Common Shares
at a conversion price of $58.58 per Common Share (equivalent to a conversion
rate of approximately .4268 Common Shares for each Series G Depositary Share).
The liquidation preference of each of the Series G Preferred Shares is $250.00
per share (equivalent to $25 per Series G Depositary Share).  The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $264 million from this offering (the
"Series G Preferred Share Offering").  In addition, in October 1997, the Company
sold 1,650,000 additional Series G Depositary Shares pursuant to an over-
allotment option granted to the underwriters and received net proceeds of
approximately $39.6 million therefrom.  The Company contributed the net proceeds
of approximately $303.6 million from the Series G Preferred Share Offering to
the Operating Partnership in exchange for 1,265,000 of the Operating
Partnership's 7 1/4% Series G convertible cumulative preference units. The 
Series G Preferred Shares are cumulative from the date of original issue and 
distributions are payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of January, 
April, July and October of each year, commencing on October 15, 1997, at the 
annual rate of 7 1/4% of the liquidation preference of $25 per Series G 
Depositary Share. The Series G Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to 
September 15, 2002. On and after September 15, 2002, the Series G Preferred 
Shares may be redeemed at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, 
initially at $25.90625 per Depositary Share and thereafter at prices declining 
to $25.00 per Depositary Share on and after September 15, 2007, plus in each
case accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, to the redemption date.

   The Series H Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of
each year in an amount equivalent to $1.75 per annum per share. Each Series H
Preferred Share is convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time
into Common Shares at a conversion price of $34.53 per Common Share (equivalent
to a conversion rate of approximately .7240 Common Share for each Series H
Preferred Share). The Series H Preferred Shares may be redeemed, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company for Common Shares only, provided the Common
Shares

                                      F-16

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

are trading above $34.53 (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances).
During 1998, 8,400 of the Series H Preferred Shares were converted into 6,078
Common Shares of the Company.

   The Series I Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of
each year in an amount equivalent to $2.205 per annum per share. Each Series I
Preferred Share is convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time
into Common Shares at a conversion price of $38.96 per Common Share (equivalent
to a conversion rate of approximately .6417 Common Share for each Series I
Preferred Share). The Series I Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
October 31, 1999. On or after October 31, 1999, the Series I Preferred Shares
may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company for Common
Shares only, provided the Common Shares are trading above $38.96 (subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances).

   The Series J Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of
each year in an amount equivalent to $2.15 per annum per share. Each Series J
Preferred Share is convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time
into Common Shares at a conversion price of $40.74 per Common Share (equivalent
to a conversion rate of approximately .6136 Common Share for each Series J
Preferred Share). The Series J Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
March 31, 2000. On or after March 31, 2000, the Series J Preferred Shares may be
redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company for Common Shares
only, provided the Common Shares are trading above $40.74 (subject to adjustment
in certain circumstances).

   The Series K Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year at
the rate of 8.29% of the liquidation preference per annum (equivalent to $4.145
per annum per share). The Series K Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
December 10, 2026. On or after December 10, 2026, the Series K Preferred Shares
may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if
any, thereon.

   The Series L Preferred Shares are cumulative and distributions are payable
quarterly on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year at
the rate of 7.625% of the liquidation preference per annum (equivalent to $1.906
per annum per share). The Series L Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
February 13, 2003. On or after February 13, 2003, the Series L Preferred Shares
may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if
any, thereon.

   The following table presents the Company's issued and outstanding Preferred
Shares as of December 31, 1998 and 1997:

                                      F-17

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

 

     Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share offerings are contributed by
the Company to the Operating Partnership in return for an increased ownership
percentage and are treated as capital transactions in the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements. As a result, the net offering proceeds are allocated
between shareholders' equity and the equity position of the limited partners of
the Operating Partnership (collectively, the "Minority Interests") (to the
extent represented by OP Units), to account for the change in their respective
percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.

                                      F-18

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)



     The following table summarizes the distributions paid to Preferred Share
and Depositary Share holders related to the year ended December 31, 1998:

 


                                      F-19

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


5. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

   (a)  Real estate assets and depreciation

     Real Estate is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation less an
adjustment, if any, for impairment.

     For rental properties to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized
when the fair value of the real estate, less the estimated cost to sell, is less
than the carrying amount of the real estate measured at the time the Company has
a commitment to sell the property and/or is actively marketing the property for
sale.  Real estate to be disposed of is reported at the lower of its carrying
amount or its estimated fair value, less its cost to sell.  Depreciation is not
recorded during the period in which assets are held for disposal.

     Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the assets.  The Company uses a 30-year estimated life for buildings, a
ten-year estimated life for land improvements and up to a seven-year estimated
life for furniture, fixtures and equipment. Expenditures for ordinary
maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred and significant
renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the useful life of the
asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life.  Initial direct leasing
costs are expensed as incurred and such expense approximates the deferral and
amortization of initial direct leasing costs over the lease terms.  Property
sales or dispositions are recorded when title transfers and sufficient
consideration has been received by the Company.  Upon disposition, the related
costs and accumulated deprecation are removed from the respective accounts.  Any
gain or loss on sale or disposition is recognized in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

     The Company classifies Properties under development and/or expansion and
lease-up properties as construction-in-progress until construction on the
apartment community has been completed and all certificates of occupancy permits
have been obtained. The Company also classifies land relating to construction-
in-progress as land on its balance sheet. Land associated with construction-in-
progress was $19.4 million and $8.3 million as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

   (b)  Cash and Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and
investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased with
a maturity of three months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash
equivalents.  The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial
institutions.  The combined account balances at each institution periodically
exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance coverage,
and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on
deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage.  The Company believes that the
risk is not significant, as the Company does not anticipate their non-
performance.

   (c)  Deferred Financing Costs

     Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the
Company's lines of credit, long-term financing and costs for certain interest
rate protection agreements.  These costs are amortized over the terms of the
related debt.  Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired
before the maturity date.  The accumulated amortization of such deferred
financing costs was $8.2 million and $4.2 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

                                      F-20

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


   (d)  Interest Rate Protection Agreements

     The Company from time to time enters into interest rate protection
agreements to effectively convert floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, as
well as to hedge anticipated financing transactions. Net amounts paid or
received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to interest
expense when such amounts are incurred or earned. Settlement amounts paid or
received in connection with terminated interest rate protection agreements are
deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the related financing
transaction on the straight-line method. The Company believes it has limited
exposure to the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each
protection agreement since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial
institution, and the Company does not anticipate their non-performance.

   (e)  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities ("Statement No. 133").  Statement No. 133
requires recording all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities, measured
at fair value.  Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value
through income.  If the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the
hedge, changes in the fair value of derivatives will either be offset against
the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments
through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged
item is recognized in earnings.  The ineffective portion of a derivative's
change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings.  Statement No.
133 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999.  The Company is
planning to adopt Statement No. 133 effective January 1, 2000 and does not
anticipate that the adoption will have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations.

   (f)  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and
cash equivalents, and mortgage notes payable, other notes payable, lines of
credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or contract
values.  With respect to the Company's investment in mortgage notes, the fair
value as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 was estimated to be approximately $91.8
million and $184.8 million, respectively, compared to the Company's carrying
value of $88 million and $176.1 million, respectively.  The estimated fair value
of the Company's investment in mortgage notes represents the estimated net
present value based on the expected future property level cash flows and an
estimated current market discount rate.

   (g)  Revenue Recognition

     Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from tenants and
is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on
a straight-line basis. Interest income is recorded on an accrual basis.

   (h)  Lease Agreements

     The majority of the leases entered into between a tenant and a Property for
the rental of an apartment unit are year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both
parties on a year-to-year or month-to-month basis.

                                      F-21

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


   (i)  Income Taxes

     Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the
operations of the Properties and Management Business, the results of operations
contain no provision for Federal income taxes.  However, the Company is subject
to certain state and local income, excise or franchise taxes.  The aggregate
cost of land and depreciable property for Federal income tax purposes as of
December 31, 1998 and 1997 was approximately $9.1 billion and $6.2 billion,
respectively.

   (j)  Minority Interests

     Net income is allocated to the Minority Interests based on their respective
ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership.  Ownership percentage is
represented by dividing the number of OP Units held by the Minority Interests by
the total OP Units held by Minority Interests and EQR.  Issuance of additional
Common Shares or OP Units changes the ownership interests of both the Minority
Interests and EQR.  Such transactions and the proceeds therefrom are treated as
capital transactions and result in an allocation between shareholders' equity
and Minority Interests to account for the change in the respective percentage
ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.

   (k)  Use of Estimates

     In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles, management makes estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from these estimates.

   (l)  Reportable Segments

     During the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information ("Statement No. 131"). Statement No. 131
superseded FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14, Financial
Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise ("Statement No. 14"). Statement
No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public business enterprises
report information regarding reportable operating segments. The adoption of
Statement No. 131 did not affect the Company's results of operations or
financial position.

     The Company has one primary reportable business segment, which consists of
investment in rental real estate.  The Company's primary business is owning,
managing and operating multifamily residential properties which includes the
generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of apartment
units to tenants.  The Company also has a segment for corporate level activity
including such items as interest income earned on short-term investments,
interest income earned on investment in mortgage notes, general and
administrative expenses, and interest expense on mortgage notes payable and
unsecured note issuances.  In addition, the Company has a segment for third
party management activity that is immaterial and does not meet the threshold
requirements of Statement No. 131 as a reportable segment.

         The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources primarily
based on the rental and other income generated from each property less property
and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, and property
management expenses, which is considered net operating income ("NOI"). However,
all other segment measurements are disclosed in the Company's consolidated
financial statements, and accordingly the accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described elsewhere in the Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies.

     The Company also considers funds from operations ("FFO") to be a primary
measure of the performance of real estate companies including an equity REIT.
The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a measure of the
performance of an equity REIT because, along with cash flows from operating
activities, financing activities and investing activities, it provides investors
an

                                      F-22

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

understanding of the ability of the Company to incur and service debt and to
make capital expenditures. FFO in and of itself does not represent cash
generated from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") and therefore should not be considered an
alternative to net income as an indication of the Company's performance or to
net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP as a measure of
liquidity and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash
needs. The Company's calculation of FFO represents net income available to
Common Shares, excluding gains on dispositions of properties, gains on early
extinguishment of debt, and write-off of unamortized costs on refinanced debt,
plus depreciation on real estate assets, income allocated to Minority Interests
and amortization of deferred financing costs related to the predecessor
business. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for
calculating FFO utilized by other REIT's and, accordingly, may not be comparable
to such other REIT's.

         All revenues are from external customers and no revenues are generated
from transactions with other segments. There are no tenants who contributed 10%
or more of the Company's total revenues during 1998, 1997 or 1996. Interest
expense on debt is not allocated to individual Properties, even if the
Properties secure such debt. Further, minority interest in consolidated
subsidiaries is not allocated to the Properties. There is no provision for
income taxes as the Company is organized as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
Code.

6.  REAL ESTATE

         The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for investment in
real estate as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 (Amounts are in thousands):

 

                                      F-23

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for the real estate held for
disposition as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 (Amounts are in thousands):

 

         In addition to the MRY Merger, during the year ended December 31, 1998,
the Company acquired the 99 Properties listed below, of which 96 were acquired
from unaffiliated third parties and 3 were acquired from an affiliated party. In
connection with certain of the acquisitions listed below, the Company assumed
and/or entered into mortgage indebtedness of approximately $459.8 million,
issued OP Units having a value of approximately $165 million and issued Junior
Convertible Preference Units having a value of approximately $4.8 million. The
cash portion of these transactions was funded primarily from proceeds raised
from the various capital transactions as discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, the various debt offerings as discussed in
Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company's line of
credit, proceeds received from the disposition of certain Properties and working
capital.

 

                                      F-24

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

 

                                      F-25

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

 

     During 1997, the Company acquired 124 Properties, excluding the Wellsford
Merger and the EWR Merger, for a total acquisition cost of $1.98 billion. 
Each Property was purchased from an unaffiliated third party, except for 12 of
the Properties, which were purchased from certain affiliates of the Company,
including Zell/Merrill Lynch Real Estate Opportunity Partners Limited
Partnership ("Zell/Merrill I") and subsidiaries of Zell/Merrill Lynch Real
Estate Opportunity Partners Limited Partnership II ("Zell/Merrill II"). The
total purchase price for the Properties acquired from Zell/Merrill I and
Zell/Merrill II was approximately $162.2 million. In connection with these
acquisitions, the Company assumed mortgage indebtedness of approximately $597.2
million and issued OP Units and Common Shares having a value of approximately
$191.3 million.

                                      F-26

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

7.   INVESTMENT IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS

     In December 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with a
multifamily residential real estate developer whereby the Company will make
investments in limited partnerships to fund a portion of the total project
development cost of new multifamily developments in certain of the Company's
target markets (the "Joint Venture Agreement"). During the years ended December
31, 1998 and 1997, the Company has funded approximately $23.9 million and $6.9
million, respectively, in connection with this agreement. The amounts invested
are included in other assets on the balance sheet. For additional information
see Notes 15 and 20.

8.   REAL ESTATE DISPOSITIONS

     During 1998, the Company disposed of the properties listed below. Each
property was sold to an unaffiliated third party. The Company recognized a net
gain of approximately $21.7 million on the disposition of these twenty
Properties.

 

     During 1997, the Company received sales proceeds of $36.5 million and
recognized a total gain of approximately $13.8 million on the disposition of
seven Properties, the portion of one Property and a vacant land parcel.

9.   CALCULATION OF NET INCOME PER WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARE

     The following tables sets forth the computation of net income per weighted
average Common Share outstanding and net income per weighted average Common
Share outstanding - assuming dilution.

                                      F-27

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

 

                                     F-28

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


 

For additional disclosures regarding the employee share options, see Note 17.

Convertible Preferred Shares that could be converted into 8,739,688 and
2,763,898 weighted shares of Common Shares were outstanding at December 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.

                                     F-29


 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


10.  INVESTMENT IN MORTGAGE NOTES, NET

     In 1995, the Company made an $89 million investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 of the Additional
Properties. These 21 Additional Properties consist of 3,896 units, located in
California, Colorado, New Mexico and Oklahoma. This included an $87.1 million
investment in second and third mortgages (net of an original discount of
approximately $12.7 million to their face amount), $1.6 million represented a
one time payment for an interest rate protection agreement and $0.3 million
represented an investment for primarily a 49.5% limited partnership interest in
the title-holding entities. As the Company does not control the general partners
of the title-holding entities and substantially all of the Company's investment
is in second and third mortgages (which are subordinate to first mortgages owned
by third party unaffiliated entities), the $87.1 million investment is accounted
for as an investment in mortgage notes. The $1.6 million payment made for the
interest rate protection agreement is included in deferred financing costs and
is being amortized over the term of the related debt. The investment in limited
partnership interests is accounted for under the equity method and is included
in other assets on the balance sheet.

     As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the second mortgage notes had a combined
principal balance of approximately $21.7 million and $25.5 million,
respectively, and currently accrue interest at a rate of 9.45% per annum,
receive principal amortization from excess cash flow and have a stated maturity
date of December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the third mortgage
notes had a combined principal balance of approximately $71.1 million and $71.1
million, respectively, and currently accrue interest at a rate of 6.15% per
annum, plus up to an additional 3% per annum to the extent of available cash
flow. Contingent interest on the third mortgage notes is recognized to the
extent it is received. The third mortgage notes have a stated maturity of
December 31, 2024. Receipt of principal and interest on the second and third
mortgage notes is subordinated to the receipt of all interest on the first
mortgage notes. With respect to the discount on these notes, the unamortized
balance at December 31, 1998 and 1997 was $6 million and $9 million,
respectively. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company amortized $3 million, $3.1
million and $0.6 million, respectively, which is included in interest income-
investment in mortgage notes in the consolidated statements of operations. This
discount is being amortized utilizing the effective yield method based on the
expected life of the investment.

     On April 28, 1997, the Company made an $88 million investment in six
mortgage loans collateralized by five multifamily properties. On April 1, 1998,
the Company purchased these five multifamily Properties and no longer has an
investment in the mortgage loans, but has assumed $50 million in debt in
connection with this acquisition. These five Properties are no longer included
in the Additional Properties, but are now included in the Properties.

11.  MORTGAGE NOTES PAYABLE

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness
of approximately $2.3 billion encumbering 216 of the Properties. The carrying
value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of $250 million) was
approximately $3.8 billion. The mortgage notes payables are generally due in
monthly installments of principal and interest. In connection with the
Properties acquired during the year ended December 31, 1998, including the
effects of the MRY Merger, the Company assumed the outstanding mortgage balances
on 58 Properties in the aggregate amount of $608.9 million, which includes a
premium of approximately $1.5 million recorded in connection with the MRY
Merger.

     As of December 31, 1998, scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding
mortgage indebtedness are at various dates through October 1, 2033.  During the
year ended December 31, 1998, the 

                                      F-30

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

effective interest cost calculated for all the Company's debt was 7.10%. During
the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company repaid the outstanding mortgage
balances on nine Properties in the aggregate amount of $63.8 million.

     Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of the
next five years and thereafter are as follows:

 

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness
of approximately $1.6 billion encumbering 152 of the Properties. The carrying
value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of $145.1 million) was
approximately $2.6 billion. The mortgage notes payables are generally due in
monthly installments of principal and interest. In connection with the
Properties acquired during the year ended December 31, 1997, including the
effects of the Mergers, the Company assumed the outstanding mortgage balances on
90 Properties in the aggregate amount of $931 million, which includes a premium
of approximately $3.9 million recorded in connection with the EWR Merger.

     During the year ended December 31, 1997, the effective interest cost
calculated for all the Company's debt was 7.5%. During the year ended December
31, 1997, the Company repaid the outstanding mortgage balances on 29 Properties
in the aggregate amount of $113.4 million.

     The Company has, from time to time, entered into interest rate protection
agreements (financial instruments) to reduce the potential impact of increases
in interest rates but believes it has limited exposure to the extent of non-
performance by the counterparties of each protection agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance. No such financial instrument has been used for
trading purposes.

     During 1996 the Company terminated two interest rate protection agreements
that were initially entered into in connection with two mortgage loans with
notional amounts totaling $64.2 million. These two agreements effectively
converted these two mortgage loans to fixed rate instruments based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). Upon the termination of these agreements the
Company received settlement payments of approximately $230,000.

     Concurrent with the refinancing of certain tax-exempt bonds and as a
requirement of the credit provider of the bonds, the Financing Partnership,
which owns certain of the Properties, entered into interest rate protection
agreements, which were assigned to the credit provider as additional security.
The Financing Partnership pays interest based on a fixed interest rate and the
counterparty of the agreement pays interest to the Company at a floating rate
that is calculated based on the Public Securities Association Index for

                                      F-31

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


municipal bonds ("PSA Municipal Index"). As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
aggregate notional amounts of these agreements were approximately $172.1 million
and $174.3 million, respectively.  The fixed interest rates for these agreements
were 4.81%, 4.528% and 4.90%.  The termination dates are October 1, 2003,
January 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004.

     The Company simultaneously entered into substantially identical reverse
interest rate protection agreements.  Under these agreements the Company pays
interest monthly at a floating rate based on the PSA Municipal Index and the
counterparty pays interest to the Company based on a fixed interest rate.  As of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the aggregate notional amount of these agreements
was approximately $172.1 million and $174.3 million, respectively. The fixed
interest rates received by the Company in exchange for paying interest based on
the PSA Municipal Index for these agreements were 4.74%, 4.458% and 4.83%. The
termination dates are October 1, 2003, January 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004.
Collectively, these agreements effectively cost the Company 0.07% per annum on
the current outstanding aggregate notional amount.

     The Company also has an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount
of $228 million, for which it will receive payments if the PSA index exceeds
5.75%, that terminates on December 1, 1999.  Any payments by the counterparty
under this agreement have been collaterally assigned to the provider of certain
sureties related to the tax-exempt bonds secured by certain of its Properties.
The Company has no payment obligations to the counterparty with respect to this
agreement.

     In May 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection agreement
to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Evans Withycombe Financing
Limited Partnership indebtedness to within a range of 5.6% to 6.0% upon its 
refinancing. The agreement was for a notional amount of $131 million with a
settlement date of August 2001. There was no initial cost to the Company for
entering into this agreement.

     In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's planned
financing in the fourth quarter of 1998.  This agreement was cancelled in
November at a cost of approximately $3.7 million.  This cost is being amortized
over the life of the financing for the fifteen previously unencumbered
Properties that occurred in November 1998.

     In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the Operating
Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of 3.65125%.
This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a termination date
of August 2003.

     In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the Operating
Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of 3.683%.
This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a termination date
of August 2005.
 
     The Company believes that it has limited exposure to the extent of non-
performance by the counterparties of the agreements, mentioned in the previous
paragraphs, since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and
the Company does not anticipate their non-performance.

     The fair value of these instruments, discussed above, as of December 31,
1998 approximates their carrying or contract values.

                                      F-32

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

 
12.  LINES OF CREDIT

     The Company has a revolving credit facility with Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York ("Morgan Guaranty") and Bank of America Illinois ("Bank of
America") as co-agents to provide the Operating Partnership with potential
borrowings of up to $500 million. This credit facility matures in November 1999
and borrowings generally will bear interest at a per annum rate of one, two,
three or six month LIBOR, plus a certain spread dependent upon the Company's
credit rating, which spread is currently at 0.45%, and is subject to an annual
facility fee of $750,000. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, $245 million and
$235 million of borrowings were outstanding on this credit facility, bearing
interest at a weighted average rate of 6.04% and 6.46%, respectively.

     In connection with the MRY Merger, the Company assumed an additional 
credit facility with First Union Bank (as agent) with potential borrowings of up
to $120 million. This revolving credit facility matures in September 2000 and
borrowings generally will bear interest at a per annum rate of LIBOR, plus a
certain spread dependent upon the Company's credit rating, which spread is
currently at 0.50%, and is subject to an annual facility fee of $120,000. As of
December 31, 1998, $45 million was outstanding under this facility, bearing
interest at a weighted average rate of 5.74%.

13.  NOTES

     On May 16, 1994, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of unsecured
senior notes (the "1999 Notes") in a private placement (the "Debt Offering") to
qualified institutional buyers. The 1999 Notes were issued at a discount, which
is being amortized over the life of the 1999 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As
of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the unamortized discount balance was $65,156 and
$0.2 million, respectively.  The 1999 Notes are due May 15, 1999 and bear
interest at a rate of 8.5%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15
and November 15.  In February 1996 the Company entered into an interest rate
protection agreement that hedged the interest rate risk of the 1999 Notes by
locking the effective four-year Treasury Rate, commencing May 15, 1999.  There
was no current cost to the Company for entering into this agreement.

     In December 1994, the Operating Partnership registered $500 million in debt
securities pursuant to a debt shelf registration statement (the "Debt Shelf
Registration") of which $100 million of unsecured floating rate notes (the
"Floating Rate Notes") were issued by the Operating Partnership on December 22,
1994 (the "Public Debt Offering").  The Floating Rate Notes were repaid at
maturity on December 22, 1997.

     In April 1995, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2002 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Second
Public Debt Offering").  The 2002 Notes were issued at a discount, which is
being amortized over the life of the 2002 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the unamortized discount balance was approximately
$0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively.  The 2002 Notes are due on April
15, 2002 and bear interest at 7.95%, which is payable semiannually on each
October 15 and April 15.  Prior to the issuance of the 2002 Notes, the Operating
Partnership entered into an interest rate protection agreement to effectively
fix the interest rate cost of such issuance.  The Operating Partnership made a
one-time settlement payment of this protection transaction, which was
approximately $0.8 million and is being amortized over the term of the 2002
Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
unamortized balance of this cost was approximately $0.4 million and $0.5
million, respectively.

                                      F-33

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


     In August 1996, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2026 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Third Public
Debt Offering").  The 2026 Notes are due on August 15, 2026 and bear interest at
7.57%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15,
commencing February 15, 1997.  The 2026 Notes are redeemable at any time after
August 15, 2006 by the Operating Partnership pursuant to the terms thereof.
Prior to the issuance of the 2026 Notes, the Company entered into an interest
rate protection agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of this
issuance to 7.5%.  The Operating Partnership received a one-time settlement
payment from this transaction, which was approximately $0.6 million, which
amount is being amortized over ten years on a straight-line basis. As of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the unamortized balance was approximately $0.4
million and $0.5 million, respectively.

     In October 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2017 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Fourth
Public Debt Offering").  The 2017 Notes were issued at a discount, which is
being amortized over the life of the 2017 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the unamortized discount balance was approximately
$1.2 million and $1.2 million, respectively.  The 2017 Notes are due on October
15, 2017 and bear interest at 7.125%, which is payable semiannually in arrears
on April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 1998.  The 2017 Notes are
redeemable at any time by the Operating Partnership pursuant to the terms
thereof.

     In November 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $200 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes in a public debt offering (the "Fifth Public Debt
Offering"). Of the $200 million issued, $150 million of these notes are due
November 15, 2001 (the "2001 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.55%, which
is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May
15, 1998. The remaining $50 million of these notes are due November 15, 2003
(the "2003 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.65%, which is payable
semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May 15, 1998.
The 2001 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the life
of the 2001 Notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
the unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.2 million and $0.3
million, respectively. The 2003 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being
amortized over the life of the 2003 Notes on a straight-line basis. As of
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the unamortized discount balance was approximately
$0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Prior to the issuance of the 2001
and 2003 Notes, the Operating Partnership entered into two interest rate
protection agreements to effectively fix the interest rate costs of such
issuances. The Operating Partnership made a one time settlement payment of each
protection transaction, which was approximately $5 million and $1.7 million,
respectively, which are being amortized over the term of the Notes on a 
straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the unamortized balance
of these costs were approximately $3.6 million and $4.9 million and $1.4 million
and $1.6 million, respectively.

     On February 3, 1998, the Operating Partnership filed a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of debt securities. The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998.

     In April 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $300 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2015 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Sixth Public
Debt Offering").  The 2015 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being
amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December
31, 1998 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $1.8 million. The
2015 Notes are due April 13, 2015. The annual interest rate on the 2015 Notes to
April 13, 2005 (the "Remarketing Date") is 6.63%, which is payable semi-annually
in arrears on October 13 and April 13, commencing October 13, 1998. The 2015
Notes are subject to mandatory tender to the remarketing agent on the
Remarketing Date, at the election of the remarketing dealer and subject to
certain limitations.  If the remarketing dealer, initially Salomon Brothers
Inc., does not purchase all tendered 2015 Notes on the Remarketing Date, or in
certain 

                                      F-34

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)



other limited circumstances, the Operating Partnership will be required to
repurchase the 2015 Notes at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued
interest. If the 2015 Notes are remarketed, the 2015 Notes will bear interest at
the rate determined by the remarketing dealer on and after the Remarketing Date.
The Operating Partnership received approximately $8.1 million from the sale of
the option to remarket the 2015 Notes on the Remarketing Date, which is being
amortized over the term of the 2015 Notes. As of December 31, 1998 the
unamortized balance was approximately $7.8 million. Prior to the issuance of the
2015 Notes, the Operating Partnership entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of such issuance until the
Remarketing Date. The Operating Partnership received a one-time settlement
payment from this transaction, which was approximately $0.6 million and is being
amortized over seven years. As of December 31, 1998 the unamortized balance was
approximately $0.6 million.

     In August 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $100 million of Remarketed
Reset Notes (the "August 2003 Notes") in a public debt offering (the "Seventh
Public Debt Offering").  The August 2003 Notes were issued at a discount, which
is being amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of
December 31, 1998 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.3
million.  The August 2003 Notes are due August 21, 2003.  During the period from
and including August 21, 1998 to but excluding August 23, 1999 (the "Initial
Spread Period") the interest rate on the August 2003 Notes will be reset
quarterly, and will equal LIBOR plus an applicable spread.  The spread during
the Initial Spread Period is .45%. After the Initial Spread Period, the
character (i.e. fixed or floating rate) and duration of the interest rate on the
notes and the subsequent spread will be agreed to by the Operating Partnership
and the remarketing underwriter, initially Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and
Smith, Inc., on each applicable determination date. Beginning August 23, 1999,
the Operating Partnership may elect to redeem the August 2003 Notes on certain
dates and in certain circumstances.

     In September 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $145 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2000 Notes") in a public debt offering (the
"Eighth Public Debt Offering"). The 2000 Notes were issued at a discount, which
is being amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of
December 31, 1998 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.5
million. The 2000 Notes are due September 15, 2000. The annual interest rate on
the 2000 Notes is 6.15%, which is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15
and September 15, commencing March 15, 1999. The Operating Partnership received
net proceeds of approximately $144.5 million in connection with this issuance.

     Included in the note balance are four unsecured note issuances assumed in
connection with the Wellsford Merger.  These are discussed in the following
three paragraphs.

     In January 1995, $100 million of senior unsecured notes due February 1,
2002 (the "2002-A Notes") were issued. The 2002-A Notes bear interest at a rate
of 9.375%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on August 1 and February 1.
In connection with the assumption of the 2002-A Notes, the Company recorded a
premium in the amount of $5.6 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998
and 1997, the unamortized premium balance relating to the 2002 -A Notes was
approximately $3.7 million and $4.9 million, respectively.

     In August 1995, $125 million of senior unsecured notes were issued. Of the
$125 million issued, $55 million of these notes are due August 15, 2000 (the
"2000 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 7.25%, which is payable
semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15. The remaining $70 million
of these notes are due August 15, 2005 (the "2005 Notes") and bear interest at a
rate of 7.75%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August
1.

                                      F-35

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


     In November 1996, $25 million of medium term unsecured floating rate notes
due November 24, 1999 (the "1999-A Notes") were issued.  The 1999-A Notes bear
interest at 90 day LIBOR plus 0.32%, which is payable quarterly in arrears on
the 25th day of each February, May, August and November.

     Also included in the note balance are two unsecured note issuances assumed
in connection with the EWR Merger.  These are discussed in the following two
paragraphs.

     In April 1997, $75 million of senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2004
(the "2004 Notes") were issued. The 2004 Notes bear interest at a rate of 7.5%,
which is payable semiannually in arrears on October 15 and April 15. In
connection with the assumption of the 2004 Notes, the Company recorded a premium
in the amount of $1.7 million, which is being amortized over the remaining life
of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
unamortized premium balance relating to the 2004 Notes was approximately $1.5
million and $1.7 million, respectively.

     In April 1997, $50 million of senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2007
(the "2007 Notes") were issued. The 2007 Notes bear interest at a rate of
7.625%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on October 15 and April 15. In
connection with the assumption of the 2007 Notes, the Company recorded a premium
in the amount of $1.6 million, which is being amortized over the remaining life
of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
unamortized premium balance relating to the 2007 Notes was approximately $1.4
million and $1.6 million, respectively.

     Also included in the note balance are six unsecured note issuances assumed
in connection with the MRY Merger.  These are discussed in the following six
paragraphs.

     In August 1995, $40 million of senior unsecured notes due October 1, 2002
(the "2002 MRY Notes") were issued.  The 2002 MRY Notes bear interest at a rate
of 7.25%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1.  In
connection with the assumption of the 2002 MRY Notes, the Company recorded a
premium in the amount of $0.5 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1998,
the unamortized premium balance relating to the 2002 MRY Notes was approximately
$0.5 million.

     In November 1995, $40 million of senior unsecured notes due November 1,
2003 (the "2003 MRY Notes") were issued. The 2003 MRY Notes bear interest at a
rate of 6.875%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November
1. In connection with the assumption of the 2003 MRY Notes, the Company recorded
a premium in the amount of $0.3 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998,
the unamortized premium balance relating to the 2003 MRY Notes was approximately
$0.3 million.

     In November 1995, $40 million of senior unsecured notes due November 1,
2004 (the "2004 MRY Notes") were issued. The 2004 MRY Notes bear interest at a
rate of 6.875%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November
1. In connection with the assumption of the 2004 MRY Notes, the Company recorded
a premium in the amount of $0.2 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998,
the unamortized premium balance relating to the 2004 MRY Notes was approximately
$0.2 million.

     In June 1995, $120 million of senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2005 (the
"2005 MRY Notes") were issued.  The 2005 MRY Notes bear interest at a rate of
7.25%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15.  In
connection with the assumption of the 2005 MRY Notes, the Company recorded a
premium in the amount of $1.6 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining 

                                      F-36

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


life of the notes on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1998, the
unamortized premium balance relating to the 2005 MRY Notes was approximately
$1.6 million.

     In October 1997, $50 million of senior unsecured notes due October 30, 2006
(the "2006 MRY Notes") were issued.  The 2006 MRY Notes bear interest at a rate
of 6.69%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November 1.  In
connection with the assumption of the 2006 MRY Notes, the Company recorded a
discount in the amount of $0.4 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1998,
the unamortized discount balance relating to the 2006 MRY Notes was
approximately $0.4 million.

     In July 1997, $50 million of senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2007 (the
"2007 MRY Notes") were issued.  The 2007 MRY Notes bear interest at a rate of
6.90%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1.  In
connection with the assumption of the 2007 MRY Notes, the Company recorded a
discount in the amount of $0.2 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1998,
the unamortized discount balance relating to the 2007 MRY Notes was
approximately $0.2 million.

     In regard to all of the interest rate protection agreements mentioned in
the previous paragraphs, the Company believes that it has limited exposure to
the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance.

14.  EMPLOYEE TRANSACTIONS

     Douglas Crocker II, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
and three other officers had purchased an aggregate of 190,000 Common Shares at
prices which range from $26 to $31.625 per Common Share.  These purchases were
financed by loans made by the Company in the aggregate amount of approximately
$5.3 million.  The employee notes accrue interest, payable in arrears, at rates
that range from 6.15% per annum to 7.93% per annum.  Scheduled maturities are at
various dates through March 2005.  The employee notes are recourse to Mr.
Crocker and the three other officers and are collateralized by pledges of the
190,000 Common Shares purchased.

     In addition, as of December 31, 1998, the outstanding principal balance on
additional notes issued to Mr. Crocker and four other officers was approximately
$1.1 million.  These notes accrue interest, payable in arrears, at one month
LIBOR plus 2% per annum.  Scheduled maturities are at various dates through
March 2003.  Subsequent to December 31, 1998, Mr. Crocker paid a principal
installment on his note in the amount of $80,570.  The notes are recourse to Mr.
Crocker and the four other officers and are collateralized by pledges of options
and share awards.

     Mr. Crocker has a deferred compensation agreement (the "Deferred
Compensation Agreement") which Deferred Compensation Agreement will provide Mr.
Crocker with a salary benefit after his termination of employment with the
Company. If Mr. Crocker's employment is terminated without cause, he would be
entitled to annual deferred compensation for a ten-year period commencing on the
termination date in an amount equal to $500,000 (increased by a CPI index each
year beginning January 1, 1997), multiplied by a percentage equal to 10% per
year since December 31, 1995.  In the event Mr. Crocker's employment is
terminated as a result of his death, permanent disability or incapacity, he
would be entitled to a similar amount except the annual percentage would be 15%
and the maximum paid per year would not exceed 100% of his average base salary.
Should Mr. Crocker be terminated for cause or should he choose to leave
voluntarily without good reason, he would not be entitled to any deferred
compensation.  The 

                                      F-37

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


Company recognized approximately $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million of
compensation expense for the years ended 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,
related to this Deferred Compensation Agreement.

     In addition, Gerald Spector, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company, entered into a Deferred Compensation Agreement in 1997,
which agreement provides Mr. Spector with a salary benefit after his termination
of employment with the Company.  If Mr. Spector's employment is terminated
without cause, he would be entitled to annual deferred compensation for a 15-
year period commencing on the termination date in an amount equal to 75% of his
average annual base compensation (before bonus) for the prior five calendar
years, multiplied by a percentage equal to 6.67% per each year since December
31, 1996.  In the event Mr. Spector's employment is terminated as a result of
his death, permanent disability or incapacity, he would be entitled to a similar
amount except that the annual percentage would be 10%, not 6.67%.  Should Mr.
Spector be terminated for cause or should he choose to leave voluntarily without
good reason, he would not be entitled to any deferred compensation.  The Company
has recognized approximately $0.2 million and $0.2 million of compensation
expense for the years ended 1998 and 1997, respectively, related to this
Deferred Compensation Agreement.

     The Board of Trustees also approved a share distributions agreement (the
"Share Distributions Agreement") for Mr. Crocker.  On January 18, 1996, Mr.
Crocker was issued options to purchase 100,000 Common Shares at the then current
market price of the Common Shares, which vest over a three-year period and are
effective for ten years.  Pursuant to the terms of the Share Distributions
Agreement, upon the exercise of any of these options, Mr. Crocker would be
entitled to an amount equal to the amount of Common Share dividends that
would have been paid on these shares being exercised had he owned these shares
for the period from January 18, 1996 until the date of the exercise of the
options in question.  Mr. Crocker's death or termination of employment would not
affect the Share Distributions Agreement.  The Company recognized approximately
$0.3 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million of compensation expense for the
years ended 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, related to this Share
Distributions Agreement.

     The Company has established a defined contribution plan (the "401(k) Plan")
that provides retirement benefits for employees that meet minimum employment
criteria.  The Company contributes 100% of the first 4% of eligible compensation
that a participant contributes to the 401(k) Plan.  Participants are vested in
the Company's contributions over five years.  The Company made contributions in
the amount of $0.8 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31,
1996 and 1997, respectively, and expects to make contributions in the amount of
approximately $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

15.  DEPOSITS-RESTRICTED

     Deposits-restricted as of December 31, 1998 primarily included the
following:

 .  a deposit in the amount of $20 million held in a third party escrow account 
   to provide collateral for third party construction financing in connection
   with the Joint Venture Agreement;
 .  approximately $22.2 million held in third party escrow accounts representing
   proceeds received in connection with the Company's disposition of four
   properties;

                                      F-38

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


 .  approximately $15.3 million for tenant security and utility deposits for
   certain of the Company's Properties; and
 .  approximately $11.8 million of other deposits.

     Deposits-restricted as of December 31, 1997 primarily included the
following:

 .  a deposit in the amount of $20 million held in a third party escrow account
   to provide collateral for third party construction financing in connection
   with the Joint Venture Agreement;
 .  approximately $7.6 million for tenant security and utility deposits for
   certain of the Company's Properties; and
 .  approximately $8.8 million of other deposits.

16.  SUMMARIZED PRO FORMA CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The following Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Operations has
been prepared as if the following had occurred on January 1, 1998 (as described
in Note 3, Note 4, Note 6, Note 8, Note 11 and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements):

 .  the January 1998 Common Share Offering;
 .  the February 1998 Common Share Offerings;
 .  the March 1998 Common Share Offering;
 .  the April 1998 Common Share Offering;
 .  the repurchase of Common Shares in August and September 1998;
 .  the Sixth Public Debt Offering;
 .  the Seventh Public Debt Offering;
 .  the Eighth Public Debt Offering;
 .  the mortgage financing of 15 previously unencumbered Properties for $226
   million;
 .  the acquisition of an additional 99 Properties, including the related
   assumption of $459.8 million of mortgage indebtedness, the issuance of Junior
   Convertible Preference Units with a value of $4.8 million and the issuance of
   OP Units with a value of $165 million;
 .  the acquisition of the 118 MRY properties, including the related assumption
   of $723.5 million of debt, the issuance of Common Shares with a market value
   of $1 billion, the assumption of MRY's minority interest with a market value
   of $40.2 million, and the redesignation of Preferred Shares with a
   liquidation value of $369.1 million;
 .  the disposition of 20 properties; and
 .  the repayment of the outstanding mortgage balances on nine properties
   totaling $63.8 million.

     This would result in 117,174,120 Common Shares outstanding on January 1,
1998. In management's opinion, the Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement of
Operations does not purport to present what actual results would have been had
the above transactions occurred on January 1, 1998, or to project results for
any future period. The amounts presented in the following statement are in
thousands except for share amounts:

                                      F-39

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


 

17.  SHARE OPTION PLAN

     Pursuant to the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and
Share Award Plan (the "Fourth Amended Option and Award Plan") officers,
directors, key employees and consultants of the Company may be offered the
opportunity to acquire Common Shares through the grant of share options
("Options") including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs"), incentive share
options ("ISOs") and share appreciation rights ("SARs") or may be granted
restricted or non-restricted shares. Additionally, under the Fourth Amended
Option and Award Plan, certain officers of the Company may be awarded Common
Shares, subject to conditions and restrictions as described in the Fourth
Amended Option and Award Plan. Options and SARs are sometimes referred to herein
as "Awards". As to the Options that have been granted through December 31, 1998,
generally, one-third are exercisable one year after the initial grant, one-third
are exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted and the
remaining one-third are exercisable three years following the date such Options
were granted.

     The Company has reserved 8,000,000 Common Shares for issuance under the
Fourth Amended Option and Award Plan. The Options generally are granted at the
fair market value of the Company's Common Shares at the date of grant, vest over
a three year period, are exercisable upon vesting and expire ten years from the
date of grant. The exercise price for all Options under the Fourth Amended
Option and Award Plan shall not be less than the fair market value of the
underlying Common Shares at the time the Option is granted. The Fourth Amended
Option and Award Plan will terminate at such time as no further Common Shares
are available for issuance upon the exercise of Options and all outstanding
Options have expired or been exercised. The Board of Trustees may at any time
amend or terminate the Fourth Amended Option and Award Plan, but termination
will not affect Awards previously granted. Any Options, which had vested prior
to such a termination, would remain exercisable by the holder thereof.

     Pursuant to the MRY Merger, the Company assumed MRY's Stock Option and 
Incentive Plan. As to the Options that have been granted through October 18, 
1998, generally, one-fifth are exercisable one year after the initial grant, 
one-fifth are exercisable two years following the date such Options were 
granted, one-fifth are exercisable three years following the date such 
Options were granted, one-fifth are exercisable four years following the date 
such Options were granted and the remaining one-fifth are exercisable five
years following the date such Options were granted.

                                      F-40

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


          The Company will not issue common shares under the MRY Stock Option 
and Incentive Plan. The Options already granted under the plan were assumed with
the original grant dates. The number of original MRY Options and the original 
MRY grant prices were converted to the Company's equivalent using a conversion 
ratio of 0.54. They will vest over a five-year period, are exercisable upon 
vesting and expire ten years from the date of grant. The MRY Stock Option and 
Incentive Plan will terminate at such time all outstanding Options have expired 
or been exercised. Any Options, which had vested prior to such assumption, would
remain exercisable by the holder thereof.

          The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ("APB
No. 25"), in the computation of compensation expense. Under APB No. 25's
intrinsic value method, compensation expense is determined by computing the
excess of the market price of the shares over the exercise price on the
measurement date. For the Company's share options, the intrinsic value on the
measurement date (or grant date) is zero, and no compensation expense is
recognized. FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation ("Statement No. 123"), requires the Company to
disclose pro forma net income and income per share as if a fair value based
accounting method had been used in the computation of compensation expense. The
fair value of the options computed under Statement No. 123 would be recognized
over the vesting period of the options. The fair value for the Company's options
was estimated at the time the options were granted using the Black Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions for 1996,
1997 and 1998, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 6.35%, 6.33% and 5.37%;
dividend yields of 6.98%, 5.32% and 5.98%; volatility factors of the expected
market price of the Company's Common Shares of 0.226, 0.218 and 0.212; and a
weighted-average expected life of the option of seven years.

         The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
volatility. Because the Company's Options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its Options.

         For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
Options is amortized to expense over the Options' vesting period. The following
is the pro forma information for the three years ended December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996 (unaudited):

 

          The table below summarizes the Option activity of the Fourth Amended
Option and Award Plan and the MRY Stock Option and Incentive Plan for the three
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996:

                                      F-41

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

 

         As of December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, 2,865,214 shares, 1,329,516
shares and 898,075 shares were exercisable, respectively. Exercise prices for
Options outstanding as of December 31, 1998 ranged from $26 to $54.8125.
Expiration dates ranged from July 12, 2003 to October 19, 2008. The remaining
weighted-average contractual life of those Options was 7.85 years. The weighted-
average grant date fair value of Options granted during 1998 was $6.28.

18.      EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

         Under the Company's Employee Share Purchase Plan certain eligible 
officers, trustees and employees of the Company may annually acquire up to 
$100,000 of Common Shares of the Company. The aggregate number of Common Shares 
available under the Employee Share Purchase Plan shall not exceed 1,000,000, 
subject to adjustment by the Board of Trustees. The Common Shares may be 
purchased quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing 
price for a share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater of: (i) 
the closing price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and (ii) the 
average closing price for a share for all the business days in the quarter. 
During 1996, the Company issued 39,458 Common Shares at a net price of $30.44 
per share. During 1997, the Company issued 84,183 Common Shares at net prices 
that ranged from $335.63 per share to $42.08 per share and raised approximately 
$3.2 million in connection therewith. During 1998, the Company issued 93,521 
Common Shares at net prices that ranged from $35.70 per share to $42.71 per 
share and raised approximately $3.7 million in connection therewith.

19.      DISTRIBUTION REINVESTMENT AND SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

         On November 3, 1997 the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 
Registration Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a 
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan. The registration statement 
was declared effective on November 25, 1997.

                                      F-42

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

     The DRIP Plan of the Company provides holders of record and beneficial 
owners of Common Shares, Preferred Shares, and limited partnership interests in 
the Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient method of investing cash 
distributions in additional Common Shares. Common Shares may also be purchased 
on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in the Plan 
and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the Company, at the 
market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging between 0% and 5% (as 
determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan).

20.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various
environmental laws of Federal and local governments.  Compliance by the Company
with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations.  However, the Company cannot
predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current
Properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.

     The Company does not believe there is any litigation threatened against the
Company other than routine litigation arising out of the ordinary course of
business, some of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance, none
of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial statements of the Company.

     In December 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with a
multifamily residential real estate developer whereby the Company will make
investments in a limited partnership to fund its portion of the project cost.
During 1997 and 1998, the Company funded a total of $6.9 million and $23.9
million, respectively, and during 1999 the Company expects to fund approximately
$74.9 million in connection with this agreement. Subsequent to December 31,
1998, the Company has funded approximately $1 million. In addition, the Company
also funded $20 million to guarantee third party construction financing and is
obligated to fund up to an additional $20 million.

     In regards to certain properties that were under development and/or
expansion in 1998, the Company funded $31.6 million.  In 1999, the Company
expects to fund $53.9 million related to the continued development and/or
expansion of as many as five Properties.

     In regards to certain properties that were under earnout/development
agreements in 1998, no amounts were funded.  The Company expects to fund $60.4
million related to three earnout/development projects expected to be finished
during 1999. Subsequent to December 31, 1998, the Company has funded $16.2
million relating to the completion/acquisition of Copper Canyon. In addition,
the Company may be required to fund an additional $1 million earnout payment to
the developer for Copper Canyon if certain specified operation levels are met.

     In connection with the Wellsford Merger, the Company has provided a $14.8
million credit enhancement with respect to bonds issued to finance certain
public improvements at a multifamily development project.  Pursuant to the terms
of a Stock Purchase Agreement with Wellsford Real Properties, Inc. ("WRP
Newco"), the Company will agree to purchase up to 1,000,000 shares of WRP Newco
Series A Preferred at $25.00 per share over a three-year period ending on May
30, 2000. As of December 31, 1998, no shares of WRP Newco Series A Preferred had
been acquired by the Company.

                                      F-43

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

     In connection with the MRY Merger, the Company extended a $25 million, one
year, non-revolving Senior Debt Agreement to MRYP Spinco.  At December 31, 1998,
approximately $18.3 million was outstanding, bearing interest at LIBOR plus 250
basis points.  The Company has a potential obligation to fund up to an
additional $6.7 million under the Senior Debt Agreement.

     The Company has lease agreements with an affiliated party covering office
space occupied by the management offices located in Tampa, Florida (the "Tampa
Office"), Atlanta, Georgia (the "Atlanta Office"); and Chicago, Illinois (the
"Chicago Office").  The Tampa Office agreement expires on October 31, 2001, the
Atlanta Office agreement expires on June 20, 2001 and the Chicago Office
agreement expires on July 11, 2000.

     The Company also has six additional lease agreements with unaffiliated
parties covering space occupied by the management offices located in Dallas,
Texas (the "Dallas Office"); Bethesda, Maryland (the "Bethesda Office"); Denver,
Colorado (the "Denver Office"); Seattle, Washington (the "Seattle Office");
Scottsdale, Arizona (the "Scottsdale Office") and Irvine, California (the
"Irvine Office").  The lease agreement for the Dallas Office expires on
September 30, 2005, the lease agreement for the Bethesda Office expires on
February 1, 2004, the lease agreement for the Denver Office expires on December
31, 2002, the lease agreement for the Seattle Office expires on June 30, 2003,
the lease agreement for the Scottsdale Office expires on July 31, 2004 and the
lease agreement for the Irvine Office expires on July 31, 2000.

     The Company also has a lease agreement with an affiliated party covering
office space occupied by the corporate headquarters located in Chicago,
Illinois.  This agreement, as amended, expires on July 31, 2001.  In addition,
commencing June 15, 1998, the Company increased the office space occupied by its
corporate personnel.  The lease agreement covering the additional space expires
on December 31, 2004.  Subsequent to December 31, 1998, the Company is planning
on increasing its office space again with leasing terms to be determined.

     During the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, total rentals,
including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and utilities,
aggregated $2,528,150, $1,491,766 and $1,020,311, respectively.

     The minimum basic aggregate rental commitment under the above described
leases in years succeeding December 31, 1998 is as follows:

                                 ------------------------------
                                     Year            Amount     
                                 ------------------------------
                                     1999         $ 2,689,662
                                     2000           2,764,818
                                     2001           2,515,258
                                     2002           2,238,029
                                     2003           1,979,775
                                 ------------------------------
                                     Total        $12,187,542 
                                 ------------------------------

21.      TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES

         In connection with the Wellsford Merger, Jeffrey Lynford and Edward
Lowenthal (trustees of the Company) each executed a consulting agreement with
the Company. Each consulting agreement has a term of five years from May 30,
1997, the closing date of the Wellsford Merger. Pursuant to the consulting

                                      F-44

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

agreements, each of Messrs. Lynford and Lowenthal will serve as a senior
management consultant to the Company and will receive compensation at the rate
of $200,000 per year plus reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.

         In connection with the EWR Merger, in December 1997, Stephen Evans (a
trustee of the Company) executed a consulting agreement with an affiliate of the
Company. The consulting agreement has a term of two years and expires on
December 31, 1999. Pursuant to the consulting agreement, Mr. Evans will serve as
a senior management consultant to the Company and will receive compensation at
the rate of $225,000 per year. Mr. Evans also received an option to purchase
115,500 Common Shares that will vest in three equal annual installments and will
have an exercise price equal to $50.125 per Common Share. Mr. Evans will also be
eligible to participate in all of the Company's employee benefit plans in which
persons in comparable positions participate, treating Mr. Evans as an employee.

         In connection with the affiliated lease agreements discussed in Note
20, the Company paid Equity Office Holdings, L.L.C. ("EOH") $114,539, $145,511
and $118,919 in connection with the Chicago Office, $194,506, $177,793 and
$137,638 in connection with the Tampa Office and $772,320, $632,693 and $409,392
in connection with the space occupied by the corporate headquarters for the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Also, the Company
paid $55,117 in connection with the Atlanta Office for the year ended 
December 31, 1998. Amounts due to EOH were $136,000 and $59,675 as of December
31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

         Equity Group Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries,
including, Equity Properties & Development, L.P. and Equity Properties
Management Corp. (collectively, "EGI"), have provided certain services to the
Company which include, but are not limited to, investor relations, corporate
secretarial, real estate tax evaluation services and market consulting and
research services. Fees paid to EGI for these services amounted to approximately
$1.1 million, $1.1 million and $1.3 million for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Amounts due to EGI were $57,408 and $74,578
as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

         Artery Property Management, Inc., a real estate property management
company ("APMI") in which Mr. Goldberg, a trustee of the Company, is a two-
thirds owner and chairman of the board of directors, provided the Company
consulting services with regard to property acquisitions and additional business
opportunities. Fees paid for those services and reimbursed expenses amounted to
approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1996. In connection
with the acquisition of certain Properties from Mr. Goldberg and his affiliates
during 1995, the Company made a loan to Mr. Goldberg and APMI of $15,212,000
evidenced by two notes and secured by 465,541 OP Units. At December 31, 1998,
approximately $14.6 million was outstanding and 445,540 OP Units secured this
loan. In connection with the acquisition of certain Properties from Mr. Goldberg
and his affiliates during 1998, the Company made a $12,000,000 revolving loan to
Mr. Goldberg and his wife in September 1998. At December 31, 1998, approximately
$3.9 million was outstanding.

                                      F-45

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

     Certain related entities provided services to the Company. These included,
but were not limited to, Rosenberg & Liebentritt, P.C., which provided legal
services, and Arthur A. Greenberg, which provided tax advisory services. Fees
paid to these related entities in the aggregate amounted to approximately $1.3
million and $0.7 million for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. In addition, The Riverside Agency, Inc., which provided insurance
brokerage services, was paid fees and reimbursed premiums and loss claims in the
amount of $0.3 million and $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 1997
and 1996. As of December 31, 1997, $643,519 was owed to Rosenberg & Liebentritt,
P.C. for legal fees incurred in connection with securities offerings, litigation
matters, property acquisitions and other general corporate matters.

     Rudnick & Wolfe, a law firm in which Mr. Errol Halperin, a trustee of the
Company, is a partner, provided legal services to the Company.  Fees paid to
this firm amounted to approximately $2.2 million, $2.3 million and $4,300 for
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson, a law firm in which Ms. Sheli
Rosenberg's (a trustee of the Company) husband is a partner, provided legal
services to the Company. Fees paid to this firm amounted to $29,146 for the
year ended December 31, 1998.

     In addition, the Company has provided acquisitions, asset and property
management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by the
Company.  Fees received for providing such services were approximately $5.6
million, $5.7 million and $6.7 million for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

22.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis of a
December 31 year end.  The 1998 and 1997 net income per weighted average Common
Share amounts have been presented and, where appropriate, restated to comply
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per Share.
For further discussion of net income per weighted average Common Share
outstanding and impact of Statement No. 128, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  Amounts are in thousands, except for per share amounts.

                                      F-46

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

 

                                      F-47

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

23.      REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

         The following tables set forth the reconciliation of net income and
total assets for the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 (see also Note 5 for further discussion).

 

                                     F-48

 
                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

 

                                      F-49

 
                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

 

(1)  The Company has one primary reportable business segment, which consists of
     investment in rental real estate. The Company's primary business is owning,
     managing, and operating multifamily residential properties which includes
     the generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of
     apartment units to tenants.

(2)  The Company has a segment for corporate level activity including such items
     as interest income earned on short-term investments, interest income earned
     on investment in mortgage notes, general and administrative expenses, and
     interest expense on mortgage notes payable and unsecured note issuances. In
     addition, the Company has a segment for third party management activity
     that is immaterial and does not meet the threshold requirements of a
     reportable segment as provided for in Statement No. 131. Interest expense
     on debt is not allocated to individual Properties, even if the Properties
     secure such debt. Further, income allocated to Minority Interests is not
     allocated to the Properties.

24.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     On January 6, 1999 the Company disposed of Fox Run Apartments, a 337-unit
multifamily property located in Little Rock, Arkansas, to an unaffiliated third
party for a total sales price of $10.6

                                      F-50

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)

million. This Property was classified as real estate held for disposition at
December 31, 1998.

     On January 6, 1999 the Company disposed of Greenwood Forest Apartments, a
239-unit multifamily property located in Little Rock, Arkansas, to an
unaffiliated third party for a total sales price of $7.5 million.  This Property
was classified as real estate held for disposition at December 31, 1998.

     On January 6, 1999 the Company disposed of Walnut Ridge Apartments, a 252-
unit multifamily property located in Little Rock, Arkansas, to an unaffiliated
third party for a total sales price of $7.9 million. This Property was
classified as real estate held for disposition at December 31, 1998.

     On January 6, 1999 the Company disposed of Williamsburg Apartments, a 211-
unit multifamily property located in Little Rock, Arkansas, to an unaffiliated
third party for a total sales price of $6.7 million. This Property was
classified as real estate held for disposition at December 31, 1998.

     On January 22, 1999, the Company acquired Fireside Park Apartments, a 236-
unit multifamily property located in Rockville, Maryland, from an affiliated
party for a purchase price of approximately $14.3 million, which included the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $8.9 million.

     On January 22, 1999, the Company acquired Mill Pond Apartments, a 240-unit
multifamily property located in Glen Burnie, Maryland, from an affiliated party
for a purchase price of approximately $11.7 million, which included the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $8 million.

     On January 27, 1999 the Company disposed of The Hawthorne Apartments, a
276-unit multifamily property located in Phoenix, Arizona, to an unaffiliated
third party for a total sales price of $20.5 million. This Property was
classified as real estate held for disposition at December 31, 1998.

     On January 28, 1999, the Company acquired Aspen Crossing Apartments, a 192-
unit multifamily property located in Wheaton, Maryland, from an affiliated party
for a purchase price of approximately $11.4 million.

     On February 24, 1999, the Company acquired Copper Canyon Apartments, a 222-
unit multifamily property located in Denver, Colorado, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $16.2 million.

     On February 24, 1999, the Company declared a $0.71 distribution per Common
Share, $0.585938 per Series A Preferred Share, $0.570313 per Series B Depositary
Share and per Series C Depositary Share, $0.5375 per Series D Depositary Share,
$0.4375 per Series E Preferred Share, $0.603125 per Series F Preferred Share,
$0.453125 per Series G Depositary Share, $0.4375 per Series H Preferred Share,
$0.55125 per Series I Preferred Share, $0.5375 per Series J Preferred Share,
$1.03625 per Series K Preferred Share and $0.4765625 per Series L Preferred
Share for the quarter ended March 31, 1999 to shareholders of record on March
19, 1999.

     On February 25, 1999, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 1,262,264 Common Shares (the "Resale Shelf
Registration") of which 1,262,264 Common Shares may be issued by the Company to
holders of 1,262,264 OP Units. The SEC declared the Resale Shelf Registration
effective as of March 5, 1999.

     On March 2, 1999 the Company disposed of The Atrium Apartments, a 208-unit
multifamily 

                                      F-51

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (CONTINUED)


property located in Durham, North Carolina, to an unaffiliated third party for a
total sales price of $10.8 million.

     On March 4, 1999, the Company acquired Siena Terrace Apartments, a 356-unit
multifamily property located in Lake Forest, California, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $33 million.

                                      F-52

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998

 

                                      S-1

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 1998

 

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998

 

                                      S-3

 
                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 1998

 

                                      S-4


 

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998



 

                                      S-5

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998

 

                                      S-6

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998



                                      S-7

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998




                                      S-8

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1998
 
 

                                      S-9

 
                    EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST   
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
                               December 31, 1998

                                                        
                                                                
                                     S-10 
                                          
                                            
                                                                 

 


                                 SCHEDULE III

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

                               December 31, 1998


NOTES:
(A)  The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total investment in
     real estate amount was $333,358,567 as of December 31, 1998.

     The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total real estate held
     for disposition amount was $4,388,863 as of December 31, 1998.

(B)  The aggregate cost for Federal Income Tax purposes as of December 31, 1998
     was approximately $9.1 billion.

(C)  The life to compute depreciation for furniture & fixtures is 5 to 7 years.

(D)  These two properties are encumbered by $14,700,888 in bonds. 

(E) These 17 properties are encumbered by $136,000,000 in bonds. 

(F) These four properties are encumbered by $15,500,000 in bonds.

(G)  This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents furniture,
     fixtures and equipment owned by the Management Business.

(H)  This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents furniture,
     fixtures and equipment owned by the Operating Partnership.

(I)  Improvements are net of write-off of fully depreciated assets which are no
     longer in service.

(J)  Combined with Cedar Cove

(K)  Formerly known as Oxford & Sussex

(L)  Formerly known as Post Place 

(M)  Formerly known as The Vinings at Coral Springs

(N)  Formerly known as The Plantations (NC)

(O)  These five properties are pledged as additional collateral in connection
     with the tax-exempt bond refinancing of $176,375,000.

(P)  These 21 properties are encumbered by $132,936,821 in bonds.

(Q)  These 5 properties are encumbered by a $49,525,506 note payable.

(R)  These 5 properties are encumbered by $50,000,000 of mortgage debt.

(S)  These properties are currently under development and will be completed
     subsequent to December 31, 1998.

(T)  These ten properties are encumbered by $176,375,000 in bonds.

(U)  Includes Port Royale I, Port Royale II and Port Royale III. Port Royale III
     is encumbered by a third party mortgage.

* Four Lakes was constructed in phases between 1968 & 1988.

(#) The Lodge-Texas was struck by a tornado that destroyed most of the property.
    The property was reconstructed during 1989 & 1990.

(x) Pines of Springdale was constructed in phases between 1985 & 1987.


                                     S-11

 
                                 SCHEDULE III

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
             REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (CONTINUED)
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997,
and 1996 are as follows:

 

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997, and 1996 are as follows:

 

                                     S-12

