
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST



 
                                   FORM 10-K
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D. C.  20549

             [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the Fiscal Year Ended DECEMBER 31, 1996

                                      OR

           [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        Commission File Number: 1-12252

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
            (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

           MARYLAND                                        36-3877868
(State or Other Jurisdiction of                         (I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization)                         Identification No.)

 Two North Riverside Plaza, Chicago, Illinois               60606
   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)               (Zip Code)

                                (312) 474-1300
             (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Shares of Beneficial Interest,           New York Stock Exchange
           $0.01 Par Value                       (Name of Each Exchange
          (Title of Class)                        on Which Registered)

Preferred Shares of  Beneficial Interest,       New York Stock Exchange
         $0.01 Par Value                        (Name of Each Exchange 
         (Title of Class)                        on Which Registered)

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes     X     No  _____
                                          -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of voting shares held by non-affiliates was
approximately $2.4 billion based upon the closing price on March 19, 1997 of
$47.50 using beneficial ownership of shares rules adopted pursuant to Section 13
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to exclude voting shares owned by
Trustees and Officers, some of whom may not be held to be affiliates upon
judicial determination.

At March 20, 1997 51,769,001 of the Registrant's Common Shares of Beneficial
Interest were outstanding.

 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Part II incorporates by reference the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
dated March 1, 1996 and filed on March 7, 1996.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with  the
Company's Form S-11 on May 21, 1993 (Registration No. 33-63158) and as amended
thereafter: Exhibit 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, 3.2, 10.1, 10.1A, 10.2, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6,
10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.11, 10.12, 10.14 and 10.15.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form S-11 on November 23, 1993 (Registration No. 33-72080) and as
amended thereafter: Exhibit 10.16, 10.16A, 10.17, and 10.17A.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form S-11 on June 17, 1994 (Registration No. 33-80420) and as amended
thereafter: Exhibit 10.10 and 10.14A.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Operating Partnership's Form 10 on October 7, 1994 (Registration No. 0-24920)
and as amended thereafter: Exhibit 4.1, 4.2, 10.1B, 10.13, 10.18 and 10.19.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibit as filed with the
Operating Partnership's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995 on
November 9, 1995 and as amended thereafter: Exhibit 10.1C.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Operating Partnership's Form 10-k on March 16, 1995 and as amended thereafter:
Exhibit 3.1A and 10.3.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibit as filed with the
Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 on March 18, 1996 and
as amended thereafter: Exhibit 4.3.


 
                                    PART I

                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                               


 
                                    PART I

Item 1.  Business

General

     Equity Residential Properties Trust (the "Company") is a self-administered
and self-managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").  The Company was
organized in March 1993 and commenced operations on August 18, 1993 upon
completion of its initial public offering (the "IPO") of 13,225,000 common
shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Shares").  The
Company was formed to continue the multifamily property business objectives and
acquisition strategies of certain affiliated entities controlled by Mr. Samuel
Zell, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Company.  These entities had been
engaged in the acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily residential
properties since 1969.

     The Company, through its subsidiaries, which include ERP Operating Limited
Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), Equity Residential Properties
Management Limited Partnership and Equity Residential Properties Management
Limited Partnership II (collectively, the "Management Partnerships"), a series
of partnerships (the "Financing Partnerships") and limited liability companies
("LLCs") which beneficially own certain properties encumbered by mortgage
indebtedness, is the successor to the multifamily property business of Equity
Properties Management Corp. ("EPMC"), an entity controlled by Mr. Zell, and a
series of other entities which owned 69 of the multifamily properties
contributed at the time of the Company's IPO (the "Initial Properties").

     As of December 31, 1996, the Company owned or had interests in 239
multifamily properties of which it controlled a portfolio of 218 multifamily
properties (individually, a "Property" and collectively, the "Properties")
containing 67,705 units, including 61 of the Initial Properties.  The remaining
21 properties represent an investment in partnership interests and subordinated
mortgages collateralized by 21 properties (the "Additional Properties")
containing 3,896 units, which units are property managed by a third party
unaffiliated entity. The Company's Properties and the Additional Properties are
located throughout the United States in the following states:  Arizona,
Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana,
Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma,
Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington.  In addition,
Equity Residential Properties Management Corp. ("Management Corp.") and Equity
Residential Properties Management Corp. II ("Management Corp. II") also provide
residential property and asset management services to 40 properties containing
13,054 units owned by affiliated entities.  The Company is, together with the
Operating Partnership, one of the largest publicly traded REITs based on the
aggregate market value of its outstanding Common Shares) and is the largest
publicly traded REIT owner of multifamily properties (based on the number of
apartment units owned and total revenues earned.).

     Since the Company's IPO and through December 31, 1996, the Company, through
the Operating Partnership, has acquired direct or indirect interests in 160
properties (which included the debt collateralized by six Properties) containing
49,679 units in the aggregate for a total purchase price of approximately $2.4
billion, including the assumption of approximately $554.2 million of


 
                                    PART I

mortgage indebtedness. The Company also made an $89 million investment in
partnership interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by the
Additional Properties. Since the IPO, the Company has disposed of 11 of its
properties containing 3,699 units for a total sales price of approximately $93.3
million and the release of mortgage indebtedness in the amount of $20.5 million.

     The Company's corporate headquarters and executive offices are located in
Chicago, Illinois.  In addition, the Company has regional operations centers in
Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Denver, Colorado; Seattle, Washington; Tampa,
Florida and Bethesda, Maryland and area offices in Atlanta, Georgia; Las Vegas,
Nevada; Phoenix, Arizona; Portland, Oregon; San Antonio and Houston, Texas;
Ypsilanti, Michigan; Raleigh, North Carolina; Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and
Irvine, California.  The Company has 2,189 full-time employees (1,944 of which
are on site at the Properties).  Each of the Company's Properties is directed by
an on-site manager, who supervises the on-site employees and is responsible for
the day-to-day operations of the Property.  The manager is generally assisted by
a leasing administrator and/or property administrator.  In addition, a
maintenance director at each Property supervises a maintenance staff whose
responsibilities include a variety of tasks, including responding to service
requests, preparing vacant apartments for the next resident and performing
preventive maintenance procedures year-round.

Business Objectives and Operating Strategies

     The Company seeks to maximize both current income and long-term growth in
income, thereby increasing:  (i) the value of the Properties; (ii) distributions
on a per Common Share basis; and (iii) shareholders' value.

     The Company's strategies for accomplishing these objectives are:

 .    maintaining and increasing Property occupancy while increasing rental
     rates;

 .    controlling expenses, providing regular preventive maintenance, making
     periodic renovations and enhancing amenities;

 .    maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total market capitalization of
     less than 50%; and

 .    pursuing acquisitions that: (i) are available at prices below estimated
     replacement costs; (ii) have potential for rental rate and/or occupancy
     increases; (iii) have attractive locations in their respective markets; and
     (iv) provide anticipated total returns that will increase the Company's
     distributions per Common Share and the Company's overall market value.
     
     The Company is committed to tenant satisfaction by striving to anticipate
industry trends and implementing strategies and policies consistent with
providing quality tenant services.  In addition, the Company continuously
surveys rental rates of competing properties and conducts satisfaction surveys
of residents to determine the factors they consider most important in choosing a
particular apartment unit.


 
                                    PART I

Acquisition Strategies

     The Company anticipates that future property acquisitions will be located
in the continental United States.  Management will continue to use market
information to evaluate acquisition opportunities.  The Company's market data
base allows it to review the primary economic indicators of the markets where
the Company currently manages Properties and where it expects to expand its
operations.  Acquisitions may be financed from various sources of capital, which
may include undistributed funds from operations ("FFO"), issuance of additional
equity securities, sales of Properties and collateralized and uncollateralized
borrowings.  In addition, the Company may acquire additional multifamily
properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership
interests in the Operating Partnership ("OP Units") as consideration for the
acquired properties.  Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, partially
defer the sellers' tax consequences.

     When evaluating potential acquisitions, the Company will consider: (i) the
geographic area and type of community; (ii) the location, construction quality,
condition and design of the property; (iii) the current and projected cash flow
of the property and the ability to increase cash flow; (iv) the potential for
capital appreciation of the property; (v) the terms of resident leases,
including the potential for rent increases; (vi) the potential for economic
growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the
property is located; (vii) the occupancy and demand by residents for properties
of a similar type in the vicinity (the overall market and submarket); (viii) the
prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property;
and (ix) competition from existing multifamily properties and the potential for
the construction of new multifamily properties in the area.  The Company expects
to purchase multifamily properties with physical and market characteristics
similar to the Properties.

Disposition Strategies

     Management will use market information to evaluate dispositions.  Factors
the Company considers in deciding whether to dispose of its Properties include
the following:  (i) the amount of increases in new construction; (ii) areas
where the economy is expected to decline substantially; and (iii) markets where
the Company does not intend to establish long-term concentrations.  The Company
will reinvest the proceeds received from property dispositions to fund property
acquisitions.  In addition, when feasible the Company will structure these
transactions as tax deferred exchanges.

Financing Strategies

     The Company intends to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total
market capitalization of 50% or less.  At December 31, 1996, the Company had a
ratio of approximately 31% based on the closing price of the Company's Common
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and assuming conversion of all OP Units
plus the liquidation preference of non-voting preferred shares of beneficial
interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Preferred Shares").


 
                                    PART I

Equity Offerings
- - ----------------

     In January 1994, the Company completed a public offering of 5,750,000
Common Shares (the "Second Public Offering") at $29.00 per share and received
net proceeds of approximately $157.4 million in connection therewith.

     In June 1994, the Company concluded a private placement of 1,569,270 Common
Shares to six accredited institutional investors (the "Private Equity Offering")
and received net proceeds of approximately $47 million in connection therewith.
The prices at which the Common Shares were sold ranged from $29.43 to $32.87.

     In July 1994, the Company completed a public offering of 9,200,000 Common
Shares (the "Third Public Offering") at $31.25 per share and received net
proceeds of approximately $271.7 million in connection therewith.

     In September 1994, the Company registered 5,000,000 Common Shares pursuant
to an equity shelf registration statement (the "Equity Shelf Registration") of
which 2,735,320 registered Common Shares were sold in separate transactions
completed in October 1994 (collectively, the "Shelf Offering").  The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $81 million in connection therewith.  The
prices at which the Common Shares were sold ranged from $29.34 to $30.17.

     In June 1995, the Company sold 6,120,000 of its 9 3/8% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(liquidation preference $25 per share) (the "Series A Preferred Shares"),
pursuant to a $250 million shelf registration (the "Preferred Shelf
Registration"), at $25 per share.  The Company raised gross proceeds of $153
million from this offering (the "Series A Preferred Share Offering").

     On September 11, 1995, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC") a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register up to $500
million of Preferred Shares, Common Shares and depositary shares, pursuant to a
shelf offering (the "Second Shelf Registration").

     In November 1995, the Company sold 5,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series
B Depositary Shares") pursuant to the Second Shelf Registration.  Each Series B
Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series B Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference of each
of the Series B Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series B
Depositary Share).  The Company raised gross proceeds of approximately $125
million from the sale of the Series B Depositary Shares.

     In January 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,725,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.375 per share (the "January
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million in connection therewith.  In February 1996, the Company completed an
offering of 2,300,000 registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price
of $29.50 per share (the "February 1996 Common Share Offering") and received net
proceeds of approximately $67.8 million in connection therewith.


 
                                    PART I

     On May 21, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.50 per share.
On May 28, 1996 the Company completed the sale of 73,287 publicly registered
Common Shares to employees of the Company and to employees of Equity Group
Investments, Inc. ("EGI") and certain of their respective affiliates and
consultants at a net price equal to $30.50 per share.  On May 30, 1996, the
Company completed an offering of 1,264,400 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were sold at a net price of $30.75 per share.  The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $111.3 million in connection with the sale of the
3,637,687 Common Shares mentioned above (collectively, the "May 1996 Common
Share Offerings").

     In September 1996, the Company sold 4,600,000 depositary shares (the
"Series C Depositary Shares") pursuant to the Second Shelf Registration.  Each
Series C Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8%
Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par
value per share (the "Series C Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference
of each of the Series C Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per
Series C Depositary Share).  The Company raised gross proceeds of $115 million
from this offering (the "Series C Preferred Share Offering").

     On September 18, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the "1996
Equity Shelf Registration").

     Also in September 1996, the Company completed the sale of 2,272,728
publicly registered Common Shares which were sold at net price of $33 per share.
The Company received net proceeds of approximately $75 million in connection
with this offering (the "September 1996 Common Share Offering").

     In November 1996, the Company issued 39,458 Common Shares pursuant to the
1996 Nonqualified Employee Share Purchase Plan at a net price of $30.44 and
received net proceeds of approximately $1.2 million.

     In December 1996, the Company completed offerings of 4,440,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $41.25 per
share (the "December 1996 Common Share Offerings").  The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $177.4 million.

Debt Offerings
- - --------------

     In May 1994, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of 8 1/2%
unsecured notes due May 15, 1999 (the "1999 Notes") guaranteed by the Company in
a private placement (the "Debt Offering") to qualified institutional buyers as
defined in Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities
Act").  The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of $122.9 million in
connection with the Debt Offering.


 
                                    PART I

     In December 1994, the Operating Partnership registered $500 million in debt
securities pursuant to a debt shelf registration statement (the "Debt Shelf
Registration") of which $100 million of floating rate notes due December 22,
1997 (the "Floating Rate Notes") were issued by the Operating Partnership on
December 21, 1994 (the "Public Debt Offering").  The Operating Partnership
received net proceeds of $98.6 million in connection with the Public Debt
Offering.  The Floating Rate Notes bear interest at three month London Interbank
Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.75%.

     In April 1995, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of 7.95%
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2002 Notes") pursuant to the Debt Shelf
Registration in a public debt offering (the "Second Public Debt Offering").  The
Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $123.1 million in
connection with the Second Public Debt Offering.

     In August 1996, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of 7.57%
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2026 Notes") in connection with the Debt Shelf
Registration in a public debt offering (the "Third Public Debt Offering").  The
Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $149 million in
connection with this issuance.
 
     On September 18, 1996, the Operating Partnership filed with the SEC a Form
S-3 Registration Statement to register $500 million of debt securities (the
"1996 Debt Shelf Registration").

Credit Facility

     The Company, through the Operating Partnership, had a $250 million
unsecured line of credit with Wells Fargo Realty Advisors Funding Incorporated,
as agent, through November 14, 1996.  On November 15, 1996, the Company
completed an agreement with Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York ("Morgan
Guaranty") and Bank of America Illinois ("Bank of America") to provide the
Company a $250 million unsecured line of credit.  This new line of credit
matures in November 1999 and borrowings generally will bear interest at a per
annum rate of one, two, three or six month LIBOR, plus 0.75%, and is subject to
an annual facility fee of $500,000.  As of December 31, 1996, there were no
amounts outstanding on this line of credit.

Recent Developments

     In January 1997, the Company acquired three properties from unaffiliated
third parties for a total purchase price of approximately $44.6 million, which
included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $20.2 million.
These properties were Town Center, a 258-unit property located in Kingwood,
Texas; Harborview, a 160-unit property located in San Pedro, California and The
Cardinal,  a 256-unit property located in Greensboro, North Carolina.

     On January 16, 1997 the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of
Merger regarding the planned acquisition of the multifamily property business of
Wellsford Residential Property Trust ("Wellsford"), a Maryland real estate
investment trust, through the tax free merger of the Company and Wellsford (the
"Merger").  The transaction is valued at approximately $1 billion and 


 
                                    PART I

includes 75 multifamily properties containing 19,004 units. In the Merger, each
outstanding common share of beneficial interest of Wellsford will be converted
into .625 of a Common Share of the Company, assuming the market price of a
Common Share remains in excess of $40. The Merger plans call for the issuance of
approximately 10.7 million new common shares valued at approximately $464
million based on the Company's January 16, 1997 closing price of $43.375 and
requires the assumption of all Wellsford outstanding debt of approximately $332
million and of approximately $158 million in preferred shares.

     In February 1997, the Company acquired four properties from unaffiliated
third parties for a total purchase price of approximately $90.5 million, which
included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $30.6 million.
These properties were Trails at Dominion, a 843-unit multifamily property
located in Houston, Texas; Dartmouth Woods, a 201-unit property located in
Denver, Colorado; Rincon Apartments, a 288-unit property located in Houston,
Texas; and Waterford at the Lakes, a 344-unit property located in Kent,
Washington.

     In March 1997, the Company acquired one property from an unaffiliated third
party for a total purchase price of approximately $9.15 million.  This property
was Junipers at Yarmouth, a 225-unit property located in Yarmouth, Maine.

     As of March 20, 1997, the Company completed offerings of 938,800 publicly 
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $46 per share.  The 
Company received net proceeds of approximately $43.2 million in connection with 
these offerings (the "March 1997 Common Share Offerings").

Competition

     All of the Properties are located in developed areas that include other
multifamily properties.  The number of competitive multifamily properties in a
particular area could have a material effect on the Company's ability to lease
units at the Properties or at any newly acquired properties and on the rents
charged. The Company may be competing with other entities that have greater
resources than the Company and whose managers have more experience than the
Company's officers and trustees. In addition, other forms of multifamily
properties, including multifamily properties and manufactured housing controlled
by Mr. Zell, and single-family housing, provide housing alternatives to
potential residents of multifamily properties.

Tax Status

     The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under Section 856(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), commencing with its
taxable year ending December 31, 1993.  As a result, the Company generally will
not be subject to Federal income tax to the extent it distributes 95% of its
taxable income to its shareholders.  REITs are subject to a number of
organizational and operational requirements.  If the Company fails to qualify as
a REIT in any year, its taxable income may be subject to income tax at regular
corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax).  Even if the
Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain
state and local taxes on its income and excise taxes on its undistributed
income.


 
                                    PART I

Item 2.  The Properties

     As of December 31, 1996, the Company controlled a portfolio of 218
multifamily properties located in 30 states consisting of 5,198 buildings
containing 67,705 apartment units.  The average number of units per Property was
approximately 311.  The units are typically contained in a series of two-story
buildings.  The Properties contain an aggregate of 59.5 million rentable square
feet, with an average unit size of 878 square feet.  The average rent per unit
was $673 and the average rent per square foot was $0.77.

     As of December 31, 1996, the Properties had an average occupancy rate of
95%.  Tenant leases are generally year-to-year and require security deposits.
The Properties typically provide residents with attractive amenities, which may
include a clubhouse, swimming pool, laundry facilities and cable television
access.  Certain Properties offer additional amenities such as saunas,
whirlpools, spas, sports courts and exercise rooms.

     The Company believes that the Properties provide amenities and common
facilities that create an attractive residence for tenants.  It is management's
role to monitor compliance with Property policies and to provide preventive
maintenance of the Properties including common areas, facilities and amenities.
The Company holds periodic meetings of its Property management personnel for
training and implementation of the Company's strategies. The Company believes
that, due in part to this strategy, the Properties historically have had high
occupancy rates.

     The distribution of the Properties throughout the United States reflects
the Company's belief that geographic diversification helps insulate the
portfolio from regional and economic influences.  At the same time, the Company
has sought to create clusters of Properties within each of its primary markets
in order to achieve economies of scale in management and operation; however, the
Company may acquire additional multifamily properties located anywhere in the
United States.

     The Company beneficially owns fee simple title to 211 of the Properties and
holds a 73-year leasehold interest with respect to one Property (Mallgate).
Direct fee simple title for certain of the Properties is owned by single-purpose
nominee corporations or land trusts that engage in no business other than
holding title to the Property for the benefit of the Company.  Holding title in
such a manner is expected to make it less costly to transfer such Property in
the future in the event of a sale and should facilitate financing, since lenders
often require title to a Property to be held in a single purpose entity in order
to isolate that Property from potential liabilities of other Properties.  Direct
fee simple title for certain other Properties is owned by an LLC.  In addition,
with respect to two Properties, the Company owns the debt collateralized by such
Properties and with respect to four Properties, the Company owns an interest in
the debt collateralized by the Properties.

     As of December 31, 1996, the Company had an investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by the Additional
Properties.  The Additional Properties consisted of 578 buildings containing
3,896 units, located in four states.

     The following two tables set forth certain information relating to the
Properties and the Additional Properties:


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
           PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
           PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
            PROPERTIES- CONTINUED


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
           PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
             PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
           PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
           PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 

 
Item 2. PROPERTIES
             PROPERTIES-CONTINUED

 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
             PROPERTIES- CONTINUED


 
Item 2. PROPERTIES
            PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 

                                                                

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
             PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
             PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
            PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 

(1) Encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(2) Includes La Costa Brava (JAX) and Cedar Cove.


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
        ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES

 




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
        ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES

 

Note:  All of these Additional Properties are encumbered by mortages, of which
       the Company has an investment in the second and third mortgages (which
       are subordinate to first mortgages owned by third party unaffiliated
       entities).


 
                                    PART I

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     Richard M. Perlman, a former employee of companies controlled by Mr. Zell,
filed a legal proceeding against Mr. Zell and various partnerships and
corporations controlled by Mr. Zell claiming, inter alia, that he had an
                                              ----------
interest in 20 of 46 of the Initial Properties (the "Zell Properties") and that
he suffered damages when those Properties were transferred into the REIT.  The
proceeding was filed on July 21, 1995 (Richard M. Perlman et al. v. Samuel Zell,
                                       ----------------------------------------
et al.) (United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois-
- - ------
Eastern Division, Case No. 95 C 4242).  Mr. Perlman voluntarily dismissed the
action that he previously filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,
which was known as Richard M. Perlman v. Samuel Zell, et al, Case No. 92 CH
                   ----------------------------------------
19915.  Mr. Zell believes such claims lack merit and is vigorously contesting
the claims.  The Company is not currently a party to this lawsuit.  Discovery is
currently proceeding and trial is currently anticipated to commence in June,
1997.  Because Mr. Perlman's entire claimed interest in these Properties, based
on Mr. Perlman's pleadings, does not exceed 1% of the value of these Properties,
the Company has title insurance coverage, and the Company has been indemnified
by Mr. Zell and certain of his affiliates for any actual losses incurred in
connection with such matters, the Company believes no material loss to the
Company could occur.

     On March 20, 1996, a legal proceeding (Nick J. Miletich, Administrator of
the Estates of Dorothy Miletich and Madelyne Miletich, deceased, v. Equity
Residential Properties Trust, Equity Residential Properties Management
Corporation, Curt Vajgrt, Raymond Countryman and Darla Countryman) (Iowa
District Court, Polk County, Iowa, Law Case No. CL 68908) was filed against the
Company.  This legal proceeding arises out of the Company's ownership and
management of the apartment building known as 3000 Grand Ave. in Des Moines,
Iowa and alleges that Raymond and Darla Countryman murdered Dorothy Miletich and
Madelyne Miletich, who were residents of the apartment complex, on June 15,
1995.  Raymond Countryman is a former employee of the Company.  The plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that had the Company learned of the background of Mr.
         ----------
Countryman prior to his employment, the Company would not have hired him and the
deaths of the Miletichs would have been avoided. The Company is vigorously
contesting these claims and believes it has strong defenses to these claims,
nevertheless, there is no assurance that the Company will not be held liable for
said deaths and there is no assurance that its insurance coverage will cover all
damages that may be awarded against it.

     In addition, only ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business
which is not deemed material was initiated during the year ended December 31,
1996.  The Company does not believe there is any other litigation, except as
mentioned in the previous paragraph, threatened against the Company other than
routine litigation arising out of the ordinary course of business, some of which
is expected to be covered by liability insurance, none of which is expected to
have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of the
Company.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     None.


 
                                    PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholders Matters

     The following table sets forth for the periods indicated, the high and low
sales prices for and the distributions paid on the Company's Common Shares which
trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol EQR.


     In addition, on February 25, 1997, the Company declared a $0.625
distribution per Common Share payable on April 11, 1997 to shareholders of
record on March 28, 1997.

     The number of beneficial holders of Common Shares at December 31, 1996 was
approximately 18,400.  The number of outstanding Common Shares as of December
31, 1996 was 51,154,836.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The following table sets forth selected financial and operating information
on a historical basis for the Company and the Predecessor Business.  The
following information should be read in conjunction with all of the financial
statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  The
historical operating data for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, 1993, and
1992 have been derived from the historical Financial Statements of the Company
and the Predecessor Business audited by Grant Thornton L.L.P., independent
accountants.  The historical operating data for the year ended December 31, 1996
has been derived from the historical Financial Statements of the Company audited
by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors.  Certain capitalized terms as used
herein, are defined in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.


 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
     CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED HISTORICAL, INCLUDING PREDECESSOR BUSINESS
         (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE AND PROPERTY DATA)

 


 
                                 PART II

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INFORMATION (COMBINED HISTORICAL
(CONTINUED))
 
(1) Historical results for the year ended December 31, 1992 represented the
combined results of the Predecessor Business.  Historical results for the year
ended December 31, 1993 included combined results of the Predecessor Business
for the period January 1, 1993 through August 17, 1993.

(2) In August 1995 the Company also made an $89 million investment in
partnership interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by the
Additional Properties.  The Additional Properties consist of 3,896 units.

(3) The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the performance of
real estate companies, including an equity REIT.  The new definition of FFO
adopted in March 1995 by the Board of Governors of the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines FFO as net income (loss)
(computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"),
excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and sales of property, plus
depreciation on real estate assets, and after adjustments for unconsolidated
partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships
and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company
believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a measure of the performance of an
equity REIT because, along with cash flows from operating activities, financing
activities and investing activities, it provides investors an understanding of
the ability of the Company to incur and service debt and to make capital
expenditures.  FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities
in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered an alternative to
net income as an indication of the Company's performance or to net cash flows
from operating activities as determined by GAAP as a measure of liquidity and is
not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. The Company's
calculation of FFO represents net income available to Common Shares, excluding
gains on dispositions of properties, gains on early extinguishment of debt, and
write-off of unamortized costs on refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real
estate assets, income allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of
deferred financing costs related to the Predecessor Business.  The Company's
calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized
by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs.  The
Company's calculation of FFO for 1995 and 1994 has been restated to reflect the
effects of the new definition as mentioned above.  FFO for the year ended
December 31, 1994 includes the effect of a one-time charge of approximately
$879,000 for the relocation of the property management headquarters to Chicago.
In addition, FFO for the year ended December 31, 1993 excludes the effect of
refinancing costs of approximately $3.3 million which represented costs
associated with the prepayment of certain mortgage loans.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7.  OVERVIEW

     The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and
financial condition of the Company should be read in conjunction with "Selected
Financial Data" and the historical Consolidated Financial Statements thereto
appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Due to the Company's ability to control
the Operating Partnership, the Management Partnerships, the Financing
Partnerships and the LLCs, each entity has been consolidated with the Company
for financial reporting purposes.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

          Since the Company's IPO, the Company has acquired direct or indirect
interests in 160 properties (the "Acquired Properties"), containing 49,679 units
in the aggregate for a total purchase price of approximately $2.4 billion,
including the assumption of approximately $554.2 million of mortgage
indebtedness.  The Company's interest in six of the Acquired Properties at the
time of acquisition thereof consisted solely of ownership of the debt
collateralized by such Acquired Properties. The Company purchased ten of such
Acquired Properties or 2,694 units between the IPO and December 31, 1993 (the
"1993 Acquired Properties"); 84 of such Acquired Properties or 26,285 units in
1994 (the "1994 Acquired Properties"); 17 of such Acquired Properties or 5,035
units in 1995 (the "1995 Acquired Properties") and 49 of such Acquired
Properties consisting of 15,665 units in 1996 (the "1996 Acquired Properties").
In addition, in August 1995, the Company made an investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by the 21 Additional
Properties.  The Acquired Properties were presented in the Consolidated and
Combined Financial Statements of the Company from the date of each acquisition.

          During 1995, the Company also disposed of six properties containing
2,445 units (the "1995 Disposed Properties") for a total sales price of
approximately $52 million and the release of mortgage indebtedness of $20.5
million. During 1996, the Company disposed of five properties containing 1,254
units (the "1996 Disposed Properties ") for a total sales price of approximately
$41.3 million.

          The Company's overall results of operations for the three years ended
December 31, 1996 have been significantly impacted by the Company's acquisition
activity.  The significant changes in rental revenues, property and maintenance
expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, depreciation expense, property
management and interest expense can all primarily be attributed to the
acquisition of the Acquired Properties.  The impact of the Acquired Properties
is discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

          Properties that the Company owned for all of both 1996 and 1995 (the
"1996 Same Store Properties") and Properties that the Company owned for all of
both 1995 and 1994 (the "1995 Same Store Properties") also impacted the
Company's results of operations and are discussed as well in the following
paragraphs.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

   COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

   For the year ended December 31, 1996, income before gain on disposition of
properties, extraordinary items and allocation to Minority Interests increased
by $37.3 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 1995. This
increase was primarily due to increases in rental revenues net of increases in
property and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, property
management expenses, depreciation, interest expense and general and
administrative expenses. All of the increases in the various line item accounts
mentioned above can be primarily attributed to the 1996 Acquired Properties and
1995 Acquired Properties.  These increases were partially offset by the 1996
Disposed Properties and the 1995 Disposed Properties.  Interest income earned on
the Company's mortgage note investment increased by approximately $8 million and
was an additional factor that impacted the year  to year changes.

   In regard to the 1996 Same Store Properties, rental revenues increased by
approximately $15.9 million or 4.8 % primarily  as a result of higher rental
rates charged to new tenants and tenant renewals and higher average occupancy
levels.  Overall property operating expenses which include property and
maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance and an allocation of property
management expenses increased approximately $1.7  million or 1.2%.  This
increase was primarily the result of higher payroll expenses and  utilities
costs.  For 1996 the Company also increased its per unit charge for property
level insurance which increased insurance expense by approximately $0.7 million.
In addition, real estate taxes increased due to reassessments on certain of the
1996 Same Store Properties.

   Property management represents expenses associated with the management of the
Company's Properties.  These expenses increased by approximately $2.3 million
primarily as a result of the expansion of the Company's property management
business with the addition of a regional operations center ("ROC") in Seattle,
Washington and during the third quarter of 1996 the addition of two new area
offices located in Raleigh, North Carolina and Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.  Other
factors that impacted this increase were higher payroll and travel costs and
legal and professional fees.

   Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management expenses are
associated with the management of properties not owned by the Company that are
managed for affiliates.  These revenues decreased by $0.3 million primarily due
to the disposition of certain of these properties.

   Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $3.8 million.  This increase was primarily the result
of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which increased
by $75.8 million.  However, the Company's effective interest cost decreased from
8.09% in 1995 to 7.87% in 1996.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

   General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $1.7 million between the years under
comparison.  This increase was primarily due to adding corporate personnel,
higher salary costs and shareholder reporting costs as well as an increase in
professional fees.  General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total
revenues were 2.06% for the year ended December 31, 1996, which was a slight
decrease from 2.08% in 1995.

COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

   For the year ended December 31, 1995, income before gain from disposition of
properties, extraordinary items and allocation to Minority Interest increased by
$13.8 million when compared to the year ended December  31, 1994.  This increase
was primarily due to increases in rental revenues net of increases in interest
expense, property and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance,
property management expenses, depreciation expense and general and
administrative expenses. All of the increases in the various line item accounts
mentioned above can be primarily attributed to the 1995 Acquired Properties and
1994 Acquired Properties which was partially offset by the 1995 Disposed
Properties.  Increases in fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and
asset management expenses as well as interest income of approximately $4.9
million earned on the Company's mortgage note investment were additional factors
that impacted the change from 1994 to 1995.

     In regard to the 1995 Same Store Properties, rental revenues increased by
approximately $5.5 million or 4% as a result of higher rental rates charged to
new tenants and tenant renewals.  Overall property operating expenses which
include property and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance and an
allocation of property management expenses increased approximately $0.9 million
or 1.5%.  This increase was the result of higher leasing and advertising costs,
repair and maintenance and real estate taxes for certain of the 1995 Same Store
Properties located in Texas.

     Property management represents expenses associated with the management of
the Company's Properties.  These expenses increased by approximately $5 million
primarily as a result of the expansion of the Company's property management with
the addition of ROCs in Bethesda, Maryland, Denver, Colorado and Seattle,
Washington.  These new ROCs were the result of acquiring Artery Property
Management, Inc. ("Artery") in December 1994 and assuming property management
for 31 Properties in January and February, 1995.

     Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management expenses are
associated with the management of properties not owned by the Company that are
managed for affiliates.  These revenues increased by $2.3 million and expenses
increased by  $1.8 million, primarily due to the management of an additional
6,213 units for certain properties owned by various Artery entities.


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

     Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $42.8 million.  Of this increase, $18.1 million was
due  to the interest associated with the debt assumed on the 1994 Acquired
Properties and 1995 Acquired Properties, $4.1 million was due to the 1999 Notes,
$7.3 million was due to the Floating Rate Notes, $8 million was due to the
Company's line of credit and $7.3 million was due to the 2002 Notes.  This
increase was partially offset by a decrease of approximately $2 million in
interest expense due to repayment of mortgage indebtedness in the amount of
$45.5 million on seven of the Company's Properties at various times in 1995.

     General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased by approximately $2.1 million, primarily due to an increase
in state and local income and franchise taxes as well as adding corporate
personnel and incurring higher administrative costs associated with increasing
the size of the Company.  However, general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of total revenues decreased from 2.6% in 1994 to 2.1% in 1995.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As of January 1, 1996, the Company had approximately $13.4 million of cash and
cash equivalents and $158 million available on its line of credit.  After taking
into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs, cash
and cash equivalents at December 31, 1996 was approximately $147.3 million and
the amounts available on the Company's line of credit were $250 million.  In
addition, the Company had $3.6 million of proceeds from a property sale included
in deposits-restricted.  The following discussion also explains the changes in
net cash provided by operating activities, net cash (used for) investing
activities and net cash provided by financing activities, all of which are
presented in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

   Part of the Company's strategy in funding the purchase of multifamily
properties is to utilize its line of credit and to subsequently repay the line
of credit from the issuance of additional equity or debt securities.  Continuing
to employ this strategy, during 1996 the Company and/or the Operating
Partnership:  (i) issued a total of approximately 14.4 million Common Shares
through various offerings and received total net proceeds of $483 million, (ii)
completed the offering of the Series C Preferred Shares and received net
proceeds of $111.4 million, (iii) issued the 2026 Notes and received net
proceeds of $149 million and (iv) refinanced certain of its tax-exempt bonds in
two separate transactions for a total of $112.2 million of net proceeds.  All of
these proceeds have been or will be utilized to purchase additional properties
and/or repay the line of credit and mortgage indebtedness on certain properties.

   With respect to Property acquisitions during the year, the Company purchased
49 Properties containing 15,665 units for a total acquisition cost of $778.2
million, which included the assumption of $142.2 million of mortgage
indebtedness, the forgiveness of debt of $2.7 million and the issuance of OP
Units having a value of approximately $0.4 million. These


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

acquisitions were primarily funded from amounts drawn on the Company's line of
credit and a portion of the proceeds received in connection with the
transactions mentioned in the previous paragraph.

   During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company also disposed of five
properties which generated net proceeds of approximately $40 million. Proceeds
from four of the dispositions were ultimately applied to purchase additional
Properties and the remaining proceeds have been set aside for future property
acquisitions.

   As of December 31, 1996, the Company had total indebtedness of approximately
$1.3 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $755.4 million, of which
$274 million represented tax exempt bond indebtedness, and unsecured debt of
$498.8 million (net of a $1.2 million discount). During the year, the Company
repaid an aggregate of $57 million of mortgage indebtedness on eight of its
Properties. These repayments were funded from the Company's line of credit or
from proceeds received from the various capital transactions mentioned in
previous paragraphs. The Company has, from time to time, entered into interest
rate protection agreements, financial instruments, to reduce the potential
impact of increases in interest rates but has limited exposure to the extent of
non-performance by the counterparties of each protection agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance. No such financial instrument has been used for
trading purposes. On February 12, 1996, the Company entered into two interest
rate protection agreements that will hedge the Company's interest rate risk at
maturity of $175 million of indebtedness. The first agreement hedged the
interest rate risk of $50 million of mortgage loans scheduled to mature in
September 1997 by locking the five year Treasury Rate, commencing October 1,
1997. The second agreement hedged the interest rate risk of the Operating
Partnership's 1999 Notes by locking the effective four year Treasury Rate
commencing May 15, 1999. There was no current cost to the Company for entering
into these agreements.

   The Company has a policy of capitalizing expenditures made for new assets,
including newly acquired properties and the costs associated with placing these
assets into service.  Expenditures for improvements and renovations that
significantly enhance the value of existing assets or substantially extend the
useful life of an asset are also capitalized.  Capital spent for replacement-
type items such as appliances, draperies, carpeting and floor coverings,
mechanical equipment and certain furniture and fixtures is also capitalized.
Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as
incurred.  With respect to acquired properties, the Company has determined that
it generally spends $1,000 per unit during its first three years of ownership to
fully improve and enhance these properties to meet the Company's standards.  In
regard to replacement-type items described above, the Company generally expects
to spend $300 per unit on an annual recurring basis.

   During the year ended December 31, 1996, total capital expenditures for the
Company approximated $45.9 million.  Of this amount, approximately $10.6 million
related to capital 


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

improvements and major repairs for certain of the 1994, 1995 and 1996 Acquired
Properties. Capital improvements and major repairs for all of the Company's pre-
IPO properties and certain Acquired Properties approximated $13.8 million, or
$232 per unit. Capital spent for replacement-type items approximated $16.3
million, or $276 per unit, which is in line with the Company's expected annual
recurring per unit cost. In regard to capital spent for upgrades at certain
properties and tenant improvements with respect to the retail and commercial
office space at one Property, the amount was approximately $2.9 million. Also
included in total capital expenditures was approximately $2.3 million expended
for non-real estate additions such as computer software, computer equipment,
furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company's ROCs and its
corporate headquarters. Such capital expenditures were primarily funded from
working capital reserves and from net cash provided by operating activities.
Total capital expenditures for 1997 are budgeted to be approximately $48
million.

   Minority Interests as of December 31, 1996 decreased by $18.3 million when
compared to December 31, 1995.  The primary factors that impacted this account
during the year were distributions declared to Minority Interests, which
amounted to $20.5 million for the year, the allocation of its income from
operations in the amount of $14.3 million, the conversion of OP Units into
Common Shares and issuances of Common Shares during the year.

   Total distributions paid in 1996 amounted to $142.3 million, which included
the distribution declared in the fourth quarter of 1995. The fourth quarter of
1996 distributions were paid on January 10, 1997 and approximated $45.9 million.
On February 25, 1997, the Company declared a $0.625 distribution per Common
Share, $0.585938 per Series A Preferred Share, $0.570313 per Series B Depositary
Share and $0.570313 per Series C Depositary Share payable to shareholders of
record on March 28, 1997. The Common Share distributions will be paid on April
11, 1997 and the Preferred and Depositary Share distributions will be paid on
April 15, 1997.

   In January 1997 the Company announced its planned Merger with Wellsford and,
upon shareholder approval by both companies, anticipates the consummation of
such Merger on or around June 1, 1997. In connection with the Merger, the
Company may have to fund up to $67 million to cover certain transaction and
termination costs, repay Wellsford's line of credit balance and fund an
investment in a company to be spun off from Wellsford.

   Subsequent to December 31, 1996, the Company acquired eight additional
properties representing 2,575 units for a total purchase price of approximately
$144.2 million, including the assumption of approximately $50.8 million of
mortgage indebtedness.  These acquisitions were funded from proceeds of the
December 1996 Common Share Offering.  The Company is actively seeking to acquire
additional multifamily properties with physical and market characteristics
similar to the Properties. During the remainder of 1997, the Company expects to
acquire between 10,000 to 15,000 multifamily units, in addition to the Merger
mentioned above. However, there is no assurance that this level of property
acquisitions can be achieved since the


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

Company is dependent on the capital markets in order to issue additional equity
and debt securities to permanently finance such acquisitions.

   In March 1997, the Company received proceeds of $43.2 million from the March 
1997 Common Share Offerings. These proceeds will be utilized to purchase 
additional properties and/or repay mortgage indebtedness on certain properties.

   The Company anticipates that it may sell certain Properties in the portfolio
and may sell up to 2,500 multifamily units during 1997. However, there is no
assurance that this level of property dispositions may be achieved.

   The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements generally
through its working capital and net cash provided by operating activities.  The
Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to
meet operating requirements and payments of distributions.  The Company also
expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled mortgage
debt maturities, reduction of outstanding amounts under its line of credit,
property acquisitions and capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured
notes and equity securities including additional OP Units as well as from
undistributed FFO and proceeds received from the disposition of certain
Properties.  In addition, the Company has certain uncollateralized Properties
available for additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public
capital markets are unavailable to the Company or the cost of alternative
sources of capital to the Company is too high.

   In November 1996, the Company reached an agreement with Morgan Guaranty and
Bank of America to provide the Company with a new credit facility with potential
borrowings of up to $250 million. This new line of credit matures in November
1999 and will continue to be used for property acquisitions and for any working
capital needs. As of March 20, 1997, no amounts were outstanding under this
facility.

   As of January 1, 1995, the Company had approximately $20 million of cash and
cash equivalents and $88 million available on its line of credit.  After taking
into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs, the
Company's cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 1995 was
approximately $13.4 million and the amounts available on the Company's line of
credit were $158 million. In addition, the Company had $15 million of proceeds
from various property sales included in deposits-restricted. The following
discussion also explains the changes in net cash provided by operating
activities, net cash (used for) investing activities and net cash provided by
financing activities, all of which are presented in the Company's Statements of
Cash Flows.
 
   The Company completed its Second Public Debt Offering in April 1995 and
received net proceeds of approximately $123.1 million, substantially all of
which were applied to repay a portion of the outstanding balance on the
Company's line of credit. In May 1995, the Company completed its offering of the
Series A Preferred Shares and received net proceeds of approximately $148.2
million. Of these proceeds, $95 million were applied to repay the remaining
outstanding balance on the Company's line of credit. The remaining proceeds were
subsequently used to purchase additional Properties and pay off scheduled debt
maturities. In


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

November 1995, the Company completed its offering of the Series B Depositary
Shares and received net proceeds of approximately $121.1 million, all of which
were once again applied to repay a portion of the outstanding balance on the
Company's line of credit.

   With respect to property acquisitions during 1995, the Company purchased 17
Properties containing 5,035 units for a total of $263.8 million, which included
the assumption of $23.6 million of mortgage indebtedness and the issuance of OP
Units having a value of approximately $17.8 million.  The Company also made an
$89 million investment in partnership interests and subordinated mortgages
collateralized by 21 properties containing 3,896 units.  These acquisitions were
primarily funded from amounts drawn on the Company's line of credit and a
portion of the proceeds received in connection with the Series A Preferred
Shares as mentioned in the previous paragraph.

   During 1995, the Company disposed of six properties which generated net
proceeds of $46.4 million and reduced mortgage indebtedness by $20.5 million. As
of December 31, 1995, approximately $15 million of such proceeds were included
in the Company's balance sheet in its deposits-restricted account.
 
   As of December 31, 1995, the Company had total indebtedness of approximately
$1 billion, which included conventional mortgages of $399.2 million, unsecured
debt of $348.5 million (net of a $1.5 million discount), tax exempt bond
indebtedness of $162.5 million and $92 million outstanding on the Company's line
of credit. During the year, the Company repaid mortgage indebtedness on seven of
its Properties, which aggregated $45.5 million. These repayments were funded
from the Company's line of credit or from proceeds received from the various
capital transactions mentioned in previous paragraphs.

   During the year ended December 31, 1995, total capital expenditures for the
Company approximated $49.8 million.  Of this amount, approximately $14.2
million, or $256 per unit, related to capital improvements and major repairs for
the Acquired Properties.  Capital improvements and major repairs for all of the
Company's pre-IPO Properties approximated $13.7 million, or $247 per unit.
Capital spent for replacement-type items approximated $16.4 million, or $296 per
unit, which is in line with the Company's expected annual recurring per unit
cost.  In regard to capital spent for upgrades at certain properties and tenant
improvements with respect to the retail and commercial office space at one
Property, the amount was approximately $5.5 million.  Also included in total
capital expenditures was approximately $3.7 million expended for non-real estate
additions such as computer software, computer equipment and furniture and
fixtures for the Company's regional operation centers and its corporate
headquarters.  Such capital expenditures were primarily funded from working
capital reserves and from net cash provided by operating activities.

   Minority Interests as of December 31, 1995 decreased by $8.5 million when
compared to December 31, 1994.  The primary factors that impacted this account
during the year were 


 
                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $18.8 million
for the year, the allocation of its income from operations in the amount of
$15.6 million and the conversion of OP Units into Common Shares.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

   Commencing in 1996, the Company implemented the new definition of FFO adopted
by the Board of Governors of NAREIT in March 1995. The new definition primarily
eliminates the amortization of deferring financing costs and depreciation of 
non-real estate assets as items added back to net income when calculating FFO.

   The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the performance of
real estate companies including an equity REIT. The resolution adopted by the
Board of Governors of NAREIT defines FFO as net income (loss) (computed in
accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and
sales of property, plus depreciation on real estate assets, and after
adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on
the same basis. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a
measure of the performance of an equity REIT because, along with cash flows from
operating activities, financing activities and investing activities it provides
investors an understanding of the ability of the Company to incur and service
debt and to make capital expenditures. FFO in and of itself does not represent
cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore
should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of the
Company's performance or to net cash flows from operating activities as
determined by GAAP as a measure of liquidity and is not necessarily indicative
of cash available to fund cash needs. The Company's calculation of FFO
represents net income available to Common Shares, excluding gains on
dispositions of properties, gains on early extinguishment of debt, and write-off
of unamortized costs on refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real estate
assets, income allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of deferred
financing costs related to the Predecessor Business. The Company's calculation
of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other
REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs.

For the year ended December 31, 1996, FFO increased $39.3 million representing a
32.5% increase when compared to the year ended December 31, 1995.  For the year
ended December 31, 1995, FFO, based on the Company's calculation of FFO,
increased by $37.1 million representing a 44.2% increase when compared to the
year ended December 31, 1994.


 
                                    PART II

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this
Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   On March 7, 1996, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, as amended,
reporting the dismissal of Grant Thornton L.L.P. as its independent public
accountants that is incorporated herein by reference.


 
                                   PART III

ITEM 10.   TRUSTEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
  (a,b,c,d,e & f) TRUSTEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                  -------------------------------

  The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the 
trustees and executive officers of the Company as of March 1, 1997:



  Samuel Zell.  Mr. Zell has been Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the
Company since March 1993.  Mr. Zell is chairman of the board of directors of
Equity Group Investments, Inc., an owner, manager and financier of real estate
and corporations ("EGI"), American Classic Voyages Co., an owner and operator of
cruise lines ("American Classic"), and Anixter International Inc., a provider of
integrated network and cabling systems ("Anixter").  Mr. Zell is chairman of the
board and chief executive officer of both Capsure Holdings Corp., a holding
company whose principal subsidiaries are specialty property and casualty
insurers ("Capsure") and Manufactured Home Communities, Inc., a REIT
specializing in ownership and management of manufactured home communities
("MHC"). He is co-chairman of the board of directors of Revco D.S., Inc., a
drugstore chain ("Revco"), and is a director of Quality Food Centers, Inc., an
owner and operator of supermarkets, Sealy Corporation, a bedding manufacturer
("Sealy"), Ramco Energy PLC, an independent oil company based in the United
Kingdom, and TeleTech Holdings, Inc., a provider of telephone and computer based
customer care solutions. 

  Douglas Crocker II.  Mr. Crocker has been President, Chief Executive Officer
and Trustee of the Company since March 1993.  Mr. Crocker is a director of
Horizon Group, Inc., an owner, developer and operator of outlet retail
properties.  Mr. Crocker has been president and chief 


 
                                   PART III

executive officer of First Capital Financial Corporation, a sponsor of public
limited real estate partnerships ("First Capital"), since December 1992 and a
director since January 1993. He has been an executive vice president of Equity
Financial and Management Company ("EF & M"), a subsidiary of EGI, providing
strategic direction and services for EGI's real estate and corporate activities
since November 1992. From September 1992 until November 1992, Mr. Crocker was a
managing director of investment banking with Prudential Securities, an
investment banking firm. He was a director and president of Republic Savings
Bank, a national chartered savings and loan association ("Republic"), from
December 1988 to June 1992, at which time the Resolution Trust Corporation took
control of Republic.

  David J. Neithercut.  Mr. Neithercut has been Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company since February 1995.  Mr. Neithercut had
been Vice President-Financing of the Company from September 1993 until February
1995.  Mr. Neithercut was senior vice president-finance of EGI from January 1995
until February 1995.  He was vice president-finance of Equity Assets Management,
Inc., a subsidiary of EGI providing real estate ownership services ("EAM"), from
October 1990 until December 1994.

  Bruce C. Strohm.  Mr. Strohm has been Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of the Company since March 1995 and Secretary since November 1995.  Mr.
Strohm was an Assistant Secretary since March 1995 and Vice President of the
Company since its formation.  From  January 1988 until March 1995, Mr. Strohm
was a vice president of Rosenberg & Liebentritt, a law firm ("R & L"), most
recently serving as a member of the firm's management committee.

  Gregory H. Smith.  Mr. Smith has been Executive Vice President-Asset
Management of the Company since December 1994.  Mr. Smith was a senior vice
president of Strategic Realty Advisors, Inc., a real estate and advisory
company, from January 1994 until December 1994.  Mr. Smith had been employed at
VMS Realty Partners, a sponsor of public and private real estate limited
partnerships from June 1989 until December 1993, most recently serving as first
vice president.

  Gerald A. Spector.  Mr. Spector has been the Executive Vice President and
Trustee of the Company since March 1993 and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company since February 1995.  Mr. Spector was the Treasurer of the Company from
March 1993 through February 1995.  Mr. Spector had been an officer of EF&M since
January 1973, most recently serving as vice president from November 1994 through
January 1996.  Mr. Spector was executive vice president and chief operating
officer of EF&M from September 1990 through November 1994.  Mr. Spector had been
an officer of EGI since January 1988, most recently serving as vice president
from November 1994 through January 1996.  Mr. Spector was executive vice
president chief operating officer of EGI from January 1991 through January 1994.

  Frederick C. Tuomi.  Mr. Tuomi has been Executive Vice President--Property
Management of the Company since January 1994.  Mr. Tuomi had been president of
RAM Partners, Inc., a subsidiary of Post Properties, Inc., a REIT, from March
1991 until January 1994.  Mr. Tuomi was 


 
                                   PART III

president of Pilot Property Company, a property management company, from July
1988 until March 1991.

  Michael J. McHugh. Mr. McHugh has been Senior Vice President of the Company
since November 1994 and Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer of the Company
since February 1995.  From May 1990 to January 1995, Mr. McHugh was senior vice
president and chief financial officer of First Capital.
 
  Alan W. George  Mr. George has been Executive Vice President-Acquisitions of
the Company since February 1997, Senior Vice President - Acquisitions of the
Company from December 1995 until February 1997 and Vice President-Acquisitions
and asset manager of the Company from December 1993 to December 1995.  Mr.
George was vice president-asset management of EAM from June 1992 until December
1993.  He was vice president-asset management for American Real Estate Group, a
real estate investment company, from 1990 to 1992.
 
  John W. Alexander.  Mr. Alexander became a Trustee of the Company  in May
1993.  He has been the president of Mallard Creek Capital Partners, Inc.,
primarily an investment company with interests in real estate and development
entities, since February 1994. He has been a partner of Meringoff Equities, a
real estate investment company and is a director of Jacor Communications,  Inc.,
an owner and operator of radio stations ("Jacor").

  Henry H. Goldberg.  Mr. Goldberg has been a Trustee of the Company since
January 1995.  Mr. Goldberg is chairman of the board, chief executive officer
and founder of Artery Properties, Inc.  Founded in 1959, Artery Properties, Inc.
is a diversified real estate company.  Mr. Goldberg was the direct or indirect
general partner (or an executive thereof) of seven partnerships owning
residential apartment communities and one commercial office building, each of
which filed petitions under Federal bankruptcy laws during 1992 through 1993.
Each of the partnerships is now out of bankruptcy through a reorganization plan
agreed to by the project lender.

  Errol R. Halperin.  Mr. Halperin became a Trustee of the Company in May 1993.
Mr. Halperin has been an attorney at Rudnick and Wolfe, a law firm, since 1979,
serving as a senior partner and a member of such firm's policy committee since
1981, specializing in Federal income tax counseling and real estate and
corporate transactions.

  James D. Harper, Jr. Mr. Harper became a Trustee of the Company in May 1993.
Since 1982, Mr. Harper has been president of JDH Realty Co., a real estate
development and investment company.  Since 1988 he has been a co-managing
partner in AH Development, S.E. and AH HA Investments, S.E., special limited
partnerships formed to develop over 400 acres of land in Puerto Rico.

  Sheli Z. Rosenberg. Ms. Rosenberg has been a Trustee of the Company since
March 1993. She is a principal of the law firm of R&L. Ms. Rosenberg is chief
executive officer, president and a director of EGI. Ms. Rosenberg has been a
director of Jacor since 1994 and has been chairman of its board of directors
since February 1996. Ms. Rosenberg is a director of Capsure, Falcon


 
                                   PART III

Building Products, Inc., a manufacturer and supplier of building products
("Falcon"), American Classic, MHC, Anixter, Revco and Sealy.

  Barry S. Sternlicht. Mr. Sternlicht became a Trustee of the Company in May
1993. Mr. Sternlicht has been chief executive officer and president of Starwood
Capital Group, L.P. since 1993 and president of Starwood Capital Partners, L.P.,
a privately owned real estate investment firm, since its formation in 1991. Mr.
Sternlicht is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Starwood
Lodging Trust, a REIT specializing in the ownership of hotels and co-chairman of
the board of Westin Hotels and Resorts Company, an owner and operator of hotels.
Mr. Sternlicht is a trustee of Angeles Participating Mortgage Trust, a mortgage
REIT, U.S. Franchise Systems, a hotel franchise company and Starwood Lodging
Corporation, which manages hotels owned by Starwood Lodging Trust.

  B. Joseph White. Mr. White became a Trustee of the Company in May 1993. He has
been a professor at the University of Michigan Business School since 1987 and
has served as Dean since 1991. Mr. White is a director of Falcon, Union Pump
Company, a manufacturer of pumps, and Kelly Services, Inc., an employment
agency.

  Pursuant to the Company's declaration of trust, the trustees are divided into
three classes as nearly equal in number as possible, with each class having a
term of three years.

Business Meetings and Committees of the Board of Trustees

  Meetings: During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Board held twenty-one
meetings. Each of the present trustees attended over 75% of the total number of
meetings of the Board and of its committees which they were eligible to attend
except for Mr. Sternlicht who attended approximately 50% of the meetings. There
are three standing committees of the Board: the Executive Committee, the
Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee, which are described below.

  Executive Committee: The Executive Committee of the Board is comprised of
Messrs. Alexander, Crocker and Zell. The Executive Committee has the authority
within certain parameters to acquire, dispose of and finance investments for the
Company (including the issuance of OP Units in the Operating Partnership) and
execute contracts and agreements, including those related to the borrowing of
money by the Company, and generally exercise all other powers of the Board,
except as prohibited by law. The Executive Committee held one meeting in 1996.

  Compensation Committee: The Compensation Committee of the Board is composed of
Messrs. Halperin and Harper and Ms. Rosenberg. Mr. Harper is the chairman. The
Compensation Committee reviews and makes recommendations concerning proposals by
management with respect to compensation, bonuses, employment agreements and
other benefits and policies respecting such matters for the executive officers
of the Trust. The Compensation Committee held five meetings in 1996.

  Audit Committee: The Audit Committee of the Board is comprised of Messrs.
White, Alexander, Halperin, Sternlicht and Goldberg. Mr. White is the chairman.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations concerning the engagement of
independent public accountants, reviews the plans and results of the audit
engagement with the independent public accountants, approves professional
services provided by the independent public accountants, reviews the
independence of the independent public accountants, considers the range of audit
and non-audit fees and reviews the adequacy of the Company's internal accounting
controls. The Audit Committee held four meetings in 1996.

Compensation of Trustees

  Trustees who are not employees of the Company received an annual fee in 1996
of $20,000 for serving as trustees. Effective January 1, 1997, this annual fee
was increased to $40,000.

  In addition, trustees who serve on the Audit Committee, the Executive
Committee or the Compensation Committee receive an additional $1,000 per annum
for each committee on which they serve. Committee chairs receive an additional
$500 per annum. The Company also reimburses the trustees of each committee for
travel expenses incurred in connection with their activities on behalf of the
Company. Each trustee is also granted options to purchase 5,000 Common Shares at
the fair market value of the Company's Common Shares at the close of business on
the date of the first trustees' meeting following each annual meeting of
shareholders.

  The Company has adopted an optional deferred compensation plan for its non-
employee trustees, pursuant to which the trustees may take any percentage of
their annual trustees' compensation they desire in the form of cash, which is
placed in a Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan on a tax deferred basis and
used to purchase Common Shares under the Company's 1996 Non-Qualified Employee
Share Purchase Plan. Any distributions paid on the Common Shares are
automatically reinvested in additional Common Shares. Each trustee would be
immediately 100% vested in his/her Common Shares and would be allowed to
commence withdrawals over a 1-10 year period following termination of his/her
trusteeship. Each trustee has elected to join the deferred compensation plan in
order to take all of the trustee's fees they otherwise would have received in
cash to purchase Common Shares under the Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

  Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act") requires the Company to report, based on its review of reports
to the SEC about transactions in its Common Shares furnished to the Company and
written representations of its trustees, executive officers and 10% Common
Shareholders, that for 1996:

  Mr. Alexander filed a Form 4 late to report the sale of 2,000 Common Shares;
Mr. Goldberg filed a Form 4 late to report the redemption of 300 Preference
Units of the Operating Partnership; Mr. Halperin filed a Form 4 late to report
the acquisition of 300 Common Shares; Mr. Sternlicht filed a Form 4 late to
report the exchange of 325,000 OP Units for 325,000 Common Shares and the
distribution of such Common Shares to the beneficial owners thereof; Mr. McHugh
filed a Form 4 late to report the acquisition of 200 Common Shares and Mr.
Zell filed a Form 4 late to report the acquisition of 30,000 Common Shares by
the Samuel Zell Foundation.


 
                                   PART III

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The following tables show information with respect to the annual compensation
(including option grants) for services rendered to the Company for the fiscal
years ended December 31, 1994, December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1996 by the
chief executive officer and those persons who were, at December 31, 1996, the
other four most highly compensated executive officers of the Company.

                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE


(1) Amounts shown include cash compensation earned and received by executive
    officers as well as amounts earned but deferred at the election of these
    officers.
(2) Cash bonuses are reported in the year earned, even if paid in a subsequent
    year.
(3) Includes $24,083 amounts paid for relocation.
(4) The named executives received restricted Common Shares as one-half of their
    annual bonuses, which Common Shares vest upon completion of two years of
    continuous employment following the date of grant. The dollar amount shown
    equals the number of restricted Common Shares granted multiplied by the fair
    market value of the Common Shares on the grant date (i.e., 1996-$41.50; 
    1995-$29.75 and 1994-$30.12). This valuation does not take into account the
    diminution in value attributable to the restrictions applicable to the
    Common Shares. Distributions are paid on all restricted Common Shares at the
    same rate as on unrestricted Common Shares. The total number of restricted
    Common Shares awarded each named executed officer in January 1997 based on
    their


 
                                   PART III

    performance for the 1996 year is as follows: Douglas Crocker-7,831; Gerald
    A. Spector-4,819; Frederick C. Tuomi-1,506; David J. Neithercut-1,686; and
    Gregory H. Smith-1,506. The total number of restricted Common Shares awarded
    each named executed officer in January 1996 based on their performance for
    the 1995 year is as follows: Douglas Crocker-6,722; Gerald A. Spector-3,361;
    Frederick C. Tuomi-1,344; David J. Neithercut 1,512; and Gregory H. Smith-
    1,042. The total value of the restricted Common Shares as of December 31,
    1996 is $277,282.50, $138,641.25, $55,440.00, $62,370.00 and $42,982.50,
    respectively. Messrs. Crocker and Tuomi received 3,319 and 1,261 restricted
    Common Shares in December 1994 for services rendered during the 1994
    calendar year. In December 1996, the restrictions on these Common Shares
    lapsed.
(5) Securities underlying options are reported in the year granted.
(6) Includes employer matching and profit-sharing contributions to the Company's
    401(k) Advantage Retirement Savings Plan.
(7) As Mr. Neithercut became employed by the Company on February 28, 1995, the
    salary shown for 1995 reflects the salary paid to him between February 28,
    1995 and December 31, 1995.  Mr. Neithercut's annualized salary in 1995 was
    $200,000.

                      OPTIONS GRANTED IN LAST FISCAL YEAR


(1)  The dollar amounts under these columns are the result of calculations
     projected as of the year 2006, assuming the 5% and 10% rates of compounded
     annual appreciation set by SEC, and are not intended to forecast possible
     future appreciation, if any, of the Company's Common Share price. No gain
     to the optionee is possible without an increase in Common Share price,
     which would benefit all shareholders commensurately.
(2)  All options are granted at the fair market value of the Common Shares at
     the date of grant.  Options granted are for a term of not more than ten
     years from the date of grant and vest in equal amounts over three years,
     with the exception of the 5,000 options granted annually to each trustee,
     which vest 1,667 shares six months after the grant date, 1,667 shares one
     year after the grant date and 1,666 shares two years after the grant date.
(3)  A 5% per year compounded appreciation in Common Share price from $29.75 per
     share 


 
                                   PART III

     yields $48.46 per Common Share, from $32.75 per Common Share yields
     $53.35  per Common Share, and from $30.375 per Common Share yields $49.48
     per Common Share.
(4)  A 10% per year compounded appreciation in Common Share price from $29.75
     per Common Share yields $77.16 per Common Share, from $32.75 per Common
     Share yields $84.95 per Common Share, and from $30.375 per Common Share
     yields $78.78 per Common Share.

                AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR
                       AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES

(1)  Represents the market value of one Common Share at December 31, 1996
     ($41.25) less the exercise price of in-the-money options.
          
          
 
                      LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS - AWARDS
                              IN LAST FISCAL YEAR



 
                                   PART III

   The named executives received restricted Common Shares in 1997 as part of the
Company's performance-based restricted share plan (the "Performance-Based
Plan"), for services rendered during the 1996 fiscal year. Fifty percent of the
Common Shares to which an executive under the Performance Based Plan may be
entitled will vest on the third anniversary of the award; twenty-five percent of
the Common Shares will vest on the fourth anniversary and the remaining twenty-
five percent will vest on the fifth anniversary. However, the executive's rights
under the Common Shares will fully vest upon the employee's death, disability or
upon the change of control of the Company. Distributions will be paid on all
restricted Common Shares at the same rate as on unrestricted Common Shares
commencing on the third anniversary of the award date.

   The number of Common Shares the employee receives on the third anniversary
will be calculated based upon the following schedule:



   The Company's Average Return will be expressed as a percentage determined by
dividing (a) an amount equal to the sum of (i) the increase in the price of the
Common Shares from the date the award is made to the executive to the third
anniversary of the award, divided by three, plus (ii) the amount of the
distributions paid during such three year period divided by three, by (b) the
price of the Common Shares on the date of the award.

   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in any of the Company's
filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, that
might incorporate future filings, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in
whole or in part, the Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation
presented below and the Performance Graph following such report shall not be
incorporated by reference into any such future filings.

                         COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT
                           ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The Compensation Committee of the Board consists of the independent trustees
of the Company listed below. The Compensation Committee's functions include the
review and approval of the Company's executive compensation structure and
overall benefits program. The purpose of the Company's executive compensation
program is to establish and maintain a performance and achievement oriented
environment throughout the Company. The program emphasizes the development of
the Company so as to achieve and sustain above average growth in earnings with
excellence in management. With this emphasis in mind, the program is designed so
that executives may earn higher than average total compensation (base salary
plus bonus) for an above-average job performance. At the end of 1996, the
Company engaged the services of two independent compensation consulting firms,
Ferguson FLT and Hay Associates, to advise the Company as to the appropriate
methods and amounts of compensation for its executive officers. There are three
major components of executive compensation: base salary, bonuses and performance
based shares and share option awards granted under the Company's Second Amended
and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan (the "Award Plan"). Each of
these components is further discussed below.

   Base Salary. The Company's overall salary structure is reviewed annually,
using outside executive compensation surveys of the (i) real estate industry in
general and (ii) REITs in particular, to ensure that it remains competitive.
Positions are classified within the salary structure on the basis of assigned
responsibilities and on an evaluation of the latest survey information
available, as to appropriate compensation levels. Where salary information is
unavailable for a particular position, salary grade assigned is based on other
positions having similar responsibilities within the Company and in companies
with comparable revenues. Individual base salaries are reviewed at least
annually. Decisions relating to salary increases are based upon guidelines
furnished by senior management. Salary increases are granted based on each
executive's performance as well as such executive's position in the applicable
salary range.

   Bonus. The objectives underlying the Company's bonus program are to: (i) more
closely link bonus awards to value added for the Company's Shareholders, and
(ii) promote a culture of performance and ownership among the Company's
managers. During 1996, the target bonuses were 100% for Messrs. Crocker and
Spector and 50% for all other Executive Vice Presidents. A bonus is typically
paid in excess of target levels only when Company performance for the year is at
the upper level within its peer group. Executive officers' mid-term incentives
are accomplished by tying the executive officers' performance to the continued
performance of the Company. The Company accomplishes this by awarding the Chief
Executive Officer and each other executive officer some or all of his or her
bonus, as determined by the Compensation Committee, in restricted Common Shares
or Common Share equivalents, which shares vest two years from the date of grant.
The Compensation Committee believes that having its executive officers "invest"
a portion of their bonuses in Common Shares or Common Share equivalents
facilitates better alignment of the executive officer's compensation with the
performance of the Company's Common Shares.

   The long-term incentives for executive officers are in the form of
performance-based restricted shares and share option grants.

   Performance Based Restricted Share Plan. The Performance Based Plan is
designed to focus the Company's key employees eligible under this plan on
achieving a high level of total return (i.e., share appreciation and
distributions) to the Company's shareholders, and to encourage such key
employees to continue their employment with the Company. Under this plan, awards
will be made to the President and Chief Executive Officer and to all Executive
Vice Presidents on an annual basis by setting a target number of Common Shares
for each executive. The employee will be eligible to receive from fifty percent
(50%) to two-hundred twenty-five percent (225%) of the target number of Common
Shares, or not receive any Common Shares at all, based on the Company's Average
Return (as heretofore described), received by shareholders during the 3 year
period following the award. The number of Common Shares an executive will
receive will be fixed and determined and then issued (subject to the vesting
formula previously discussed) to the executive beginning on the third
anniversary of the grant of award. It is anticipated that awards will be made on
an annual basis so that by the fifth year of an award, each executive will have
vested and unvested rights in each of the previous five awards.

   Share Options. The Compensation Committee recognizes that while the bonus
program provides rewards for positive short-term and mid-term performance, the
interests of shareholders are best served by giving key employees the
opportunity to participate in the appreciation of the Company's Common Shares
through the granting of share options. The Compensation Committee believes that,
over an extended period of time, share performance will, to a meaningful extent,
reflect executive performance and that such arrangements further reinforce
management goals and incentives to achieve shareholder objectives. The Share
Options vest over a period of three years at a rate of 33 1/3% of such grant
each year, thereby encouraging the retention of key employees who receive
awards. The amount of Share Options awarded each executive was determined
utilizing the aforementioned executive compensation surveys and an assessment of
the executive officer's achieved performance goals and objectives.

   Deferred Compensation Agreements. To encourage Mr. Crocker and Mr. Spector to
remain in the employ of the Company, the Board has entered into Deferred
Compensation Agreements with Mr. Crocker and Mr. Spector. Mr. Crocker's Deferred
Compensation Agreement, entered into in 1996, provides Mr. Crocker with a salary
benefit after his termination of employment with the Company. If Mr. Crocker's
employment is terminated without cause, he would be entitled to annual deferred
compensation for a 10-year period commencing on the termination date in an
amount equal to his average annual base compensation (before bonus) for the
prior five calendar years, multiplied by a percentage equal to 10% per each year
since December 31, 1995. In the event Mr. Crocker's employment is terminated as
a result of his death, permanent disability or incapacity, he would be entitled
to a similar amount except that the annual percentage would be 15% and the
maximum amount paid per year would not exceed 100% of his average base salary.
Should Mr. Crocker be terminated for cause or should he choose to leave
voluntarily without good reason, he would not be entitled to any deferred
compensation.

   Mr. Spector's Deferred Compensation Agreement, entered into in 1997, provides
Mr. Spector with a salary benefit after his termination of employment with the
Company. If Mr. Spector's employment is terminated without cause, he would be
entitled to annual deferred compensation for a 15-year period commencing on the
termination date in an amount equal to 75% of his average annual base
compensation (before bonus) for the prior five calendar years, multiplied by a
percentage equal to 6.67% per each year since December 31, 1996. In the event
Mr. Spector's employment is terminated as a result of his death, permanent
disability or incapacity, he would be entitled to a similar amount except that
the annual percentage would be 10% and the maximum amount paid per year would
not exceed 75% of his average base salary. Should Mr. Spector be terminated for
cause or should he choose to leave voluntarily without good reason, he would not
be entitled to any deferred compensation.

   In January 1996, Mr. Crocker was issued options to purchase 100,000 Common
Shares, which options vest over a 3-year period and are effective for 10 years.
The Board also approved a Share Distributions Agreement with respect to such
options for Mr. Crocker in 1996. Pursuant to the terms of the Share Distribution
Agreement, upon the exercise of any of these options, Mr. Crocker would be
entitled to in a cash payment in an amount equal to the total amount of Common
Share distributions that would have been paid on said Common Shares being
exercised had he owned said Common Shares for the period from January 18, 1996
until the date of the exercise of the options in question. This agreement is not
affected by Mr. Crocker's death or termination of employment with the Company.

   Based on the executive compensation surveys and the Company's financial
performance in 1996, the Compensation Committee believes that the salary, bonus,
performance shares and option grants of Mr. Crocker, the Chief Executive Officer
and President of the Company, are fair and competitive and that the Company's
overall executive compensation ranks in the upper quartile among the general
real estate industry and among REITs. This ranking correlates with the excellent
financial performance of the Company in 1996 when compared against that of other
REITs. The Company accomplished its main goals in 1996 by increasing its net
income and funds from operations per Common Share, strengthening its balance
sheet and diversifying its portfolio across the United States, which provides
stability in cash flows and insulation against regional economic downturns.
During Mr. Crocker's tenure as Chief Executive Officer and President, the
Company has become the largest REIT owner and operator of apartment properties
and has the largest market capitalization of all multifamily REITs and second
largest market capitalization among all REITs. The key performance measure the
Compensation Committee used to determine Mr. Crocker's 1996 compensation was
that the Company's financial performance in 1996 was in the top quartile in
almost every financial category as compared to other REITs, due in large part to
Mr. Crocker's leadership, foresight and experience. The Compensation Committee
noted the following factors in support of its conclusion:

 .  A 13% increase in funds from operations per Common Share over 1995;
 .  Excellent "same store" operating results with a 7.5% increase in net
   operating income;
 .  Distributions per Common Share of $2.40, a 9.9% increase over 1995;
 .  Continued superior return to the Company's shareholders as the price of the
   Company's Common Shares appreciated 35% during 1996;
 .  Successful equity and debt offerings in 1996 of $754 million;
 .  Total market capitalization of $4.2 billion, an increase of 51% over 1995;
   and
 .  Acquisition of 48 properties in 1996, consisting of 15,297 units representing
   a $754 million investment.

   Based on the Company's excellent corporate performance in 1996, the
Compensation Committee believes that the compensation program properly rewards
its executive officers for achieving improvements in the Company's performance
and serving the interest of its shareholders.

   Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"),
generally disallows a Federal income tax deduction for compensation in excess of
$1 million paid in any year to any of the Company's executive officers listed in
the Summary Compensation Table who are employed by the Company on the last day
of a taxable year. Section 162(m), however, does allow a deduction for payments
of "performance based" compensation, the material terms of which have been
approved by shareholders. Awards under the Company's Award Plan may, but need
not, satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m). The Company believes that
because it qualifies as a REIT under the Code and therefore is not subject to
Federal income taxes, the payment of compensation that does not satisfy the
requirements of Section 162(m) will not affect the Company's taxable income,
although to the extent that compensation does not qualify for deduction under
Section 162(m), a larger portion of shareholder distributions may be subject to
Federal income taxation as dividend income rather than return of capital. The
Company does not believe that Section 162(m) will materially affect the
taxability of shareholder distributions, although no assurance can be given in
this regard due to the variety of factors that affect the tax portion of
individual shareholders.

                               PERFORMANCE GRAPH

   The following Common Share price performance graph compares shareholders'
return on the Company's Common Shares since August 11, 1993, the date of
commencement of the Company's initial public offering, with the Standard and
Poors ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the index of equity REITs prepared by the
NAREIT. The Common Share price performance graph assumes an investment of $100
in each of the Company and the two indexes on August 11, 1993 and the
reinvestment of all dividends. Equity REITs are defined as those trusts which
derive more than 75% of their income from equity investments in real estate
assets. The NAREIT equity index includes all tax qualified REITs listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Common Share price performance presented for the period from August 11, 1993
through December 31, 1996 is not necessarily indicative of future results.



Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   The following table sets forth, as of March 1, 1997, information regarding
the beneficial ownership of the Company's Common Shares by each trustee of the
Company, the Company's five most highly compensated executive officers at year
end, and the trustees and named executive officers as a group.



*Less than 1%.

(1)  The amount of Common Shares beneficially owned is reported on the basis of
     regulations of the SEC governing the determination of beneficial ownership
     of securities. The percentage of Common Shares beneficially owned by a
     person assumes that all OP Units held by the person are exchanged for
     Common Shares, that none of the OP Units held by other persons are so
     exchanged, that all options exercisable within sixty days of March 1, 1997
     to acquire Common Shares held by the person are exercised and that no
     options to acquire Common Shares held by other persons are exercised.

(2)  The amounts shown in this column reflect Common Shares subject to options
     granted under the Award Plan which are currently exercisable or exercisable
     within 60 days of the date of this table.

(3)  Includes 8,200 Common Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Crocker's spouse.
     Mr. Crocker disclaims beneficial ownership of the 8,200 Common Shares. Also
     includes 175,000 Common Shares beneficially owned by MWC Partners, L.P., an
     Illinois limited partnership ("MWC"). Mr. Crocker is sole general partner
     of MWC. The sole limited partner is a trust created for the benefit of Mr.
     Crocker's wife and Mr. Crocker's children.

(4)  Includes 263,347 OP Units held by Mr. Goldberg, which are exchangeable on a
     one-for-one basis into 263,347 Common Shares; 48,078 OP Units held by Mr.
     Goldberg's spouse, which are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into
     48,078 Common Shares; and 75,714 OP Units held by GGL Investment Partners
     #1 ("GGL"), a Maryland general partnership, which are exchangeable on a 
     one-for-one basis into 75,714 Common Shares,. Mr. Goldberg is a general
     partner of GGL with a 66.67% percentage interest. Mr. Goldberg disclaims
     beneficial ownership of the interests held by his spouse and 33.33% of the
     interests held by GGL.

(5)  Includes 1,000 Common Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Halperin's spouse.
     Mr. Halperin disclaims beneficial ownership of the 1,000 shares.

(6)  Includes 1,528 OP Units which are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into
     1,528 Common Shares. Ms. Rosenberg may be deemed to control or share
     control of the power to invest such Common Shares (assuming exchange into
     Common Shares). Ms. Rosenberg is a trustee or co-trustee of certain trusts
     created for the benefit of Mr. Zell and his family and trusts created for
     the benefit of the family of Mr. Robert Lurie, a deceased partner of Mr.
     Zell. Such trusts are indirect owners of certain partnerships which own
     Common Shares and indirect partners of the Operating Partnership. Ms.
     Rosenberg disclaims beneficial ownership of all such Common Shares and OP
     Units.

(7)  Includes 33,500 Common Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Spector's spouse.
     Also includes 2,200 Common Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Spector, as
     custodian for his minor children and 1,150 Common Shares beneficially owned
     by Mr. Spector as trustee of his daughter's trust. Mr. Spector disclaims
     beneficial ownership of the 36,850 Common Shares. Also includes 1,683 OP
     Units which are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into 1,683 Common
     Shares.

(8)  Includes 1,899,996 OP Units which are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis
     into 1,899,996 Common Shares. Mr. Sternlicht may be deemed to be the
     beneficial owner of the 1,899,996 Common Shares (assuming exchange of
     1,899,996 OP Units) because Mr. Sternlicht controls or shares control of
     the power to vote and invest such Common Shares. Mr. Sternlicht disclaims
     beneficial ownership of 1,601,665 Common Shares (assuming the exchange of
     1,601,665 OP Units) because the economic benefits with respect to such
     Common Shares are attributable to other persons.

(9)  Includes 3,436,060 Common Shares (assuming exchange of 3,436,060 OP Units).
     Mr. Zell may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of these 3,436,060 Common
     Shares (assuming the exchange of 3,436,060 OP Units) because Mr. Zell
     controls or shares control of the power to vote and invest such Common
     Shares, either directly, or as the general partner of partners of the
     Operating Partnership or as a Shareholder of a corporate general partner
     which owns Common Shares. Mr. Zell disclaims beneficial ownership of
     2,191,045 Common Shares (assuming the exchange of 1,557,561 OP Units)
     because the economic benefits with respect to such Common Shares are
     attributable to other persons.

(10) Includes 2,000 Common Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Neithercut, as
     custodian for his minor children. Mr. Neithercut disclaims beneficial
     ownership of the 2,000 Common Shares.

                 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS

   The following table sets forth information as of March 1, 1997 (except as
otherwise noted), with respect to persons who are known by the Company to be the
beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Company's outstanding Common Shares.




(1) The amount of Common Shares beneficially owned is reported on the basis of
    regulations of the SEC governing the determination of beneficial ownership
    of securities. The percentage of Common Shares beneficially owned by a
    person assumes that all OP Units held by the person are exchanged for Common
    Shares, that none of the OP Units held by other persons are so exchanged,
    that all options exercisable within sixty days of March 1, 1997 to acquire
    Common Shares held by the person are exercised and that no options to
    acquire Common Shares held by other persons are exercised.

(2) Pursuant to a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, as of December 31, 1996, FMR
    Corp. ("FMR") may have direct or indirect voting and/or investment
    discretion over these Common Shares which are held for the benefit of its
    clients by its separate accounts, externally managed accounts, registered
    investment companies, subsidiaries and/or other affiliates. FMR is
    reporting the combined holdings of the entities for the purpose of
    administrative convenience.

(3) Includes 3,436,060 OP Units which are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis
    into 3,436,060 Common Shares.  Also included are options to purchase 148,334
    Common Shares which are currently exercisable or exercisable within sixty
    days and beneficially owned by Mr. Zell. Also includes 30,000 Common Shares
    beneficially owned by the Samuel Zell Foundation. Mr. Zell disclaims
    beneficial ownership of 2,191,045 Common Shares (assuming the exchange of
    1,557,561 Units) because the economic benefits with respect to such Common
    Shares are attributable to other persons.  Ms. Lurie disclaims beneficial
    ownership of 2,518,600 Common Shares (assuming the exchange of 1,878,499 OP
    Units).

(4) Pursuant to a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, as of December 31, 1996, The
    Prudential Insurance Company of America ("Prudential") may have direct or
    indirect voting and/or investment discretion over these Common Shares which
    are held for the benefit of its clients by its separate accounts, externally
    managed accounts, registered investment companies, subsidiaries and/or other
    affiliates.  Prudential is reporting the combined holdings of the entities
    for the purpose of administrative convenience.

(5) Pursuant to a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC for February 14, 1997, Merrill
    Lynch and Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") may have direct or indirect voting
    and/or investment discretion over these Common Shares which are held for the
    benefit of its clients by its separate accounts, externally managed
    accounts, registered investment companies, subsidiaries and/or other
    affiliates. Merrill Lynch is reporting the combined holdings of the
    entities for the purpose of administrative convenience.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

    (a) Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement for the Operating
Partnership, the Operating Partnership is required to reimburse the Company for
all expenses incurred by the Company in excess of income earned by the Company
through its indirect 1% ownership of various Financing Partnerships. Amounts
paid on behalf of the Company are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations as general and administrative expenses.

    During 1996, certain related entities provided services to the Operating
Partnership and the Company. These included, but were not limited to, Rosenberg
& Liebentritt, P.C., which provided legal services; Greenberg & Pociask, Ltd.,
which provided tax and accounting services; and First Capital Financial
Corporation, which provided accounting services. Fees paid to Rosenberg &
Liebentritt, P.C., of which Ms. Rosenberg has been chairman of the board since
March 1995 and was president from 1980 until March 1995, amounted to
approximately $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1996. Fees paid to
the other affiliates mentioned above amounted in the aggregate to approximately
$4,400 for the year ended December 31, 1996. In addition, The Riverside Agency,
Inc., which provided insurance brokerage services, was paid fees and reimbursed
premiums and loss claims in the amount of $4.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996. As of December 31, 1996, no amounts were owed to The
Riverside Agency, Inc. As of December 31, 1996, $315,700 was owed to Rosenberg &
Liebentritt, P.C. for legal fees incurred in connection with property
acquisitions and securities matters.

    Equity Group Investments, Inc. ("EGI") and certain of its subsidiaries,
including EAM, Eagle Flight Services, Equity Properties & Development, L.P. and
EPMC have provided certain services to the Operating Partnership and the Company
which include, but are not limited to, investor relations, corporate
secretarial, computer and support services, real estate tax evaluation services,
financial services, telecommunication services, information systems services and
property development services. Fees paid to EGI for these services amounted to
$1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1996. Amounts due to EGI were
approximately $0.3 million as of December 31, 1996.

    Artery Property Management, Inc. ("Artery") provided consulting services
with regard to property acquisitions and additional business opportunities and
was paid approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1996.

    During 1995, the Operating Partnership engaged Rudnick & Wolfe, a law firm
in which Mr. Halperin is a partner, to perform legal services. Fees paid to this
firm amounted to approximately $4,300 for the year ended December 31, 1996.

    Management Corp. has lease agreements with affiliated parties covering
office space occupied by regional operation centers located in Chicago, Illinois
("Midwest ROC") and Tampa, Florida ("Southeast ROC") and the corporate
headquarters located in Chicago, Illinois. In connection with these affiliated
lease agreements, Management Corp. paid Equity Office Holdings, L.L.C. ("EOH")
$118,919 in connection with the Midwest ROC, $137,638 in connection with the
Southeast ROC and $409,392 in connection with the space occupied by the
corporate headquarters for the year ended December 31, 1996. As of December 31,
1996, $46,435 was owed to EOH.

    In addition, the Operating Partnership and the Company have provided
acquisitions, asset and property management services to certain related entities
for properties not owned by the Company. Fees received for providing such
services were approximately $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1996.

    Mr. Goldberg is a two-thirds owner and chairman of the board of directors of
Artery Property Management, Inc. ("APMI"), a real estate property management
company. In connection with the acquisition of certain properties from Mr.
Goldberg and his affiliates during 1995, the Operating Partnership made a loan
of $15,212,000 evidenced by two notes and secured by 465,545 OP Units. Mr.
Goldberg estimates that his interest in this transaction equaled $26,000,000.
The largest aggregate amount of indebtedness outstanding under the loan at any
time during 1996 and the amount outstanding as of December 31, 1996 was
$15,212,000. The first note issued in the amount of $1,056,000 accrues interest
at the prime rate plus 3-1/2% per annum. The second note issued in the amount of
$14,156,000 bears interest equal to approximately $300,000 per year plus the
amount of distributions payable on 433,230 of the OP Units pledged as collateral
for this loan.

    Mr. Tuomi borrowed $100,000 from the Company in 1994 related to his purchase
of a home in the Chicago area. The loan bears interest at 30-day LIBOR plus 2%
with interest due quarterly. The largest principal amount owed in 1996 was
$90,000 and the principal balance at December 31, 1996 was $72,000. The loan is
payable in equal principal installments of $18,000 over five years.

    Mr. Tuomi borrowed $40,000 from the Company in 1996 related to the payment
of a tax liability incurred when the restrictions relating to 1,261 Common
Shares lapsed on December 16, 1996. The loan carried interest at the rate of 8-
1/2% with the outstanding principal balance, together with any accrued and
unpaid interest due on the earlier of March 31, 1997 or the sale of Mr. Tuomi's
1,261 Common Shares. The largest principal amount owed in 1996 was $40,000 and
the principal balance at December 31, 1996 was $40,000. Payment was secured by a
pledge of Mr. Tuomi's 1,261 Common Shares. The loan was paid in full on March 5,
1997.

    Mr. Crocker borrowed $78,000 from the Company in December 1995. The loan
bears interest at 30 day LIBOR plus 2%. The largest principal amount owed in
1996 was $78,000 and the principal balance at December 31, 1996 was $78,000.
Interest is due monthly with the outstanding balance due on March 31, 1997.
Payment was secured by a pledge of Mr. Crocker's restricted share awards issued
in January 1996. The loan was paid in full on March 3, 1997.

    Mr. Crocker borrowed $140,000 from the Company in April 1996 related to the
payment of a tax liability incurred. The loan bears interest at 30-day LIBOR
plus 2%. The largest principal amount owed in 1996 was $140,000 and the
principal balance at December 31, 1996 was $140,000. Interest is due monthly
with the outstanding balance due on March 1, 1998. Payment was secured by a
pledge of Mr. Crocker's restricted share awards issued in January 1996.

    Mr. Crocker borrowed $564,000 from the Company during 1996. The loan bears
interest at monthly LIBOR plus 2% with interest due quarterly. The largest
principal amount owed in 1996 was $564,000 and the principal balance at December
31, 1996 was $564,000. Payment is secured by a pledge of Mr. Crocker's Common
Shares. Payments of principal shall be payable annually in the amount of $80,580
on March 15, 1997 and in the amounts $80,570 on March 15th of each of the next
six succeeding years. A payment in the amount of $80,580 was received in
February 1997 and the principal balance now is $483,420.

    The executive officers listed below are indebted to the Company as a result
of purchasing Common Shares from the Company in June 1994. The loans accrue
interest, payable quarterly in arrears, at the applicable federal rate, as
defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, in effect at the date
of each loan. The loans are due and payable on the first to occur of the date in
which the individual leaves the Company, other than by reason of death or
disability, or the respective loan's due date. The loans are with recourse to
the respective individuals and are collateralized by a pledge of the Common
Shares purchased. All dividends paid on pledged Common Shares in excess of the
then marginal tax rate on the taxable portion of such dividends are used to pay
interest and principal on the loans.



    Rosenberg and Liebentritt, P.C. provides legal services to the Operating
Partnership and the Company. Sheli Z., Rosenberg, a Trustee of the Company, is a
principal of this firm. The Operating Partnership has also engaged Seyfarth,
Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson, a law firm in which Ms. Rosenberg's husband is a
partner, to provide legal services from time to time relating to employee
benefit issues.


 
  ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a)
  (1 & 2) See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 of this
Form 10-K.
 
(3) Exhibits:
 
2.1*         Property Contribution Agreement (Zell Properties and EPMC)
2.2*         Property Contribution Agreement (Starwood Properties)
3.1*         Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Equity Residential
             Properties Trust, dated August 10, 1993
3.1A+        Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Equity Residential
             Properties Trust dated February 3, 1995
3.2*         Bylaws of Equity Residential Properties Trust
4.1****      Indenture, dated as of May 16, 1994, by and among the Operating
             Partnership, as obligor, the Company, as guarantor and The First
             National Bank of Chicago, as trustee in connection with 81/2%
             senior notes due May 15, 199 9     
4.2****      Indenture, dated October 1, 1994, between the Operating
             Partnership, as obligor and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
             trustee in connection with up to $500 million of debt securities
4.3 ++       Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement Beauchamp
10.1*        Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP Operating Limited 
             Partnership
10.1A*       Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP
             Operating Limited Partnership
10.1B****    Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP
             Operating Limited Partnership
10.1C*****   Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP
             Operating Limited Partnership
10.2*        Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential Properties
             Management Limited Partnership
10.3+        Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential Properties
             Management Limited Partnership II
10.4*        Noncompetition Agreement (Zell)
10.5*        Noncompetition Agreement (Crocker)
10.6*        Noncompetition Agreement (Spector)
10.7*        Form of Noncompetition Agreement (other officers)
10.8*        Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement with the Company (Zell)
10.9*        Registration Rights and Lock-Up Agreement with the Company
             (Starwood)
10.10***     Form of Registration Rights Agreement with purchasers in the
             Private Equity Offering
10.11*       Services Agreement between Equity Residential Properties Trust and
             Equity Group Investments, Inc.
10.12*       Form of Property Management Agreement (REIT properties)
10.13****    Form of Property Management Agreement (Non-REIT properties)
10.14*       1993 Share Option Plan
10.14A***    Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan


 
                                    PART IV

10.15*       Form of Contribution Agreement dated as of August 11, 1993
10.16**      Revolving Credit Agreement by and among the Operating Partnership,
             the Company, NationsBank of Texas, N.A. and Wells Fargo Realty
             Advisors Funding, Incorporated
10.16A**     First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement by and among the
             Operating Partnership, the Company, Nations Bank of Texas, N.A. and
             Wells Fargo Realty Advisors Funding, Incorporated
10.17**      Revolving Credit Agreement by and among the Operating Partnership,
             the Company, The First National Bank of Chicago and First National
             Bank Association, and First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement
10.17A**     Second Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement by and among the
             Operating Partnership, the Company, The First National Bank of
             Chicago, First National Bank Association and the First National
             Bank of Boston
10.18****    Credit Agreement by and among the Operating Partnership, as
             borrower, the Company, Wells Fargo Realty Advisors Funding,
             Incorporated, as lender, Wells Fargo Realty Advisors Funding,
             Incorporated, as agent, and The First National Bank of Chicago and
             Nations Bank of Texas, N.A., as co-agents, dated November 14, 1994
10.19****    Purchase and Sale Agreement by and among Real Estate Equities Joint
             Venture as Sellers and EQR-EXL Vistas, Inc. and Executive Life
             Insurance Company in Rehabilitation/Liquidation, date August 17,
             1994.
10.20        Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 1996 among the
             Operating Partnership and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
             York, as lead agent and Bank of America Illinois, as co-lead agent
10.21        Amended and Restated Master Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of
             November 1, 1996 by and between Federal National Mortgage
             Association and EQR-Bond Partnership
12           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21           List of Subsidiaries of Equity Residential
             Properties Trust
23.1         Consent of Grant Thornton L.L.P.
23.2         Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
24.1         Power of Attorney for John Alexander dated February 24, 1997
24.2         Power of Attorney for James D. Harper, Jr. dated February 24, 1997
24.3         Power of Attorney for Errol R. Halperin dated February 24, 1997
24.4         Power of Attorney for B. Joseph White dated February 24, 1997
24.5         Power of Attorney for Barry S. Sternlicht dated February 24, 1997
24.6         Power of Attorney for Henry H. Goldberg dated February 24, 1997
 
- - -----------------------------------------
*      Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-11 Registration Statement,
       File No. 33-63158, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-11 Registration Statement,
       File No. 33-72080, and incorporated herein by reference .
***    Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-11 Registration Statement,
       File No. 33-80420, and incorporated herein by reference.
****   Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form 10/A, dated
       December 12, 1994, File No. 0-24920, and incorporated herein by 
       reference.


 
                                    PART IV

*****   Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1995, dated November 7, 1995, and
        incorporated herein by reference.

+       Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1994.


++      Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1995.


 
                                    PART IV

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

A Report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 1996, reporting information for property
acquisitions.

A Report on Form 8-K dated December 5, 1996 reporting information in connection
with the December 1996 Common Share Offerings.

A Report on Form 8-K dated December 13, 1996 reporting information in connection
with the December 1996 Common Share Offerings.

(c)  Exhibits:

    See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules:

    See Index to Financial Statements attached hereto on page F-1 of this Form
10-K.


 
                                    PART IV

                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                            EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
 

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Douglas Crocker II
      --------------                 ------------------------------------------
                                           Douglas Crocker II
                                    President, Chief Executive Officer,
                                       Trustee and *Attorney-in-Fact


Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   David J. Neithercut
      --------------                 ------------------------------------------
                                           David J. Neithercut
                                       Executive Vice-President and
                                         Chief Financial Officer
 
Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Michael J. McHugh
      --------------                 ------------------------------------------
                                           Michael J. McHugh
                                    Senior Vice-President, Chief Accounting
                                    Officer, Treasurer and *Attorney-in-fact

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Samuel Zell
      --------------                 ------------------------------------------
                                           Samuel Zell
                                      Chairman of the Board of Trustees
 
Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Gerald A. Spector
      --------------                 ------------------------------------------
                                           Gerald A. Spector
                                       Executive Vice-President, Chief
                                        Operating Officer and Trustee
 
Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Sheli Z. Rosenberg
      --------------                 ------------------------------------------
                                           Sheli Z. Rosenberg
                                              Trustee


 
                                    PART IV

                              SIGNATURES-CONTINUED
                              --------------------

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   James D. Harper
      --------------                 -------------------------------------------
                                           James D. Harper
                                             Trustee

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Errol R. Halperin
      --------------                 -------------------------------------------
                                           Errol R. Halperin
                                                Trustee

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Barry S. Sternlicht
      --------------                 -------------------------------------------
                                           Barry S. Sternlicht
                                                Trustee

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   John W. Alexander
      --------------                 -------------------------------------------
                                           John W. Alexander
                                                Trustee

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   B. Joseph White
      --------------                 -------------------------------------------
                                           B. Joseph White
                                                Trustee

Date: March 20, 1997            By:  /s/   Henry H. Goldberg
      --------------                 -------------------------------------------
                                           Henry H. Goldberg
                                                Trustee


 
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE


                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST




                                      F-1

 
                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Equity Residential Properties Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Equity
Residential Properties Trust (the "Company") as of December 31, 1996 and the
related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity
and cash flows for the year then ended.  Our audit also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a).  These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity
Residential Properties Trust at December 31, 1996, and the consolidated results
of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.



                                           ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 12, 1997
except for Note 19, as to which the date is
March 20, 1997

                                      F-2

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Trustees
Equity Residential Properties Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Equity
Residential Properties Trust (the "Company") as of December 31, 1995 and the
related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1995.
These financial statements are the responsibility of management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity Residential
Properties Trust as of December 31, 1995, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



                                                         /s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP

                                                         GRANT THORNTON LLP





Chicago, Illinois
February 14, 1996

                                      F-3

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                (Amounts in thousands except for share amounts)

 

                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-4

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

               (Amounts in thousands except for per share data)

 

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-5

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                            (Amounts in thousands)

 
                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-6

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

 

                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-7

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY

                            (Amounts in thousands)

 

                            See accompanying notes

                                      F-8

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Organization and Formation of the Company

   Equity Residential Properties Trust, formed in March 1993, and its
subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"), is a self-administered and self-
managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").  The Company has elected
to be taxed as a REIT under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), commencing with its taxable year ending December 31, 1993.
As a result, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax to
the extent it distributes 95% of its taxable income to its shareholders. REITs
are subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements.  If the
Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any year, its taxable income may be
subject to income tax at regular corporate rates (including any applicable
alternative minimum tax).  Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT,
the Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and
excise taxes on its undistributed income.

   The Company is the successor to the multifamily property business of Equity
Properties Management Corp. ("EPMC"), an entity controlled by Mr. Samuel Zell,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Company, and a series of other entities
which owned 69 of the multifamily properties contributed to the Company at the
time of the Company's initial public offering (the "Initial Properties"). Forty-
six of the Initial Properties (the "Zell Properties") were contributed or sold
by entities substantially controlled by Mr. Zell and primarily owned by Mr. Zell
and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Robert Lurie, a deceased partner of Mr. Zell.
The remaining 23 of the Initial Properties (the "Starwood Properties") were
acquired from entities controlled by Starwood Capital Partners, L.P.
("Starwood") and its affiliates ("Starwood Original Owners"). Prior to the
completion of the Company's initial public offering (the "IPO") of 13,225,000
common shares of beneficial interest, $.01 par value per share ("Common
Shares"), EPMC provided multifamily residential management services (the
"Management Business") to the Zell Properties.

   The Company is engaged in the acquisition, disposition, ownership, management
and operation of multifamily properties.  As of December 31, 1996, the Company
controlled a portfolio of 218 multifamily properties (individually a "Property"
and collectively the "Properties") containing 67,705 apartment units.  The
Company's interest in six of these Properties at the time of acquisition thereof
consisted solely of ownership of debt collateralized by such Properties.  The
Company also has an investment in partnership interests and subordinated
mortgages collateralized by 21 properties (the "Additional Properties").  The
Properties and Additional Properties are located throughout the United States in
the following 30 states:  Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida,
Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland,
Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada,
North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia and Washington.

                                      F-9

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

   In exchange for contributing 33 of the Zell Properties and the Management
Business and the Starwood Properties, the 33 existing entities (the "Zell
Original Owners"), and entities controlled by Starwood and EPMC received a total
of 8,433,238 partnership interests ("OP Units") (including an additional 93,639
OP Units issued in August 1994 and 1,835 OP Units issued in September 1995) in
ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership").  The OP Units
are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into Common Shares.  The other 13 Zell
Properties were acquired from 13 existing partnerships (the "Zell Sellers") for
$43.5 million in cash.  The Management Business, the Zell Original Owners and
the Zell Sellers are collectively the "Predecessor Business".

   The Company has formed a series of partnerships (the "Financing
Partnerships") which beneficially own certain Properties encumbered by mortgage
indebtedness.  The Operating Partnership owns a 1% limited partner interest and
a 98% general partner interest in each Financing Partnership.  The remaining 1%
general partner interest in each Financing Partnership is owned by various
qualified REIT subsidiaries wholly owned by the Company (each a "QRS
Corporation").  Rental income from the Properties that are beneficially owned by
a Financing Partnership is used first to service the applicable mortgage debt
and pay other operating expenses and any excess is then distributed 1% to the
applicable QRS Corporation, as the general partner of such Financing
Partnership, and 99% to the Operating Partnership, as the sole 1% limited
partner and as the 98% general partner.  The Company has also formed a series of
limited liability companies (the "LLCs") which own certain Properties and one
such LLC which has an investment in partnership interests and subordinated
mortgages collateralized by the Additional Properties.  The Operating
Partnership is a 99% managing member of each LLC and a QRS Corporation is a 1%
member of each LLC.

   As of December 31, 1996, all of the Properties were managed by either Equity
Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership, the successor to the
Management Business contributed by EPMC contemporaneously with the IPO or Equity
Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership II (collectively, the
"Management Partnerships").  The Management Partnerships collect a property
management fee consistent with a reasonable arms-length charge for the
performance of such services.  The sole general partner of the Management
Partnerships with a 1% interest is the Operating Partnership.  The sole limited
partners of the Management Partnerships are Equity Residential Properties
Management Corp. ("Management Corp.") and Equity Residential Properties
Management Corp. II ("Management Corp. II"), respectively, and each have a 99%
interest in the respective partnership.

                                     F-10

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

2.  Basis of Presentation

    The balance sheets as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 and the statements of
operations, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 represented the consolidated financial
information of the Company and its subsidiaries.

    Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either through
ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership, the Management Partnerships
and the Financing Partnerships and the LLCs, each such entity has been
consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes. In regard to
Management Corp. and Management Corp. II, the Company does not have legal
control; however, these entities are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes, the effects of which are immaterial. Certain reclassifications have
been made to the prior year's financial statements in order to conform with the
current year presentation.

3.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND MINORITY INTERESTS

    On January 26, 1994, the Company completed a second public offering of
5,750,000 additional Common Shares (the "Second Public Offering").  The Second
Public Offering price was $29 per Common Share resulting in gross proceeds of
$166.8 million.  Proceeds to the Company, net of underwriters' discount and
estimated offering expenses, were approximately $157.4 million.

    Between April 1994 and June 1994, the Company sold 1,569,270 unregistered
Common Shares to six accredited institutional investors (the "Private Equity
Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $47 million.

    On July 27, 1994, the Company completed a third public offering of 9,200,000
additional Common Shares (the "Third Public Offering").  The Third Public
Offering price was $31.25 per Common Share resulting in net proceeds of $271.7
million.

    In September 1994, the Company registered 5,000,000 Common Shares pursuant 
to an equity shelf registration statement (the "Equity Shelf Registration") of
which 2,735,320 registered Common Shares were sold in separate transactions
completed in October 1994 (collectively, the "Shelf Offering"). The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $81 million in connection therewith. The
prices at which the Common Shares were sold ranged from $29.34 to $30.17.

    On  September 11, 1995, the Company  filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  (the "SEC") a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register up to $500
million of its non-voting preferred shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par
value per share ("Preferred Shares"), Common Shares and depositary shares,
pursuant to a shelf offering (the "Second Shelf Registration").

    In January 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,725,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.375 per share (the "January
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million in connection therewith.

                                     F-11

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)


    Also in January 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register 1,676,423 Common Shares which may be sold by the holders
thereof or by holders of OP Units upon the issuance of Common Shares in exchange
for such OP Units.

    In February 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.50 per share (the "February
1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $67.8
million in connection therewith.

    On May 21, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.50 per share.
On May 28, 1996, the Company completed the sale of 73,287 publicly registered
Common Shares to employees of the Company and to employees of Equity Group
Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries ("EGI") and certain of their
respective affiliates and consultants at a net price equal to $30.50 per share.
On May 30, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,264,400 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of  $30.75 per share.
The Company  received net proceeds of approximately $111.3 million in connection
with the sale of the 3,637,687 Common Shares mentioned above (collectively, the
"May 1996 Common Share Offerings") .

    On June 26, 1996, the Company  filed with the SEC a Form S-3 Registration
Statement to register 608,665 Common Shares which may be issued by the Company
to holders of 608,665 OP Units.  The SEC declared this Registration effective on
September 6, 1996.

    On September 18, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 
Registration Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the "1996
Equity Shelf Registration"). The SEC declared this Registration effective on
September 23, 1996.


    In September 1996, the Company completed the sale of 2,272,728 publicly
registered Common Shares which were sold at a net price of $33 per share. The
Company received net proceeds of approximately $75 million in connection with
this offering (the "September 1996 Common Share Offering").

    On September 27, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3 
Registration Statement to register 1,182,835 Common Shares which may be issued
by the Company to holders of 1,182,835 OP Units. The SEC declared this
Registration effective on October 3, 1996.

    In November 1996, the Company issued 39,458 Common Shares pursuant to the
1996 Non-qualified Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "Employee Share Purchase
Plan") at a net price of $30.44 per share and received net proceeds of
approximately $1.2 million.

    In December 1996, the Company completed offerings of 4,440,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $41.25 per
share (the "December 1996 Common Share Offerings").  The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $177.4 million 

                                     F-12

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

in connection therewith.

   The following table presents the changes in the Company's issued and
outstanding Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
(excluding OP Units of 7,858,228, 8,208,882, and 8,431,403 outstanding at
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively):



   The declaration of trust of the Company provides that the Company may issue
up to 10,000 Preferred Shares with specific rights, preferences and other
attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include
preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders 

                                     F-13

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

of the Company's Common Shares. Under certain circumstances, the issuance of
Preferred Shares may require shareholder approval pursuant to the rules and the
regulations of the New York Stock Exchange.

    In June 1995, the Company sold 6,120,000 of its 9 3/8% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(liquidation preference $25 per share) (the "Series A Preferred Shares"),
pursuant to a $250 million shelf registration (the "Preferred Shelf
Registration"), at $25 per share.  The Company raised gross proceeds of $153
million from this offering (the "Series A Preferred Share Offering").  The net
proceeds of approximately $148.2 million from the Series A Preferred Share
Offering were contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership in
exchange for 6,120,000 of the Operating Partnership's 9 3/8% Series A cumulative
redeemable preference units.  The Series A Preferred Shares are cumulative from
the date of original issue and are payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth
day of January, April, July and October of each year, at the annual rate of
9 3/8% of the liquidation preference of $25 per share.  The Series A Preferred
Shares are not redeemable prior to June 1, 2000.  On or after June 1, 2000, the
Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company in whole
or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued and unpaid
distributions, if any, thereon.

    In November 1995, the Company sold 5,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series
B Depositary Shares") pursuant to the Preferred Shelf Registration and the
Second Shelf Registration. Each Series B Depositary Share represents a 1/10
fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share
of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series B Preferred
Shares"). The liquidation preference of each of the Series B Preferred Shares is
$250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series B Depositary Share). The Company raised
gross proceeds of $125 million from this offering (the "Series B Preferred Share
Offering"). The net proceeds of approximately $121 million from the Series B
Preferred Share Offering were contributed by the Company to the Operating
Partnership in exchange for 500,000 of the Operating Partnership's 9 1/8% Series
B cumulative redeemable preference units. The Series B Preferred Shares are
cumulative from the date of original issue and are payable quarterly on or about
the fifteenth day of January, April, July and October of each year, commencing
on January 15, 1996, at the annual rate of 9 1/8% of the liquidation preference
of $25 per Depositary Share. The Series B Preferred Shares are not redeemable
prior to October 15, 2005. On and after October 15, 2005, the Series B Preferred
Shares may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price of $250 per share (equivalent to $25 per Series B
Depositary Share), plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

    In September 1996 the Company sold 4,600,000 depositary shares (the 
"Series C Depositary Shares") pursuant to the Second Shelf Registration. Each
Series C Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8%
Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par
value per share (the "Series C Preferred Shares"). The liquidation preference of
each of the Series C Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series C
Depositary Share). The Company raised gross proceeds of $115 million from this
offering (the "Series C Preferred

                                     F-14

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

Share Offering"). The net proceeds of approximately $111.4 million from the
Series C Preferred Share Offering were contributed by the Company to the
Operating Partnership in exchange for 460,000 of the Operating Partnership's 9
1/8% Series C cumulative redeemable preference units. The Series C Preferred
Shares are cumulative from the date of original issue and are payable quarterly
on or about the fifteenth day of January, April, July and October of each year,
commencing on October 15, 1996, at the annual rate of 9 1/8% of the liquidation
preference of $25 per 1996 Depositary Share. The Series C Preferred Shares are
not redeemable prior to September 9, 2006. On and after September 9, 2006, the
Series C Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company,
in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $250 per share (equivalent to
$25 per Series C Depositary Share), plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if
any, thereon.

   In connection with the acquisition of seven of the Properties, which closed
in December, 1994, the Company, through the Operating Partnership, issued 41,213
preferred interests ("Preference Units") to certain sellers of these Properties.
The Preference Units had a stated value of $1,000 and entitled the holders
thereof to preferential distributions from the Operating Partnership (other than
liquidating distributions) before distributions to the holders of the OP Units
and the Company (provided that the Company shall be entitled to receive
distributions necessary to maintain its REIT status under U.S. tax laws).  On
March 1, 1996, the Operating Partnership exercised its option to convert all of
the remaining Preference Units into OP Units.  This conversion resulted in
1,182,835 OP Units being issued.  The Operating Partnership also made loans to
certain of these sellers in the aggregate amount of $15.2 million, which loans
are fully collateralized by 465,545 OP Units.  

   Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share offerings are contributed by the
Company to the Operating Partnership in return for an increased ownership
percentage and are treated as capital transactions in the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements.  As a result, the net offering proceeds are allocated
between shareholders' equity and the equity position of various limited partners
of the Operating Partnership (collectively, the "Minority Interests") (to the
extent represented by OP Units), to account for the change in their respective
percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.

   Assuming conversion of all OP Units, total Common Shares outstanding at
December 31, 1996 would have been 59,013,064.  As of December 31, 1996, the
Minority Interests held 7,858,228 OP Units which represented a 13.32% interest
in the Operating Partnership.

   The Company paid a $0.59, $0.59, $0.59 and $0.625  per Common Share
distribution on April 12, July 12, and October 11, 1996 and January 10, 1997,
respectively, for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31, 1996, to Common Share holders of record on March 29, June 28,
September 27 and December 27, 1996, respectively.

                                     F-15

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

   The Company also paid a $0.5859, $0.5859, $0.5859 and $0.58605 per share
distribution on April 15, July 15, October 15, 1996 and January 15, 1997,
respectively for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December
31, 1996 to Series A Preferred Share holders of record on March 29, June 28,
September 27 and December 27, 1996, respectively.  In addition, the Company paid
a $0.5703, $0.5703, $0.5703 and $0.57035 per share distribution on April 15,
July 15, October 15, 1996 and January 15, 1997, respectively for the quarters
ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 1996 to Series B 
Depositary Share holders of record on March 29, June 28, September 27 and
December 27, 1996, respectively. In addition, the Company paid $0.1394, covering
the period September 9 through September 30, 1996 and $0.5703 per share
distribution on October 15, 1996 and January 15, 1997, respectively, for the
quarters ended September 30 and December 31, 1996 to Series C Depositary Share
holders of record on September 27 and December 27, 1996, respectively.

                                     F-16

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

4. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

   (a)  Rental Property

   Rental property is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation less an
adjustment, if any, for impairment.  Rental properties intended to be held and
operated by the Company over their remaining useful life are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the particular rental property may not be recoverable.  If
these events or changes in circumstances are present, the Company estimates the
sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted) to result from the
operations and eventual disposition of the particular rental property, and if
less than the carrying amount of the rental property, the Company will recognize
an impairment loss.  Upon recognition of any impairment loss the Company
measures that loss based on the amount by which the carrying amount of the
rental property exceeds the estimated fair value of the rental property.

   For rental properties to be disposed of, an impairment loss is recognized
when the fair value of the rental property, less the estimated cost to sell, is
less than the carrying amount of the rental property measured at the time the
Company has a commitment to sell the property and/or is actively marketing the
property for sale.  Rental property to be disposed of is reported at the lower
of its carrying amount or its estimated fair value, less its cost to sell.
Depreciation is not recorded during the period in which assets are held for
disposal.  There were no Properties held for sale as of December 31, 1996.

   Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the assets.  The Company uses a 30-year estimated life for buildings, a
10-year estimated life for land improvements and up to a seven-year estimated
life for furniture, fixtures and equipment.  Expenditures for ordinary
maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred and significant
renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the useful life of the
asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life.  Initial direct leasing
costs are expensed as incurred and such expense approximates the deferral and
amortization of initial direct leasing costs over the lease terms.  Property
sales or dispositions are recorded when title transfers and sufficient
consideration has been received by the Company.  Upon disposition, the related
costs and accumulated deprecation are removed from the respective accounts.  Any
gain or loss on sale or disposition is recognized in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

   (b)  Cash and Cash Equivalents

   The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and
investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased with
a maturity of four months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash
equivalents.  The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial
institutions.  The combined account balances at each institution periodically
exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance coverage,
and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on
deposit in excess of FDIC insurance 

                                     F-17

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

coverage. The Company believes that the risk is not significant as the Company
does not anticipate their non-performance.

   (c)  Deferred Financing Costs

    Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the
Company's lines of credit, long-term financing and costs for certain interest
rate protection agreements.  These costs are amortized over the terms of the
related debt.  Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired
before the maturity date.  As of December 31, 1996 and 1995, the accumulated
amortization of such deferred financing costs was $3.8 million  and $6.4
million, respectively.
 
   (d)  Interest Rate Protection Agreements

    The Company from time to time enters into interest rate protection 
agreements to effectively convert floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, as
well as to hedge anticipated financing transactions. Net amounts paid or
received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to interest
expense when such amounts are incurred or earned. Settlement amounts paid or
received in connection with terminated interest rate protection agreements are
deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the related financing
transaction on the straight-line method. The Company believes it has limited
exposure to the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each
protection agreement since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial
institution, and the Company does not anticipate their non-performance.

   (e)  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

    The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and
cash equivalents, and mortgage notes payable, other notes payable, lines of
credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or contract
values.  With respect to the Company's investment in mortgage notes, the fair
value as of December 31, 1996 was estimated to be approximately $100 million
compared to the Company's carrying value of $86.6 million. The estimated fair
value of the Company's investment in mortgage notes represents the estimated net
present value based on the expected future property level cash flows and an
estimated current market discount rate.

   (f)  Revenue Recognition

    Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from tenants and 
is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different than on
a straight-line basis. Interest income is recorded on an accrual basis.

                                     F-18

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

   (g)  Lease Agreements

    A substantial portion of the leases entered into between the tenant and a
multifamily property for the rental of an apartment unit is month-to-month or
year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties.

   (h)  Income Taxes

    Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the
operations of the Properties and Management Business, the results of operations
contain no provision for Federal income taxes.  However, the Company is subject
to certain state and local income, excise or franchise taxes.  The Company paid
no Federal income taxes during the year ended December 31, 1996.  The aggregate
cost of land and depreciable property for Federal income tax purposes as of
December 31, 1996 was approximately $2.8 billion.

   (i)  Income per Common Share

    Income per Common Share was based on the weighted average number of Common
Shares outstanding during each of the three years ended December 31, 1996.  The
conversion of an OP Unit to a Common Share will have no effect on income per
Common Share since the allocation of earnings to an OP Unit is equivalent to a
Common Share.

   (j)  Minority Interests

    Net income is allocated to the Minority Interests based on their respective
ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership.  Ownership percentage is
represented by dividing the number of OP Units held by the Minority Interests by
the OP Units held by Minority Interests and Common Shares outstanding.  Issuance
of additional Common Shares or OP Units changes the ownership of both the
Minority Interests and the Company.  Such transactions and the proceeds
therefrom are treated as capital transactions and result in an allocation
between shareholders' equity and Minority Interests to account for the change in
the respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating
Partnership.

   (k)  Use of Estimates

    In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles, management makes estimates and
assumptions that effect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from these estimates.

                                     F-19

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)


5.  Rental Property

      The following summarizes the carrying amounts for the rental property as 
of December 31, 1996 and 1995:



    During 1996, the Company acquired the Properties listed below.  Each 
Property was purchased from an unaffiliated third party. The cash portions of
the acquisitions were funded from either proceeds raised through the various
offerings, amounts drawn on the Company's line of credit or working capital. In
connection with certain of the acquisitions listed below, the Company assumed
mortgage indebtedness of $134.1 million and issued OP Units having a value of
$440,000.

 

                                     F-20

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)


   In addition to the Properties mentioned above, on February 1, 1996,
Management Corp. II transferred to the Company its interest in Desert Park, a
368-unit Property located in Las Vegas, Nevada, subject to $8.1 million of
indebtedness, in exchange for the forgiveness of a $2.7 million note payable to
the Company.
 
                                     F-21

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)
 
     During 1996, the Company disposed of the properties listed below.  Each
property was sold to an unaffiliated third party.



     The Company recognized a total gain of approximately $22.4 million on the
disposition of these five Properties.

   During the year ended December 31, 1995, the Company recorded a $1 million
loss which represented the estimated impairment in connection with the potential
sale of University Park located in Toledo, Ohio.  This Property had a net
carrying amount as of December 31, 1995 of approximately $1.1 million after the
impairment loss.  The impairment loss on real estate to be disposed of is
included in gain on disposition of properties on the statement of operations for
the year ended December 31, 1995.

6.   INVESTMENT IN MORTGAGE NOTES AND PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS

     In 1995, the Company made an $89 million investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by the Additional
Properties.  These Additional Properties consist of 3,896 units, located in
California, Colorado, New Mexico and Oklahoma.  This included a $87.1 million
investment in second and third mortgages (net of an original discount of
approximately $12.7 million to their face value), $1.6 million represents a one
time payment for an interest rate protection agreement and $0.3 million
represents an investment for primarily a 49.5% limited partnership interest in
the title-holding entities.  As the Company does not control the general
partners of the title-holding entities and substantially all of the Company's
investment is in second and third mortgages (which are subordinate to first
mortgages owned by third party unaffiliated entities), the $87.1 million
investment is accounted for as an investment in mortgage notes.  The $1.6
million payment made for the interest rate protection agreement is included in
deferred financing costs and is being amortized over the term of the related
debt.  The investment in limited partnership interests is accounted for under
the equity method and is included in other assets on the balance sheet.

     As of December 31, 1996 the second mortgage notes had a combined principal
balance of approximately $27.8 million, accrue interest at a rate of 9.45% per
annum, receive principal amortization from excess cash flow and have a stated
maturity date of December 31, 2019.  The 

                                      F-22


                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

third mortgage notes had a combined principal balance of approximately $71.1
million, accrue interest at a rate of 6.15% per annum, plus up to an additional
3% per annum to the extent of available cash flow. Contingent interest on the
third mortgage notes is recognized to the extent it is determined to be
received. The third mortgage notes have a stated maturity of December 31, 2024.
Receipt of principal and interest on the second and third mortgage notes is
subordinated to the receipt of all interest on the first mortgage notes. With
respect to the discount on these notes, the unamortized balance at December 31,
1996 was $12.1 million. During 1996, the Company amortized $0.6 million, which
is included in interest income-investment in mortgage notes in the consolidated
statement of operations. This discount is being amortized utilizing the
effective yield method.

7.   MORTGAGE NOTES PAYABLE

     As of December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness
of approximately $755.4 million encumbering 88 of the Properties.  The carrying
value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of $141.2 million) was
approximately $1.1 billion.  The mortgage notes payable are generally due in
monthly installments of interest only.  In connection with the Properties
acquired during the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company assumed the
outstanding mortgage balances on 14 Properties in the aggregate amount of $142.2
million.  In addition, during 1996, in two separate transactions, certain
indebtedness evidenced by tax-exempt bonds encumbering certain Properties was
refinanced resulting in an increase in mortgage indebtedness affecting these
Properties of approximately $112 million.  As a result of the most recent
transaction, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss in the amount of
approximately $3.5 million, which represented the write-off of unamortized
deferred financing costs from the early retirement of debt.  Concurrent with the
most recent refinanced tax-exempt bonds and as a requirement of the credit
provider of the bonds, the Financing Partnership, which owns certain of the
Properties entered into interest rate protection agreements to fix the interest
rate on the bonds, which protection agreements were assigned to the credit
provider as additional security.  The Company simultaneously entered into
substantially identical reverse protection agreements in order to convert the
interest rate on the tax-exempt bonds back to a floating interest rate.  As of
December 31, 1996, the notional amount of these agreements was approximately
$166.8 million.  The Company believes that it has limited exposure to the extent
of non-performance by the counterparties of the agreements since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance.

     Scheduled maturities for the Company's outstanding mortgage indebtedness
are at various dates through August 1, 2030.  During the year ended December 31,
1996, effective interest cost on certain of these mortgage notes was 7.87%.
During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company repaid the outstanding
mortgage balances on eight Properties in the aggregate amount of $57 million.
Subsequent to December 31, 1996, the Company repaid the outstanding mortgage
balance on three Properties in the amount of approximately $19.6 million.  In
February 1996, the Company entered into an interest rate protection agreement
which hedged the interest rate risk of $50 million of mortgage loans scheduled
to mature in September 1997 by locking the five year 

                                      F-23

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

Treasury Rate, commencing October 1, 1997.

     As of December 31, 1995, the Company had outstanding mortgage indebtedness
of approximately $561.7 million encumbering 73 of the Properties.  The carrying
value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of $103.4 million) was
$770.3 million.  The mortgage notes payable are generally due in monthly
installments of interest only. Scheduled maturities are at various dates through
April 1, 2027.  As of December 31, 1995, fixed interest rates on certain of the
mortgage notes ranged from 4.00% to 10.27% and variable interest rates on
certain of the mortgage notes ranged from 4.05% to 7.63%.  During the year ended
December 31, 1995, the Company repaid the outstanding mortgage balance on seven
Properties in the aggregate amount of approximately $45.5 million.

     During 1996 the Company terminated two interest rate protection agreements
that were initially entered into in connection with two mortgage loans with
notional amounts totaling $64.2 million. These two agreements effectively
converted these two mortgage loans to fixed rate instruments based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").  Upon the termination of these agreements the
Company received, or is entitled to receive, settlement payments of
approximately $230,000.

     Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of the
next five years and thereafter are as follows:



8.   LINES OF CREDIT

     The Company, through the Operating Partnership, had a $250 million
unsecured line of credit with Wells Fargo Realty Advisors Funding Incorporated,
as agent, through November 14, 1996.  On November 15, 1996, the Company
completed an agreement with Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and Bank
of America of Illinois to provide the Company, through the Operating
Partnership, a $250 million unsecured line of credit.  This new line of credit
matures in November 1999 and borrowings generally will bear interest at a per
annum rate of one, two, three or six month LIBOR, plus 0.75%, and is subject to
an annual facility fee of $500,000.  As of 

                                      F-24

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

December 31, 1996, there were no amounts outstanding on this line of credit.

9.   NOTES

     On May 16, 1994, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of unsecured
senior notes (the "1999 Notes") in a private placement (the "Debt Offering") to
qualified institutional buyers.  The 1999 Notes were issued at a discount, which
is being amortized over the life of the 1999 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As
of December 31, 1996 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.4
million.  The 1999 Notes are due May 15, 1999 and bear interest at a rate of
8.5%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15.  The
Operating Partnership received net proceeds of $122.9 million in connection with
the Debt Offering.  In February 1996 the Company entered into an interest rate
protection agreement that hedged the interest rate risk of the 1999 Notes by
locking the effective four year Treasury Rate commencing May 15, 1999.  There
was no current cost to the Company for entering into this agreement.

     In December 1994, the Operating Partnership registered $500 million in debt
securities pursuant to a debt shelf registration statement (the "Debt Shelf
Registration") of which $100 million of unsecured floating rate notes (the
"Floating Rate Notes") were issued by the Operating Partnership on December 22,
1994 (the "Public Debt Offering").  The Floating Rate Notes are due on December
22, 1997 and bear interest at three month LIBOR plus 0.75%, which is payable
quarterly in arrears on the third Wednesday of each February, May, August and
November of each year.  The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of $98.6
million in connection with the Public Debt Offering.  In connection with the
Floating Rate Notes, the Operating Partnership has entered into interest rate
protection agreements which fix the interest rate at an effective rate of 7.075%
through the term of the Floating Rate Notes.

     In April 1995, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2002 Notes") in connection with the Debt Shelf
Registration in a public debt offering (the "Second Public Debt Offering").  The
2002 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the life of
the 2002 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1996 the
unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.8 million.  The 2002 Notes are
due on April 15, 2002 and bear interest at 7.95%, which is payable semi-annually
on each October 15 and April 15.  The Operating Partnership received net
proceeds of $123.1 million in connection with the Second Public Debt Offering.
Prior to the issuance of the 2002 Notes, the Operating Partnership entered into
an interest rate protection agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost
of such issuance. The Operating Partnership made a one time settlement payment
of this protection transaction, which was approximately $0.8 million and is
being amortized over the term of the 2002 Notes.  As of December 31, 1996 the
unamortized balance of this cost was approximately $0.6 million.

                                      F-25

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

     In August 1996, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of unsecured
fixed rate notes (the "2026 Notes") in connection with the Debt Shelf
Registration in a public debt offering (the "Third Public Debt Offering").  The
2026 Notes are due on August 15, 2026 and bear interest at 7.57%, which is
payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15, commencing
February 15, 1997.  The 2026 Notes are redeemable at any time after August 15,
2006 by the Operating Partnership pursuant to the terms thereof.  The Operating
Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $149 million in connection
with this issuance.  Prior to the issuance of the 2026 Notes, the Company
entered into an interest rate protection agreement to effectively fix the
interest rate cost of this issuance to 7.5%.  The Operating Partnership received
a one time settlement payment of this transaction, which was approximately $0.6
million, which amount is being amortized over the term of the 2026 Notes.  As of
December 31, 1996, the unamortized balance was approximately $0.6 million.

     On September 18, 1996, the Operating Partnership filed with the SEC a Form
S-3 Registration Statement to register $500 million of debt securities (the
"1996 Debt Shelf Registration"). The SEC declared this Registration effective on
September 23, 1996.

     In regard to all of the interest rate protection agreements mentioned in
the previous paragraphs, the Company believes that it has limited exposure to
the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance.

10.  EMPLOYEE TRANSACTIONS

     As of December 31, 1996, the outstanding principal balance on the employee
notes issued in connection with Common Shares purchased was, in the aggregate,
approximately $5.26 million. Douglas Crocker II, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and four other officers had purchased an aggregate of
194,000 Common Shares at prices which range from $26 to $31.625 per Common
Share.  These purchases were financed by loans made by the Company in the
aggregate amount of approximately $5.4 million.  The employee notes accrue
interest, payable in arrears, at rates that range from 6.15% per annum to 7.93%
per annum.  Scheduled maturities are at various dates through March 2005.  The
employee notes are recourse to Mr. Crocker and the four other officers and are
collateralized by pledges of the 194,000 Common Shares purchased.

     In addition, as of December 31, 1996, the outstanding principal balance on
additional notes issued to Mr. Crocker was approximately $0.8 million.  These
notes accrue interest, payable in arrears, at one month LIBOR plus 2% per annum.
Scheduled maturities are at various dates through March 2003.  The notes are
recourse to Mr. Crocker and are collateralized by pledges of options, share
awards and Common Shares purchased.

     During 1996 the Board of Trustees approved a deferred compensation
agreement (the "Agreement") for Mr. Crocker. This Agreement would provide Mr.
Crocker with a salary benefit after his termination of employment with the
Company.


                                      F-26

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

If Mr. Crocker's employment is terminated without cause, he would be entitled to
annual deferred compensation for a 10-year period commencing on the termination
date in an amount equal to his average annual base compensation (before bonus)
for the prior five calendar years, multiplied by a percentage equal to 10% per
year since December 31, 1995.  In the event Mr. Crocker's employment is
terminated as a result of his death, permanent disability or incapacity, he
would be entitled to a similar amount except the annual percentage would be 15%
and the maximum paid per year would not exceed 100% of his average base salary.
Should Mr. Crocker be terminated for cause or should he choose to leave
voluntarily without good reason, he would not be entitled to any deferred
compensation.

     The Board of Trustees also approved a deferred compensation (share
distributions) agreement ("Deferred Compensation Agreement") for Mr. Crocker. On
January 18, 1996, Mr. Crocker was issued options to purchase 100,000 Common
Shares, which vest over a 3-year period and are effective for 10 years. Pursuant
to the terms of the Deferred Compensation Agreement, upon the exercise of any
options, Mr. Crocker would be entitled to an amount equal to the amount of
Common Share distributions that would have been paid on said shares being
exercised had he owned said shares for the period from January 18, 1996 until
the date of the exercise of the options in question. This agreement is not
affected by Mr. Crocker's death or termination of employment with the Company.

11.  DEPOSITS-RESTRICTED

     Deposits-restricted, as of December 31, 1996, primarily included deposits
in the amount of approximately $16.4 million held in third party escrow accounts
which were made in connection with a January 1997 acquisition and the expected
acquisition of an additional property.  In addition, approximately $3.7 million
was for tenant security and utility deposits for certain of the Company's
Properties.

     Deposits-restricted as of December 31, 1995 primarily included deposits
held in third party escrow accounts made in connection with certain of the
Company's dispositions.  Approximately $15 million was held in these accounts
and were utilized for the purchase of additional properties. In addition,
approximately $3.2 million was for tenant security and utility deposits for
certain of the Company's Properties.

12.  GAIN ON EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT

     In June 1995, the Company paid approximately $12.6 million in full
satisfaction of a $14.6 million mortgage note obligation related to one of its
Properties.  As a result, the Company recognized a gain of $2 million on the
extinguishment of this indebtedness.

                                      F-27

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

13.  SUMMARIZED PRO FORMA CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)

     The following Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Operations has
been prepared as if the January 1996 Common Share Offering, the February 1996
Common Share Offering, the May 1996 Common Share Offerings, the Third Public
Debt Offering, the Series C Preferred Share Offering, the September 1996 Common
Share Offering, the December 1996 Common Share Offerings, the acquisition of 49
Properties, the assumption of $142.2 million of mortgage indebtedness, the
repayment of $57 million of mortgage indebtedness and the disposition of five
Properties (as described in Note 5, Note 7 and Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements) had occurred on January 1, 1996.  This would result in
51,154,836 Common Shares outstanding.  In management's opinion, the Summarized
Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Operations does not purport to present what
actual results would have been had the above transactions occurred on January 1,
1996, or to project results for any  future period.  The amounts presented in
the following statement are in thousands except for share amounts:

                                      F-28


                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)
 


14. SHARE OPTION PLAN

     The Company adopted, effective May 21, 1993, its 1993 Share Option Plan
(the "1993 Share Option Plan"). Pursuant to the 1993 Share Option Plan, certain
officers, trustees, key employees and consultants of the Company were offered
the opportunity to acquire Common Shares through the grant of share options
("Options"), including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs") and, for key
employees, incentive share options ("ISOs"). The Compensation Committee
determines the vesting schedule, if any, of each Option and the term, which term
shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant. As to the Options that have
been granted through December 31, 1996, generally, one-third are exercisable one
year after the initial grant, one-third are exercisable two years following the
date such Options were granted and the remaining one-third are exercisable three
years following the date such Options were granted. In addition, the 1993 Share
Option Plan provided for the granting of share appreciation rights ("SARs").
Options and SARs are sometimes referred to herein as "Awards". The Common Shares
subject to Awards under the 1993 Share Option Plan were limited to 1,000,000.

     On February 28, 1995, the Board of Trustees approved the Amended and
Restated 1993 Share Option and Share Award Plan (the "Option and Award Plan")
and on May 10, 1995, the shareholders approved the Option and Award Plan.
Pursuant to the Option and Award Plan, officers, directors, key employees and
consultants of the Company may be offered the opportunity to acquire Common
Shares through the grant of NQSOs, ISOs and SARs or may be granted restricted or
non-restricted shares.  Additionally, under the  Option and Award Plan, certain
officers of the Company may be awarded Common Shares, subject to conditions and
restrictions as described in the Option and Award Plan.  Options and Awards for
up to 1,600,000 Common Shares may be issued under the Option and Award Plan
(including those Options granted under the 1993 Option Plan).

                                      F-29

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (Continued)

     The Second Amended and Restated Share Option and Share Award Plan ("Second
Amended Option and Award Plan") was approved by the Board of Trustees on
February 26, 1996 and approved by the shareholders on May 10, 1996.  The Second
Amended Option and Award Plan increased the number of Options and Awards which
can be issued by the Company to 3,600,000 Common Shares.

     The number of Common Shares to which the SARs relate shall not exceed
3,600,000 less the number of Common Shares relating to outstanding Options.  The
exercise price for all Options under the Option and Award Plan shall not be less
than the fair market value of the underlying Common Shares at the time the
Option is granted.  The Option and Award Plan will terminate at such time as no
further Common Shares are available for issuance upon the exercise of Options
and all outstanding Options have expired or been exercised.  The Board of
Trustees may at any time amend or terminate the Option and Award Plan, but
termination will not affect Awards previously granted.  Any Options which had
vested prior to such a termination would remain exercisable by the holder
thereof.

     The Option and Award Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee
which is appointed by the Board of Trustees.  The Compensation Committee
determines those officers, key employees and consultants to whom, and the time
or times at which, grants of Awards will be made.  The Compensation Committee
interprets the Option and Award Plan, adopts rules relating thereto and
determines the terms and provisions of Awards.

     The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," (APB No. 25)
in the computation of compensation expense. Under APB No. 25's intrinsic value
method, compensation expense is determined by computing the excess of the market
price of the shares over the exercise price on the measurement date. For the
Company's share options, the intrinsic value on the measurement date (or grant
date) is zero, and no compensation expense is recognized. Financial Accounting
Standards Board No. 123 (FASB No. 123) requires the Company to disclose pro
forma net income and income per share as if a fair value based accounting method
had been used in the computation of compensation expense. The fair value of the
options computed under FASB No. 123 would be recognized over the vesting period
of the options. The fair value for the Company's options granted subsequent to
December 31, 1994 was estimated at the time the options were granted using the
Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions for 1995 and 1996, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 6.51%
and 6.35%; dividend yields of 7.64% and 6.98%; volatility factors of the
expected market price of the Company's Common Shares of 0.226 and 0.226; and a
weighted-average expected life of the option of seven years.

     The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
volatility. Because the Company's Options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its Options.

     For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
Options is amortized to expense over the Options' vesting period. The following
is the pro forma information for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995:




                                      F-30

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

     The table below summarizes the Option activity of the Option and Award Plan
for the three years ended December 31, 1996:



     As of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, 898,075 shares, 743,368 shares and
551,172 shares were exercisable, respectively. Exercise prices for Options
outstanding as of December 31, 1996 ranged from $26 to $35.375. Expiration dates
ranged from August 11, 2003 to September 17, 2006. The remaining weighted-
average contractual life of those Options was 8.25 years. The weighted-average
grant-date fair value of Options granted during 1996 was 3.81.

15.  EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

     The Company adopted, effective July 1, 1996, its Employee Share Purchase
Plan.  Pursuant to the Employee Share Purchase Plan, certain eligible officers,
trustees and employees of the Company may annually acquire up to $100,000 of
Common Shares of the Company.  The aggregate number of Common Shares available
under the Employee Share Purchase Plan shall not exceed 1,000,000, subject to
adjustment by the Board of Trustees.  The Common Shares may be purchased
quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing price for a
share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater of: (i) the closing
price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and (ii) the average closing
price for a share for all the business days in the quarter.  During 1996, the
Company issued 39,458 Common Shares at a net price of $30.44 per share.

16.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various
environmental laws of Federal and local governments. Compliance by the Company
with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations.  However, the Company cannot
predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current
Properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.

     On March 20, 1996, a legal proceeding (Nick J. Miletich, Administrator of
the Estates of Dorothy Miletich and Madelyne Miletich, deceased, v. Equity
Residential Properties Trust, Equity Residential Properties Management
Corporation, Curt Vajgrt, Raymond Countryman and Darla Countryman) (Iowa
District Court, Polk County, Iowa, Law Case No. CL 68908) was filed against the
Company.  This legal proceeding arises out of the Company's ownership and
management of 

                                      F-31

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (Continued)

the apartment building known as 3000 Grand Ave. in Des Moines, Iowa and alleges
that Raymond and Darla Countryman murdered Dorothy Miletich and Madelyne
Miletich, who were residents of the apartment complex, on June 15, 1995. Raymond
Countryman is a former employee of the Company.  The plaintiff alleges, inter
                                                                        ----- 
alia, that had the Company learned of the background of Mr. Countryman prior to 
- - ----
his employment, the Company would not have hired him and the deaths of the
Miletichs would have been avoided.  While the Company is vigorously contesting
these claims, there is no assurance that the Company will not be held liable for
said deaths and there is no assurance that its insurance coverage will cover all
damages that may be awarded against it.  At this time, an estimate of the 
possible loss or range of loss that the Company may incur cannot be determined.

     The Company does not believe there is any other litigation, except as
mentioned in the previous paragraph, threatened against the Company other than
routine litigation arising out of the ordinary course of business, some of which
is expected to be covered by liability insurance, none of which is expected to
have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of the
Company.

     The Company has lease agreements with an affiliated party covering office
space occupied by regional operations centers located in Tampa, Florida
("Southeast ROC") and Chicago, Illinois ("Midwest ROC").  The Southeast ROC
agreement expires on October 31, 2001 and the Midwest ROC agreement expires on
September 30, 2000.

     The Company also has four additional lease agreements with unaffiliated
parties covering space occupied by regional operations centers located in
Dallas, Texas (the "Southwest ROC"); Bethesda, Maryland (the "Atlantic ROC");
Denver, Colorado (the "Western ROC") and Seattle, Washington (the "Pacific
Northwest ROC").  The lease agreement for the Southwest ROC expires on March 31,
1999, the lease agreement for the Atlantic ROC expires on November 30, 1998, the
lease agreement for the Western ROC expires on November 30, 1999 and the lease
agreement for the Pacific Northwest ROC expires on November 30, 2000.

     The Company also has a lease agreement with an affiliated party covering
office space occupied by the corporate headquarters located in Chicago,
Illinois.  This agreement, as amended, expires on July 31, 2001.  In addition,
commencing September 1, 1996, the Company increased the office space occupied by
its corporate personnel.  The lease agreement covering the additional space
expires on April 29, 1998.

     During the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, total rentals,
including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and utilities,
aggregated $1,020,311, $1,049,731 and $403,346, respectively.

     The minimum basic aggregate rental commitment under the above described
leases in years succeeding December 31, 1996 is as follows:



                                      F-32

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)



                                      F-33

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)


17.  TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES

     Certain related entities provided services to the Company.  These included,
but were not limited to, Rosenberg & Liebentritt, P.C., which provided legal
services; Greenberg & Pociask, Ltd., which provided tax and accounting services;
First Capital Financial Corporation, which provided accounting services; and
Computech Systems, Inc., which provided computer services.  Fees paid to these
related entities in the aggregate amounted to approximately $0.7 million, $2.5
million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  In addition, The Riverside Agency, Inc., which provided insurance
brokerage services, was paid fees and reimbursed premiums and loss claims in 
the amount of $4.1 million, $2.6 million and $2.3 million for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. As of December 31, 1996 and
1995, $315,700 and $366,300, respectively, was owed to Rosenberg & Liebentritt,
P.C. for legal fees incurred in connection with securities offerings, litigation
matters, property acquisitions and other general corporate matters.

     Equity Group Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, including
Equity Assets Management, Inc., Eagle Flight Services, Equity Properties &
Development, L.P. and EPMC ("EGI"), have provided certain services to the
Company which include, but are not limited to, financial and accounting
services, investor relations, corporate secretarial, computer and support
services, real estate tax evaluation services, market consulting and research
services, financing services, information systems services and property
development services.  Fees paid to EGI for these services amounted to $1.3
million, $3.4 million and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.  Amounts due to EGI were approximately $0.3 million
and $1.1 million as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     In connection with the affiliated lease agreements discussed in Note 16,
the Company paid Equity Office Holdings, L.L.C. ("EOH") $118,919, $104,421 and
$118,518 in connection with the Midwest ROC, $137,638, $9,783 and $85,466 in
connection with the Southeast ROC and $409,392, $632,725 and $19,070 in
connection with the space occupied by the corporate headquarters for the years
ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  As of December 31, 1996,
approximately $46,435 was owed to EOH and as of December 31, 1995, no amounts
were owed to EOH.

     In connection with the Private Equity Offering and the Shelf Offering, the
Company paid Equity Institutional Investors, Inc. ("EII") consulting fees in the
amount of $200,000 and $680,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  As of December 31, 1996 and 1995, no amounts were owed to EII for
consulting services.

     Artery Property Management, Inc. ("Artery") provided the Company consulting
services with regard to property acquisitions and additional business
opportunities.  Fees paid for those services and reimbursed expenses amounted to
approximately $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the years ended December 31,
1996 and 1995.

     Rudnick & Wolfe, a law firm in which Mr. Errol Halperin, a trustee of the
Company, is a partner, provided legal services to the Company.  Fees paid to
this firm amounted to approximately 

                                      F-34

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)


$4,300, $41,300 and $10,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994.

     Genesis Merchant Group Securities ("Genesis") provided the Company
brokerage services and was paid $18,970 during the year ended December 31, 1994.
SZRL Investments, an Illinois general partnership of which one of its partners
is a trust created for the benefit of Mr. Zell, is a limited partner of Genesis
Merchant Group, the sole general partner of Genesis.

     In addition, the Company has provided acquisitions, asset and property
management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by the
Company.  Fees received for providing such services were approximately $6.7
million, $7 million and $4.7 million for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively.

18.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited):

    The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis of a
December 31 year end:  (Amounts in thousands, except for per share amounts)


                                      F-35

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)




19.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     On January 2, 1997, the Company acquired Town Center Apartments, a 258-unit
multifamily property located in Kingwood, Texas, from an unaffiliated third
party for a purchase price of $12.8 million.

     On January 16, 1997 the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of
Merger regarding the planned acquisition of the multifamily property business of
Wellsford Residential Property Trust ("Wellsford"), a Maryland real estate
investment trust, by the Company through the tax free merger of the Company and
Wellsford.  This transaction is valued at approximately $1 billion and includes
75 multifamily residential properties containing 19,004 units.

     On January 21, 1997, the Company acquired Harborview Apartments, a 160-unit
multifamily property located in San Pedro, California, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of $19 million, which included the assumption
of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $12.69 million.

     On January 31, 1997, the Company acquired The Cardinal Apartments, a 256-
unit multifamily property located in Greensboro, North Carolina, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of $12.77 million, including the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness in the amount of approximately $7.53
million.

                                      F-36

 
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (Continued)

     On February 12, 1997, the Company acquired Trails at Dominion, a 843-unit
multifamily property located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third party
for a purchase price of $38.3 million, which included the assumption of mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $26.19 million.

     On February 25, 1997, the Company declared a $0.625 distribution per Common
Share, $0.585938 per Series A Preferred Share, $0.570313 per Series B Depositary
Share and $0.570313 per Series C Depositary Share for the quarter ended March
31, 1997 to shareholders of record on March 28, 1997.
 
     On February 25, 1997, the Company acquired Dartmouth Woods Apartments, a
201-unit multifamily property located in Lakewood, Colorado, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of $12.4 million, including the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness in the amount of approximately $4.44
million.

     On February 28, 1997, the Company acquired Rincon Apartments, a 288-unit
multifamily property located in Houston, Texas, from an unaffiliated third party
for a purchase price of $20.87 million.

     On February 28, 1997, the Company acquired Waterford at the Lakes
Apartments, a 344-unit multifamily property located in Kent, Washington, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of $18.9 million.

     On March 17, 1997, the Company acquired Junipers at Yarmouth Apartments, a
225-unit multifamily property located in Yarmouth, Maine, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of $9.15 million.

     As of March 20, 1997, the Company completed offerings of 938,800 publicly 
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $46 per share. The 
Company received net proceeds of approximately $43.2 million in connection 
therewith.

                                      F-37

 
                 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE


To the Board of Trustees
Equity Residential Properties Trust


In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Equity 
Residential Properties Trust referred to in our report dated February 14, 1996, 
which financial statements are included in this Form 10-K, we have also audited 
the 1995 and 1994 information in the financial statement schedule listed in the 
Index to the Financial Statements and Schedule.  In our opinion, this financial 
statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the 1995 and 1994 
information required to be set forth therein.



                                                          /s/ Grant Thornton LLP
                                                          ----------------------
                                                              GRANT THORNTON LLP



Chicago, Illinois
February 14, 1996

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1996


                                                     
                                                                              
                                      S-2
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1996


                                                                      
                                                                              
                                      S-3
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1996


 
                                                                              
                                      S-4
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1996


                                                                      
                                                                              
                                      S-5
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1996


 

 
                                                                              
                                      S-6
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1996


                                                                      
                                                                              
                                      S-7
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                               December 31, 1996


NOTES:

(A)  The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total amount was 
     $132,062,754 as of December 31, 1996.
(B)  The aggregate cost for Federal Income Tax purposes as of December 31, 1996 
     was approximately $2.8 billion.
(C)  The life to compute depreciation for furniture & fixtures is 5 years.
(D)  These two properties are encumbered by $15,178,699 in bonds.
(E)  These 15 properties are encumbered by a $44,000,000 note payable.
(F)  These four properties are encumbered by $15,500,000 in bonds.
(G)  This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents furniture,
     fixtures and equipment owned by the Management Business.
(H)  This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents furniture, 
     fixtures and equipment owned by the Operating Partnership.
(I)  Improvements are net of write-off of fully depreciated assets which are no 
     longer in service.
(J)  Combined with Cedar Cove
(K)  Formerly Oxford & Sussex
(L)  Formerly Post Place
(M)  Formerly The Vinings at Coral Springs
(N)  Formerly The Plantations (NC)
(O)  These properties are pledged as additional collateral in connection with 
     the tax-exempt bond refinancing.


*  Four Lakes was constructed in phases between 1968 & 1988.
(#) The Lodge-Texas was struck by a tornado that destroyed most of the property.
The property was reconstructed during 1989 & 1990.
(x) Pines of Springdale was constructed in phases between 1985 & 1987.

                                      S-8

 
                                 SCHEDULE III

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
              REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (CONTINUED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995,
and 1994 are as follows:

 

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 1996,
1995 and 1994 are as follows:

 

                                      S-9


