
10-K
FORM 10-K




                                    FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

              [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the Fiscal Year Ended DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission File Number: 1-12252

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)


                                 (312) 474-1300
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting shares held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $5.1 billion based upon the
closing price on March 1, 2000 of $40 using beneficial ownership of shares rules
adopted pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to exclude
voting shares owned by Trustees and Officers, some of whom may not be held to be
affiliates upon judicial determination.

At March 1, 2000, 127,911,989 of the Registrant's Common Shares of Beneficial
Interest were outstanding.








                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



Part III incorporates by reference information to be contained in the Company's
definitive proxy statement, which the Company anticipates will be filed no later
than March 31, 2000, and thus these items have been omitted in accordance with
General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.











                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

         Equity Residential Properties Trust ("EQR") is a self-administered and
self-managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT"). EQR was organized in
March 1993 and commenced operations on August 18, 1993 upon completion of its
initial public offering (the "EQR IPO") of 13,225,000 common shares of
beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Shares"). EQR was formed
to continue the multifamily property business objectives and acquisition
strategies of certain affiliated entities controlled by Mr. Samuel Zell,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of EQR. These entities had been engaged in the
acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily residential properties since
1969. As used herein, the term "Company" includes EQR and those entities owned
or controlled by it, as the survivor of the mergers between EQR and each of
Wellsford Residential Property Trust ("Wellsford") (the "Wellsford Merger"),
Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc. ("EWR") (the "EWR Merger"), Merry Land &
Investment Company, Inc. ("MRY") (the "MRY Merger") and Lexford Residential
Trust ("LFT") ("the LFT Merger") (collectively, the "Mergers").

         The Company has formed a series of partnerships (the "Financing
Partnerships") which beneficially own certain Properties (see definition below)
that may be encumbered by mortgage indebtedness. In general, these are
structured so that ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating
Partnership"), a subsidiary of EQR, owns a 1% limited partner interest and a 98%
general partner interest in each, with the remaining 1% general partner interest
in each Financing Partnership owned by various qualified REIT subsidiaries
wholly owned by the Company (each a "QRS Corporation"). Rental income from the
Properties that are beneficially owned by a Financing Partnership is used first
to service the applicable mortgage debt and pay other operating expenses and any
excess is then distributed 1% to the applicable QRS Corporation, as the general
partner of such Financing Partnership, and 99% to the Operating Partnership, as
the sole 1% limited partner and as the 98% general partner. The Company has also
formed a series of limited liability companies that own certain Properties
(collectively, the "LLCs"). The Operating Partnership is a 99% managing member
of each LLC and a QRS Corporation is a 1% member of each LLC.

         The Company's subsidiaries include the Operating Partnership, a series
of management limited partnerships and companies (collectively, the "Management
Partnerships" or the "Management Companies"), the Financing Partnerships, the
LLC's and certain other entities.

         As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned or had interests in 1,062
multifamily properties containing 225,708 units, of which it wholly-owned a
portfolio of 983 multifamily properties (individually, a "Property" and
collectively, the "Properties") containing 214,060 units. The remaining 79
properties represent investments in partnership interests and/or subordinated
mortgages containing 11,648 units. The Company's Properties are located in 35
states throughout the United States. The Company is one of the largest publicly
traded REIT's (based on the aggregate market value of its outstanding Common
Shares) and is the largest publicly traded REIT owner of multifamily properties
(based on the number of apartment units wholly owned and total revenues earned).

         Since the EQR IPO and through December 31, 1999, the Company, through
the Operating Partnership, has acquired direct interests in 988 properties
containing 209,975 units in the aggregate for a total purchase price of
approximately $12 billion, including the assumption of approximately $3.2
billion of mortgage indebtedness and $848.2 million of unsecured notes. Since
the EQR IPO and through December 31, 1999, the Company has disposed of 74
properties, containing 17,640 units for a total sales price of approximately
$654.2 million.




                                     PART I
         The Company's corporate headquarters and executive offices are located
in Chicago, Illinois. In addition, the Company has 31 management offices in the
following cities:

         - Scottsdale and Tucson, Arizona;
         - Irvine, Sacramento and San Francisco, California;
         - Denver, Colorado;
         - Tampa, Jacksonville, Ft. Lauderdale and Orlando, Florida;
         - Atlanta and Augusta, Georgia;
         - Chicago, Illinois;
         - Kansas City, Kansas;
         - Louisville, Kentucky;
         - Bethesda, Maryland;
         - Ypsilanti, Michigan;
         - Minneapolis, Minnesota;
         - Las Vegas, Nevada;
         - Charlotte and Raleigh, North Carolina;
         - Reynoldsburg, Ohio
         - Tulsa, Oklahoma;
         - Portland, Oregon;
         - Nashville and Memphis, Tennessee.
         - Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, Texas; and
         - Seattle and Redmond, Washington

         The Company has approximately 6,700 employees. An on-site manager, who
supervises the on-site employees and is responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the Property, directs each of the Company's Properties. A leasing
administrator and/or property administrator generally assists the manager. In
addition, a maintenance director at each Property supervises a maintenance staff
whose responsibilities include a variety of tasks, including responding to
service requests, preparing vacant apartments for the next resident and
performing preventive maintenance procedures year-round.

BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND OPERATING STRATEGIES

         The Company seeks to maximize both current income and long-term growth
in income, thereby increasing:

         - the value of the Properties;
         - distributions on a per Common Share basis; and
         - shareholders' value.

The Company's strategies for accomplishing these objectives are:

         - maintaining and increasing Property occupancy while increasing
           rental rates;

         - controlling expenses, providing regular preventive maintenance,
           making periodic renovations and enhancing amenities;

         - maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total market
           capitalization of less than 50%;

         - strategically acquiring and disposing of properties; and

         - purchasing newly developed, as well as co-investing in the
           development of, multifamily communities.

         The Company is committed to tenant satisfaction by striving to
anticipate industry trends and implementing strategies and policies consistent
with providing quality tenant services. In addition, the




                                     PART I

Company continuously surveys rental rates of competing properties and
conducts satisfaction surveys of residents to determine the factors they
consider most important in choosing a particular apartment unit.

ACQUISITION STRATEGIES

         The Company anticipates that future property acquisitions will be
located in the continental United States. Management will continue to use market
information to evaluate acquisition opportunities. The Company's market database
allows it to review the primary economic indicators of the markets where the
Company currently manages Properties and where it expects to expand its
operations. Acquisitions may be financed from various sources of capital, which
may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity securities, sales
of Properties and collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings. In addition,
the Company may acquire additional multifamily properties in transactions that
include the issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating
Partnership ("OP Units") as consideration for the acquired properties. Such
transactions may, in certain circumstances, partially defer the sellers' tax
consequences.

When evaluating potential acquisitions, the Company will consider:

         - the geographic area and type of community;

         - the location, construction quality, condition and design of the
           property;

         - the current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability
           to increase cash flow;

         - the potential for capital appreciation of the property;

         - the terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent
           increases;

         - the potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory
           environment of the community in which the property is located;

         - the occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar
           type in the vicinity (the overall market and submarket);

         - the prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing
           of the property;

         - the benefits of integration into existing operations; and

         - competition from existing multifamily properties and the potential
           for the construction of new multifamily properties in the area.

         The Company expects to purchase multifamily properties with physical
and market characteristics similar to the Properties.

DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES

         The Company seeks to acquire newly constructed properties and make
investments towards the development of properties in markets where it discerns
strong demand, which the Company believes will enable it to achieve superior
rates of return. The Company's current communities under development and future
developments are in markets or will be in markets where certain market
demographics justify the development of high quality multifamily communities. In
evaluating whether to develop an apartment community in a particular location,
the Company analyzes relevant demographic, economic and financial data.
Specifically, the Company considers the following factors, among others, in
determining the viability of a potential new apartment community:

         - income levels and employment growth trends in the relevant market;

         - uniqueness of location;

         - household growth and net migration of the relevant market's
           population;

         - supply/demand ratio, competitive housing alternatives, sub-market
           occupancy and rent levels;

         - barriers to entry that would limit competition; and

         - purchase prices and yields of available existing stabilized
           communities, if any.



                                     PART I

DISPOSITION STRATEGIES

         Management will use market information to evaluate dispositions.
Factors the Company considers in deciding whether to dispose of its Properties
include the following:

         - potential increases in new construction;

         - areas where the economy is expected to decline substantially; and

         - markets where the Company does not intend to establish long-term
           concentrations.

         The Company will reinvest the proceeds received from property
dispositions primarily to fund property acquisitions as well as fund development
activities. In addition, when feasible the Company may structure these
transactions as tax deferred exchanges.

FINANCING STRATEGIES

         The Company intends to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total
market capitalization of 50% or less. At December 31, 1999, the Company had a
ratio of approximately 42.75% based on the market value of equity equal to the
closing price of the Company's Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and
assuming conversion of all OP Units plus the liquidation preference of the
Company's preferred shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share
("Preferred Shares") and the Operating Partnership's preference units and
interests. It is the Company's policy that EQR shall not incur indebtedness
other than short-term trade, employee compensation, dividends payable or similar
indebtedness that will be paid in the ordinary course of business, and that
indebtedness shall instead be incurred by the Operating Partnership to the
extent necessary to fund the business activities conducted by the Operating
Partnership and its subsidiaries.

EQUITY OFFERINGS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1998 AND 1999

         During 1997, the Company issued 84,183 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan at net prices which ranged from $35.63 per share to
$42.08 per share and raised approximately $3.2 million in connection therewith.

         In March 1997, the Company completed three separate public offerings
relating to an aggregate of 1,921,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at a price of $46 per share. The Company received net
proceeds of approximately $88.3 million therefrom.

         In May 1997, the Company sold 7,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series
D Depositary Shares"). Each Series D Depositary Share represents a 1/10
fractional interest in a 8.60% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series D Preferred
Shares"). The liquidation preference of each of the Series D Preferred shares is
$250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series D Depositary Share). The Company received
net proceeds of approximately $169.5 million from this offering (the "Series D
Preferred Share Offering").

         In June 1997, the Company completed five separate public offerings
comprising an aggregate of 8,992,023 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at prices ranging from $44.06 to $45.88 per share. The
Company received net proceeds of approximately $398.9 million therefrom.

         In September 1997, the Company completed the sale of 498,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $51.125
per share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $24.2 million in
connection with this offering.


                                     PART I

         In September 1997, the Company sold 11,000,000 depositary shares (the
"Series G Depositary Shares"). Each Series G Depositary Share represents a 1/10
fractional interest in a 7 1/4% Series G Convertible Cumulative Preferred Share
of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series G Preferred
Shares"). Series G Depositary Shares representing Series G Preferred Shares are
convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time into Common Shares
at a conversion price of $58.58 per Common Share (equivalent to a conversion
rate of approximately .4268 Common Shares for each Series G Depositary Share).
The liquidation preference of each of the Series G Preferred Shares is $250.00
per share (equivalent to $25 per Series G Depositary Share). The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $264 million from this offering (the
"Series G Preferred Share Offering"). In addition, in October 1997, the Company
sold 1,650,000 additional Series G Depositary Shares pursuant to an
over-allotment option granted to the underwriters and received net proceeds of
approximately $39.6 million therefrom.

         In October 1997, in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of
Properties, the Company issued 3,315,500 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were issued at a price of $45.25 per share with a value of approximately
$150 million.

         On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan. This registration statement
was declared effective on November 25, 1997. The Distribution Reinvestment and
Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan") of the Company provides holders of record
and beneficial owners of Common Shares, Preferred Shares, and limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient
method of investing cash distributions in additional Common Shares (which is
referred to herein as the "Dividend Reinvestment - DRIP Plan"). Common Shares
may also be purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by
participants in the Plan and interested new investors, not currently
shareholders of the Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a
discount ranging between 0% and 5%, as determined in accordance with the DRIP
Plan (which is referred to herein as the "Share Purchase - DRIP Plan").

         In December 1997, in connection with an acquisition of a Property, the
Company issued 736,296 publicly registered Common Shares, which were issued at a
price of $48.85 per share with a value of approximately $36 million.

         Also in December 1997, the Company completed the sale of 467,722
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $51.3125 per
share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $22.8 million in
connection with this offering.

         During 1998, the Company issued 93,521 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $3.7
million.

         During 1998, the Company issued 1,023,184 Common Shares pursuant to the
Share Purchase - DRIP Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $50.7
million.

         During 1998, the Company issued 10,230 Common Shares pursuant to the
Dividend Reinvestment - DRIP Plan and received net proceeds of approximately
$0.4 million.

         On January 27, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 4,000,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$50.4375 per share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $195.3
million in connection therewith.

         On February 3, 1998, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of equity securities. The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February




                                     PART I

27, 1998. In addition, the Company carried over $272 million related to the
registration statement effective on August 4, 1997. As of December 31, 1999,
$1.1 billion remained outstanding under this registration statement.

         On February 18, 1998, the Company completed two offerings of 988,340
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$50.625 per share. On February 23, 1998, the Company completed an offering of
1,000,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a
price of $48 per share. The Company received net proceeds from these offerings
of approximately $95 million.

         On March 30, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 495,663
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $47.9156 per
share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $23.7 million in
connection therewith.

         On April 29, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 946,565
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $46.5459 per
share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $44.1 million in
connection therewith.

         On September 20, 1998, the Company completed its repurchase of
2,367,400 of its Common Shares of beneficial interest, on the open market, for
an average price of $40 per share. The purchases were made between August 5 and
September 17, 1998. The Company paid approximately $94.7 million in connection
therewith. These shares were subsequently retired.

         During 1999, the Company issued 147,885 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $5.2
million.

         During 1999, the Company issued 22,534 Common Shares pursuant to the
Share Purchase - DRIP Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $1.0
million.

         During 1999, the Company issued 36,132 Common Shares pursuant to the
Dividend Reinvestment - DRIP Plan and received net proceeds of approximately
$1.5 million.

         On October 12, 1999, the Company repurchased and retired 148,453 Common
Shares previously issued in connection with the LFT Merger. These Common Shares
were owned by various LFT employees and trustees. The Company paid approximately
$6.3 million in connection therewith.

DEBT OFFERINGS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1998 AND 1999

         In October 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2017 Notes") in a public debt offering. The
2017 Notes are due on October 15, 2017 and bear interest at 7.125%, which is
payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15,
1998. The 2017 Notes are redeemable at any time by the Operating Partnership
pursuant to the terms thereof. The Operating Partnership received net proceeds
of approximately $147.4 million in connection with this issuance.

         In November 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $200 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes in a public debt offering. Of the $200 million
issued, $150 million of these notes are due November 15, 2001 (the "2001 Notes")
and bear interest at a rate of 6.55%, which is payable semiannually in arrears
on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May 15, 1998. The remaining $50 million
of these notes are due November 15, 2003 (the "2003 Notes") and bear interest at
a rate of 6.65%, which is payable semiannually




                                     PART I

in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May 15, 1998. The Operating
Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $198.5 million in connection
with the 2001 Notes and the 2003 Notes.

         On February 3, 1998, the Operating Partnership filed a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of debt securities. The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998. As of
December 31, 1999, $430 million remained outstanding under this registration
statement.

         In April 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $300 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2015 Notes") in a public debt offering. The
2015 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the life of
the notes on a straight-line basis. The 2015 Notes are due April 13, 2015. The
annual interest rate on the 2015 Notes to April 13, 2005 (the "Remarketing
Date") is 6.63%, which is payable semi-annually in arrears on October 13 and
April 13, commencing October 13, 1998. The 2015 Notes are subject to mandatory
tender to the remarketing agent on the Remarketing Date, at the election of the
remarketing dealer and subject to certain limitations. If the remarketing
dealer, initially Salomon Brothers Inc., does not purchase all tendered 2015
Notes on the Remarketing Date, or in certain other limited circumstances, the
Operating Partnership will be required to repurchase the 2015 Notes at 100% of
their principal amount plus accrued interest. If the 2015 Notes are remarketed,
the 2015 Notes will bear interest at the rate determined by the remarketing
dealer on and after the Remarketing Date. The Operating Partnership received net
proceeds of approximately $298.1 million in connection with this issuance. The
Operating Partnership also received approximately $8.1 million from the sale of
the option to remarket the 2015 Notes on the Remarketing Date, which is being
amortized over the term of the 2015 Notes. Prior to the issuance of the 2015
Notes, the Operating Partnership entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of such issuance at the
Remarketing Date. The Operating Partnership received a one-time settlement
payment from this transaction, which was approximately $0.6 million and is being
amortized over seven years.

         In August 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $100 million of
Remarketed Reset Notes (the "August 2003 Notes") in a public debt offering. The
August 2003 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the
life of the notes on a straight-line basis. The August 2003 Notes are due August
21, 2003. During the period from and including August 21, 1998 to but excluding
August 23, 1999 (the "Initial Spread Period") the interest rate on the August
2003 Notes was LIBOR plus 0.45%. The current interest rate for the period from
August 23, 1999 to August 22, 2000 is LIBOR plus 0.75%. Beginning August 23,
1999, the Operating Partnership is entitled to redeem the August 2003 Notes on
certain dates and in certain circumstances. The Operating Partnership received
net proceeds of approximately $99.7 million in connection with this issuance.

         In September 1998, the Operating Partnership issued $145 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2000 Notes") in a public debt offering. The
2000 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the life of
the notes on a straight-line basis. The 2000 Notes are due September 15, 2000.
The annual interest rate on the 2000 Notes is 6.15%, which is payable
semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15,
1999. The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $144.5
million in connection with this issuance.

         In June 1999, the Operating Partnership issued $300 million of
redeemable unsecured fixed rate notes (the "June 2004 Notes") in connection with
the Debt Shelf Registration in a public debt offering. The June 2004 Notes were
issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the life of the notes on a
straight-line basis. The June 2004 Notes are due June 23, 2004. The annual
interest rate on the June 2004 Notes is 7.10%, which is payable semiannually in
arrears on December 23 and June 23, commencing December 23, 1999. The Operating
Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $298.0 million in connection
with this issuance.



                                     PART I

CREDIT FACILITY

         On August 12, 1999 the Company obtained a new three year $700 million
unsecured revolving credit facility, with Bank of America Securities LLC and
Chase Securities Inc. acting as joint lead arrangers. The new line of credit
replaced the Company's $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility, as well
as the $120 million unsecured revolving credit facility which the Company
assumed in the MRY Merger. The prior existing revolving credit facilities were
repaid in full and terminated upon the closing of the new facility. This new
credit facility matures in August 2002 and will be used to fund property
acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short term
liquidity requirements. Advances under the credit facility bear interest at
variable rates based upon LIBOR available at various interest periods, plus a
certain spread dependent upon the Company's credit rating. As of March 7, 2000,
$110 million was outstanding under this new facility bearing interest at a
weighted average rate of 6.28%.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

         On May 30, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of Wellsford through the Wellsford Merger. The
transaction was valued at approximately $1 billion and included 72 Properties of
Wellsford containing 19,004 units. The purchase price consisted of:

         - 10.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
           at the date of closing, of $443.7 million;

         - liquidation value of $157.5 million for the following:

           a)  Wellsford Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;

           b)  Wellsford Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
               Beneficial Interest;

         - assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount
           of $345 million;

         - assumption of other liabilities of approximately $33.5 million; and

         - other merger related costs of approximately $23.4 million.

         In the Wellsford Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial
interest of Wellsford was converted into .625 of a Common Share. In addition,
Wellsford Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 3,999,800 Series E Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series E Preferred Shares") and Wellsford's Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
2,300,000 9.65% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series F Preferred Shares").

         On December 23, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of EWR through the EWR Merger. The transaction was
valued at approximately $1.2 billion and included 53 Properties of EWR
containing 15,331 units and three Properties under construction or expansion
containing 953 units. The purchase price consisted of:

         - 10.3 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
           at the date of closing, of approximately $501.6 million;

         - assumption of EWR's minority interest with a market value of
           approximately $107.3 million;

         - assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount
           of $498 million;

         - assumption of other liabilities of approximately $28.2 million; and

         - other merger related costs of approximately $16.7 million.




                                     PART I

         In the EWR Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial interest
of EWR was converted into .50 of a Common Share.

         On October 19, 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of MRY through the MRY Merger. The transaction
was valued at approximately $2.2 billion and included 108 Properties
containing 32,315 units, three Properties under construction and/or expansion
anticipated to contain 872 units and six Additional Properties containing
1,297 units that were contributed to six joint ventures. The purchase price
consisted of:

         - 21.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
           at the date of closing, of approximately $1 billion;

         - liquidation value of $369.1 million for the following:

           a) MRY Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
              Interest;
           b) MRY Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
              Interest;
           c) MRY Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
              Interest;
           d) MRY Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
              Interest;
           e) MRY Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
              Interest;

         - assumption of MRY's minority interest with a market value of
           approximately $40.2 million.

         - assumption of mortgage indebtedness, unsecured notes and the
           outstanding balance under a line of credit in the amount of $723.5
           million;

         - assumption of other liabilities of approximately $46.5 million; and

         - other merger related costs of approximately $51.9 million.

         In the MRY Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial interest
of MRY was converted into .53 of a Common Share. In addition, MRY spun-off
certain assets and liabilities to Merry Land Properties, Inc. ("MRYP Spinco").
In connection with this spin-off, each holder of MRY common shares received one
share of MRYP Spinco for each twenty shares of MRY common held. As partial
consideration for the transfer, the Company extended a $25 million, one year,
non-revolving loan to MRYP Spinco pursuant to a Senior Debt Agreement. As
additional consideration, the Company extended an additional $20 million of
indebtedness to MRYP Spinco under a 15-year Subordinated Debt Agreement, bearing
interest payable quarterly. The Company also entered into the Preferred Stock
Agreement and received 5,000 shares of MRYP Spinco Preferred Stock with a
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. In June 1999, MRYP Spinco repaid the
entire outstanding Senior Note balance of $18.3 million and the Subordinated
Debt Agreement balance of $20.0 million and repurchased all 5,000 shares of the
preferred stock for $2.7 million. There is no further obligation by either party
in connection with these agreements.

         In addition, MRY Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 164,951 Series H
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series H Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the
Company's 4,000,000 Series I Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series I Preferred
Shares"), the MRY Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 4,599,400 Series J Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series J Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series D Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
1,000,000 Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series K Preferred Shares") and the
MRY Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were
redesignated as the Company's 4,000,000 Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares of




                                     PART I

Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series L Preferred
Shares"). During 1999, all of the Series I Preferred Shares were converted into
2,566,797 Common Shares of the Company.

         On August 23, 1999, the Company sold its entire interest in the six
joint venture properties to MRYP Spinco and received $54.1 million. There is no
further obligation by either party in connection with the joint venture
agreements.

         On October 1, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of LFT through the LFT Merger. The transaction was
valued at approximately $738 million and included 402 Properties of LFT
containing 36,609 units. The purchase price consisted of:

         - 4.0 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value,
           at the date of closing, of approximately $181.1 million;

         - assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount
           of $528.3 million;

         - acquisition of other assets of approximately $40.9 million and
           assumption of other liabilities of approximately $25.3 million; and

         - other merger related costs of approximately $24.5 million.

         In the LFT Merger, each outstanding common share of beneficial interest
of LFT was converted into .463 of a Common Share.

RECENT TRANSACTIONS

         On January 14, 2000, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire,
in an all cash and debt transaction, Globe Business Resources, Inc. ("Globe"),
one of the nation's largest providers of temporary corporate housing and
furniture rental. The shareholders of Globe will receive $13.00 per share upon
closing and up to an additional $0.50 per share post closing, upon final
determination of costs, if any, relating to any potential breaches of certain
representations and covenants. At full funding of $13.50 per share, the Company
would pay approximately $64.8 million in cash for Globe. In addition, the
Company will assume approximately $69.4 million in debt. The acquisition, which
is expected to close during the second quarter of 2000, requires Globe
shareholder approval.

         From January 1, 2000 through March 3, 2000, the Company acquired
Windmont Apartments, a 178-unit property located in Atlanta, GA from an
unaffiliated party for a total purchase price of approximately $10.3 million.

         From January 1, 2000 through March 3, 2000, the Company disposed of six
Properties for a total sales price of $46.7 million.

         On March 3, 2000, Lexford Properties, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Operating Partnership, issued 1.1 million units of 8.50% Series B
Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preference Units with an equity value of $55.0
million. Lexford Properties, L.P. received $53.6 million in net proceeds from
this transaction. The liquidation value of these units is $50 per unit. The 1.1
million units are exchangeable into 1.1 million shares of 8.50% Series M-1
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest of the Company.
The Series M-1 Preferred Shares are not convertible to EQR Common Shares.
Dividends for the Series B Preference Units or the Series M-1 Preferred Shares
are payable quarterly at the rate of $4.25 per unit/share per year. The net
proceeds received from this transaction will be used for scheduled mortgage and
line of credit repayments.




                                     PART I

COMPETITION

         All of the Properties are located in developed areas that include other
multifamily properties. The number of competitive multifamily properties in a
particular area could have a material effect on the Company's ability to lease
units at the Properties or at any newly acquired properties and on the rents
charged. The Company may be competing with other entities that have greater
resources than the Company and whose managers have more experience than the
Company's officers and trustees. In addition, other forms of multifamily
properties, including multifamily properties and manufactured housing controlled
by Mr. Zell, and single-family housing, provide housing alternatives to
potential residents of multifamily properties.

RISK FACTORS

THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS OMIT THE USE OF DEFINED TERMS USED ELSEWHERE HEREIN
AND CONTAIN DEFINED TERMS THAT ARE DIFFERENT FROM THOSE USED IN THE OTHER
SECTIONS OF THIS REPORT. UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED, WHEN USED IN THIS SECTION,
THE TERMS "WE" AND "US" REFER TO EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST AND ITS
SUBSIDIARIES, INCLUDING ERP OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP.

         Set forth below are the risks that we believe are important to
investors who purchase or own our common shares of beneficial interest or
preferred shares of beneficial interest (which we refer to collectively as
"Shares") or units of limited partnership interest ("Units") of ERP Operating
Limited Partnership, our operating partnership, which are redeemable on a
one-for-one basis for common shares or their cash equivalent. In this section,
we refer to the Shares and the Units together as our "securities," and the
investors who own Shares and/or Units as our "security holders."

DEBT FINANCING AND PREFERRED SHARES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PERFORMANCE

         GENERAL

         As of December 31, 1999, certain of our multifamily properties were
subject to approximately $2.9 billion of mortgage indebtedness and our total
debt equaled approximately $5.5 billion. Of our total debt outstanding, $700.9
million (including the balance of $300 million outstanding on our $700 million
unsecured line of credit) was floating rate debt, and $965.8 million was issued
at tax exempt rates. In addition to debt, we have issued preferred shares of
beneficial interest. Our use of debt and preferred equity financing creates
certain risks, including the following.

         SCHEDULED DEBT PAYMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION

         In the future, our cash flow could be insufficient to meet required
payments of principal and interest or to pay distributions on our securities at
expected levels. We may not be able to refinance existing debt (which in
virtually all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity) and, if
we can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of
existing indebtedness. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be
refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such
as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to
repay all maturing debt. As a result, we may be forced to postpone capital
expenditures necessary for the maintenance of our properties and may have to
dispose of one or more properties on terms that would otherwise be unacceptable
to us.

         FINANCIAL COVENANTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL
         CONDITION

         If a property we own is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and
we are unable to meet




                                     PART I

the mortgage payments, the holder of the mortgage could foreclose on the
property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. Foreclosure on mortgaged
properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have
a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. A
foreclosure could also result in our recognition of taxable income without our
actually receiving cash proceeds from the disposition of the property with which
to pay the tax. This could adversely affect our cash flow and could make it more
difficult for us to meet our distribution requirements as a real estate
investment trust (a "REIT").

         The mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants
that, among other things, limit our ability, without the prior consent of the
lender, to further mortgage the property and to discontinue insurance coverage.
In addition, our credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions,
requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. The
indentures under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain
certain financial and operating covenants including, among other things,
maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability
to incur secured and unsecured indebtedness (including acquisition financing),
sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers,
consolidations and certain acquisitions. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these restrictions,
our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. If we are unable to
acquire additional properties, our ability to increase the distributions to
security holders, as we have done in the past, will be limited to management's
ability to increase funds from operations, and thereby cash available for
distributions, from the existing properties in our portfolio at such time.

         Some of the properties were financed with tax-exempt bonds that contain
certain restrictive covenants or deed restrictions. We have retained an
independent outside consultant to monitor compliance with the restrictive
covenants and deed restrictions that affect these properties. If these bond
compliance requirements require us to lower our rental rates to attract low or
moderate income tenants, or eligible/qualified tenants, then our income from
these properties may be limited.

         OUR DEGREE OF LEVERAGE COULD LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL
         FINANCING

         Our debt to market capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of
total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common and preferred shares
and units) was approximately 42.75% as of December 31, 1999. We have a policy of
incurring indebtedness for borrowed money only through the Operating Partnership
and its subsidiaries and only if upon such incurrence our debt to market
capitalization ratio would be approximately 50% or less. Our degree of leverage
could have important consequences to security holders. For example, the degree
of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the
future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or
other general corporate purposes, making us more vulnerable to a downturn in
business or the economy generally.

         RISING INTEREST RATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT CASH FLOW

         Advances under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates
based upon LIBOR available at various interest periods, plus a certain spread
dependent upon the Company's credit rating. Certain of our senior unsecured debt
instruments also, from time to time, bear interest at floating rates. We may
also borrow additional money with variable interest rates in the future.
Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expenses under these
debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing
indebtedness and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates would
adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service our debt and to make
distributions to security holders.




                                     PART I


CONTROL AND INFLUENCE BY SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS COULD BE EXERCISED IN A MANNER
ADVERSE TO OTHER SHAREHOLDERS

         GENERAL

         As of March 1, 2000, (1) Samuel Zell and certain of the current holders
of Units issued to affiliates of Mr. Zell, who contributed 33 properties to us
at the time of our initial public offering, owned in the aggregate approximately
2.85% of our common shares (Mr. Zell and these affiliates are described herein
as the "Zell Original Owners"); (2) certain entities controlled by Starwood
Capital Partners LP ("Starwood") and its affiliates, who contributed 23
properties to us at the time of our initial public offering, owned less than 1%
of our common shares; and (3) our executive officers and trustees, excluding Mr.
Zell (see disclosure above), owned approximately 4.37% of our common shares.
These percentages assume all options are exercised for common shares and all
Units are converted to common shares. In addition, the consent of certain
affiliates of Mr. Zell and Starwood is required for certain amendments to the
Fifth Amended and Restated ERP Operating Limited Partnership Agreement of
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement"). As a result of their security
ownership and rights concerning amendments to the Partnership Agreement, Mr.
Zell and the Starwood owners may have substantial influence over the Company.
Although these security holders have not agreed to act together on any matter,
they would be in a position to exercise even more influence over the Company's
affairs if they were to act together in the future. This influence might be
exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other security
holders.

         MR. ZELL AND OTHERS ARE EXEMPT FROM THE 5% OWNERSHIP LIMIT GENERALLY
         APPLICABLE TO SECURITIES HOLDERS

         In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), not more than 50% of the value of
the outstanding Shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities). To assure
compliance with this test, our Declaration of Trust restricts the ownership of
more than 5% of the lesser of the number or value of the outstanding Shares by
any single security holder, subject to certain exceptions. These restrictions do
not apply to the ownership of common shares that may be acquired by the holders
of Units issued to the Zell Original Owners and the Starwood owners.
Additionally, our Declaration of Trust exempts any transferees of such common
shares from the 5% ownership limit, provided such transfers do not result in an
increased concentration in the ownership.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS ARE POSSIBLE AND CAN BE COSTLY

         Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the
protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or
operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic
substances or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator
may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and
for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with
the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and
liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the
presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been
responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws
may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition,
third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs
resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site.

         Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of
asbestos. These laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing
asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train
those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they




                                     PART I

undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos
would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may
impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners
or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.

         Substantially all of our properties have been the subject of
environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental
consultant companies. These environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are
we aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
condition or liquidity.

         We cannot assure you that existing environmental assessments of our
properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of
our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to
us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to
any one or more of our properties.

OUR PERFORMANCE AND SHARE VALUE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE REAL
ESTATE INDUSTRY

         GENERAL

         Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk and
are relatively illiquid. Several factors may adversely affect the economic
performance and value of our properties. These factors include changes in the
national, regional and local economic climate, local conditions such as an
oversupply of multifamily properties or a reduction in demand for our
multifamily properties, the attractiveness of our properties to tenants,
competition from other available multifamily property owners and changes in
market rental rates. Our performance also depends on our ability to collect rent
from tenants and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating
costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time. Also, the
expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when
circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income
from the property.

         WE MAY BE UNABLE TO RENEW LEASES OR RELET SPACE AS LEASES EXPIRE

         When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we
may not be able to relet their space. Even if the tenants do renew or we can
relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting may be less favorable than
current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the
space, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower
than expected rates, then our results of operations and financial condition will
be adversely affected. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service debt
and make distributions to security holders would be reduced.

         NEW ACQUISITIONS OR DEVELOPMENTS MAY FAIL TO PERFORM AS EXPECTED AND
         COMPETITION FOR ACQUISITIONS MAY RESULT IN INCREASED PRICES FOR
         PROPERTIES

         We intend to continue to actively acquire or develop multifamily
properties. Newly acquired or developed properties may fail to perform as
expected. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property
up to standards established for its intended market position or to develop a
property. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with
significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment
opportunities. This competition has increased prices for multifamily properties.
We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make
suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms.




                                     PART I

         BECAUSE REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS ARE ILLIQUID, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
         SELL PROPERTIES WHEN APPROPRIATE

         Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be
able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions.
This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our
investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make
distributions to our security holders.

         CHANGES IN LAWS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS

         We are generally not able to pass through to our tenants under existing
leases increases in real estate taxes, income taxes and service or other taxes.
Consequently, any such increases may adversely affect our financial condition
and limit our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Similarly,
changes that increase our potential liability under environmental laws or our
expenditures on environmental compliance would adversely affect our cash flow
and ability to make distributions on our securities.

SHAREHOLDERS' ABILITY TO EFFECT CHANGES IN CONTROL OF THE COMPANY IS LIMITED

         PROVISIONS OF OUR DECLARATION OF TRUST AND BYLAWS COULD INHIBIT CHANGES
         IN CONTROL

         Certain provisions of our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws may delay or
prevent a change in control of the Company or other transactions that could
provide the security holders with a premium over the then-prevailing market
price of their securities or which might otherwise be in the best interest of
our security holders. These include a staggered Board of Trustees and the 5%
Ownership Limit described below. See "--We Have a Share Ownership Limit for REIT
Tax Purposes." Also, any future series of preferred shares of beneficial
interest may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change
of control or other transactions that might otherwise be in the interest of our
security holders.

         WE HAVE A SHARE OWNERSHIP LIMIT FOR REIT TAX PURPOSES

         To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more
than 50% in value of our outstanding Shares may be owned, directly or
indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any
year. To facilitate maintenance of our REIT qualification, our Declaration of
Trust, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits ownership by any single
shareholder of more than 5% of the lesser of the number or value of the
outstanding class of common or preferred shares. See "--Control and Influence by
Significant Shareholders--Mr. Zell and Others are Exempt from the 5% Ownership
Limit Generally Applicable to Securities Holders." We refer to this restriction
as the "Ownership Limit." Absent any exemption or waiver, securities acquired or
held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred to a trust for the
exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the security
holder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. A transfer of
Shares may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The
Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control and, therefore, could
adversely affect our security holders' ability to realize a premium over the
then-prevailing market price for their Shares.

         OUR PREFERRED SHARES OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST MAY AFFECT CHANGES IN
         CONTROL

         Our Declaration of Trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to issue up
to 100 million preferred shares of beneficial interest, and to establish the
preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert
into common shares) of any preferred shares issued. The Board of Trustees may
use its powers to issue preferred shares and to set the terms of such securities
to delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if a change in




                                     PART I

control were in the interest of security holders. As of December 31, 1999,
25,085,652 preferred shares were issued and outstanding.

         INAPPLICABILITY OF MARYLAND LAW LIMITING CERTAIN CHANGES IN CONTROL

         Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to real estate investment
trusts prohibit "business combinations" (including certain issuances of equity
securities) with any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the
voting power of outstanding securities, or with an affiliate who, at any time
within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial
owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust's outstanding
voting securities (an "Interested Shareholder"), or with an affiliate of an
Interested Shareholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most
recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested
Shareholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an
Interested Shareholder must be approved by two super-majority shareholder votes
unless, among other conditions, the trust's holders of common shares receive a
minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in
the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its common
shares. As permitted by Maryland law, however, the Board of Trustees of the
Company has opted out of these restrictions with respect to any business
combination involving the Zell Original Owners and persons acting in concert
with any of the Zell Original Owners. Consequently, the five-year prohibition
and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to a business
combination involving us and any of them. Such business combinations may not be
in the best interest of our security holders.

OUR SUCCESS AS A REIT IS DEPENDENT ON COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL INCOME TAX
REQUIREMENTS

         OUR FAILURE TO QUALIFY AS A REIT WOULD HAVE SERIOUS ADVERSE
         CONSEQUENCES TO OUR SECURITY HOLDERS

         We believe that we have qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal
income tax purposes since our taxable year ended December 31, 1992. We plan to
continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these
requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. We cannot, therefore,
guarantee that we have qualified or will qualify in the future as a REIT. The
determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters
that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT,
at least 95% of our gross income must come from sources that are itemized in the
REIT tax laws. We are also required to distribute to security holders at least
95% of our REIT taxable income excluding capital gains. The fact that we hold
our assets through ERP Operating Limited Partnership and its subsidiaries
further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical
or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress
and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts
might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to
remain qualified as a REIT. We do not believe, however, that any pending or
proposed tax law changes would jeopardize our REIT status.

         If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income
tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under
certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four
years following the year we first failed to qualify. If we fail to qualify as a
REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes. We, therefore, would have
less money available for investments or for distributions to security holders.
This would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our
securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to make any
distributions to security holders.




                                     PART I

         WE COULD BE DISQUALIFIED AS A REIT OR HAVE TO PAY TAXES IF OUR MERGER
         PARTNERS DID NOT QUALIFY AS REIT'S

         If any of our recent merger partners had failed to qualify as a REIT
throughout the duration of their existence, then they might have had
undistributed "C corporation earnings and profits" at the time of their merger
with us. If that was the case and we did not distribute those earnings and
profits prior to the end of the year in which the merger took place, we might
not qualify as a REIT. We believe that each of our merger partners qualified as
a REIT and that, in any event, none of them had any undistributed "C corporation
earnings and profits" at the time of their merger with us. If any of our merger
partners failed to qualify as a REIT, an additional concern would be that they
would have recognized taxable gain at the time they were merged with us. We
would be liable for the tax on such gain. In this event, we would have to pay
corporate income tax on any gain existing at the time of the applicable merger
on assets acquired in the merger if the assets are sold within ten years of the
merger. Finally, we could be precluded from electing REIT status for up to four
years after the year in which the predecessor entity failed to qualify for REIT
status.

         OTHER TAX LIABILITIES

         Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal,
state and local taxes on our income and property. In addition, our third-party
management operations, which are conducted through subsidiaries, generally will
be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.

WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL

         We depend on the efforts of the Chairman of our Board of Trustees,
Samuel Zell, and our executive officers, particularly Douglas Crocker II and
Gerald A. Spector. If they resign, our operations could be temporarily adversely
effected. Mr. Crocker and Mr. Spector have entered into Deferred Compensation
Agreements with the Company which provide both with a salary benefit after their
respective termination of employment with the Company. In addition, Mr. Zell,
Mr. Crocker and Mr. Spector have entered into Noncompetition Agreements with the
Company.

COMPLIANCE WITH REIT DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS MAY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION

         DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS MAY INCREASE THE INDEBTEDNESS OF THE COMPANY

         We may be required from time to time, under certain circumstances, to
accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned but not yet received.
In such event, or upon our repayment of principal on debt, we could have taxable
income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution
requirements of a REIT. Accordingly, we could be required to borrow funds or
liquidate investments on adverse terms in order to meet these distribution
requirements.

         WE ARE DEPENDENT ON EXTERNAL SOURCES OF CAPITAL

         Because of our annual REIT distribution requirements, we may not be
able to fund all future capital needs, including for acquisitions and
developments, from income generated by operations and the disposition of certain
assets. We therefore may have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which
may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to
third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the
market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future
earnings. Moreover, additional equity offerings, if pursued, may result in
dilution of security holders' interests, and additional debt financing may
increase our leverage.




                                     PART I

FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

         GENERAL

         The following discussion summarizes all of the federal income tax
considerations material to a holder of common shares. It is not exhaustive of
all possible tax considerations. For example, it does not give a detailed
discussion of any state, local or foreign tax considerations. The following
discussion also does not address all tax matters that may be relevant to
prospective shareholders in light of their particular circumstances. Moreover,
it does not address all tax matters that may be relevant to shareholders who are
subject to special treatment under the tax laws, such as insurance companies,
tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, foreign
corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States.

         The specific tax attributes of a particular shareholder could have a
material impact on the tax considerations associated with the purchase,
ownership and disposition of common shares. Therefore, it is essential that each
prospective shareholder consult with his or her own tax advisors with regard to
the application of the federal income tax laws to the shareholder's personal tax
situation, as well as any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state,
local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.

         OUR TAXATION

         We elected REIT status beginning with the year that ended December 31,
1992. In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be
subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or
capital gain that we distribute to our shareholders. This treatment
substantially eliminates the double taxation that applies to most corporations,
which pay a tax on their income and then distribute dividends to shareholders
who are in turn taxed on the amount they receive. However, we will be subject to
federal income tax at regular corporate rates upon our REIT taxable income or
capital gain that we do not distribute to our shareholders. We also may be
subject to the corporate "alternate minimum tax" on items of preference under
this alternative tax regime. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax
if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. Moreover, we may
be subject to taxes in certain situations and on certain transactions that we do
not presently contemplate.

         If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we
will be subject to tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We also
may be subject to the corporate "alternate minimum tax." As a result, our
failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce the cash we have
available to distribute to our shareholders. Unless entitled to statutory
relief, we would be disqualified from qualification as a REIT for the four
taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not
possible to state whether we would be entitled to statutory relief.

         Our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend on our ability to
satisfy various requirements under the Internal Revenue Code. We are required to
satisfy these requirements on a continuing basis through actual annual operating
and other results. These requirements relate to the sources of our gross income,
the composition of our assets, the amount of dividends we pay to shareholders,
the diversity of our share ownership, and other aspects of our operations. The
purpose of these requirements is to allow the tax benefit of REIT status only to
companies that:

         (a) primarily own, and primarily derive income from, real
             estate-related assets and certain other assets which are passive in
             nature, and

         (b) distribute 95% of the taxable income, computed without regard to
             net capital gain, to shareholders.




                                     PART I

         On December 17, 1999, as part of a larger bill, the President signed
into law the REIT Modernization Act ("RMA"). Effective beginning January 1,
2001, the RMA will amend the tax rules relating to the composition of a REIT's
assets. Under current law, a REIT is precluded from owning more than 10% of the
outstanding voting securities of any one issuer, other than a wholly owned
subsidiary or another REIT. Beginning in 2001, a REIT will remain subject to the
current restriction and be precluded from owning more than 10% of the value of
all classes of any one issuer.

         There is an exception to this prohibition. A REIT will be allowed to
own up to 100% of the securities of a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") that can
provide services to REIT tenants and others without disqualifying the rents that
a REIT receives from its tenants. However, no more than 20% of the value of a
REIT's total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRS. The
amount of debt and rental payments from a TRS to a REIT will be limited to
ensure that a TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate tax. The new
10% asset test will not apply to certain arrangements (including third party
subsidiaries) in place on July 12, 1999, provided that a subsidiary does not
engage in a "substantial" new line of business, its existing business does not
increase, and a REIT does not acquire any new securities in the subsidiary.
Under the RMA, a third party subsidiary will be able to convert tax free into a
TRS.

         In addition to the above legislative changes, effective January 1,
2001, the distribution of taxable income requirement of a REIT will be reduced
from 95% to 90%. Further, effective January 1, 2001, the 15% personal property
test (which generally requires that the adjusted basis of a REIT's personal
property not exceed 15% of its real and personal property in order for income to
be considered rents from real property) will be based on fair market values
instead of adjusted tax basis.

         We believe that we have qualified as a REIT for all of our taxable
years beginning with 1992. We also believe that our current structure and method
of operation is such that we will continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we
cannot guarantee that the actual results of our operations have satisfied or
will satisfy the requirements under the Internal Revenue Code.

         Piper, Marbury, Rudnick & Wolfe, our special tax counsel, will provide
an opinion to the effect that we were organized and have operated in conformity
with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code for each of our taxable years beginning in 1992. The
opinion will also provide that our current organization and method of operation
should enable us to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and
taxation as a REIT. It must be emphasized that the opinion will be based on
various assumptions and factual representations relating to our organization and
our prior and expected operations. In each case, these representations include
representations about our predecessors. Piper, Marbury, Rudnick & Wolfe will not
review our compliance with these requirements on a continuing basis.

         TAXATION OF TAXABLE DOMESTIC SHAREHOLDERS

         General. If we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our taxable
domestic shareholders with respect to their common shares, other than capital
gain distributions, will be treated as ordinary income to the extent that the
distributions come out of earnings and profits. These distributions will not be
eligible for the dividends received deduction for shareholders that are
corporations. In determining whether distributions are out of earnings and
profits, we will allocate our earnings and profits first to preferred shares and
second to the common shares. We cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient
earnings and profits to cover distributions on the preferred shares.

         To the extent we make distributions to our taxable domestic
shareholders in excess of our earnings and profits, such distributions will be
considered a return of capital. Such distributions will be




                                     PART I


treated as a tax free distribution and will reduce the tax basis of a
shareholder's common shares by the amount of the distribution so treated. To the
extent that such distributions cumulatively exceed a taxable domestic
shareholder's tax basis, such distributions are taxable as a gain from the sale
of his shares. Shareholders may not include in their individual income tax
returns any of our net operating losses or capital losses.

         Distributions made by us that we properly designate as capital gain
dividends will be taxable to taxable domestic shareholders as gain from the sale
or exchange of a capital asset held for more than one year. This treatment
applies only to the extent that the designated distributions do not exceed our
actual net capital gain for the taxable year. It applies regardless of the
period for which a domestic shareholder has held his or her common shares.
Despite this general rule, corporate shareholders may be required to treat up to
20% of certain capital gain dividends as ordinary income.

         Generally, we will classify a portion of our designated capital gains
dividend as a 20% rate gain distribution and the remaining portion as an
unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution. As the names suggest, a 20% rate
gain distribution would be taxable to taxable domestic shareholders that are
individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 20%. An unrecaptured Section
1250 gain distribution would be taxable to taxable domestic shareholders that
are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.

         If, for any taxable year, we elect to designate as capital gain
dividends any portion of the dividends paid or made available for the year to
holders of all classes of shares of beneficial interest, then the portion of the
capital gains dividends that will be allocable to the holders of common shares
will be the total capital gain dividends multiplied by a fraction. The numerator
of the fraction will be the total dividends paid or made available to the
holders of the common shares for the year. The denominator of the fraction will
be the total dividends paid or made available to holders of all classes of
shares of beneficial interest.

         In general, a shareholder will recognize gain or loss for federal
income tax purposes on the sale or other disposition of common shares in an
amount equal to the difference between:

         (a)  the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property
              received in the sale or other disposition, and

         (b)  the shareholder's adjusted tax basis in the common shares.

         The gain or loss will be capital gain or loss if the common shares were
held as a capital asset. Generally, the capital gain or loss will be long-term
capital gain or loss if the common shares were held for more than one year. The
Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 allows the IRS to issue regulations relating to the
manner in which capital gain rates will apply to sales of capital assets by
REIT's and to sales of interests in REIT's. The IRS has not issued these
regulations. However, if the IRS does issue these regulations, they could affect
the taxation of gain and loss realized on the disposition of common shares.
Shareholders are urged to consult with their own tax advisors with respect to
the rules contained in the Taxpayer Relief Act.

         In general, a loss recognized by a shareholder upon the sale of common
shares that were held for six months or less, determined after applying certain
holding period rules, will be treated as long-term capital loss to the extent
that the shareholder received distributions that were treated as long-term
capital gains. For shareholders who are individuals, trusts and estates, the
long-term capital loss will be apportioned among the applicable long-term
capital gain rates to the extent that distributions received by the shareholder
were previously so treated.




                                     PART I

         We may elect to retain (rather than distribute as is generally
required) net capital gain for a taxable year and pay the income tax on that
gain. If we make this election, shareholders must include in income, as
long-term capital gain, their proportionate share of the undistributed net
capital gain. Shareholders will be treated as having paid their proportionate
share of the tax paid by us on these gains. Accordingly, they will receive a
credit or refund for the amount. Shareholders will increase the basis in their
common shares by the difference between the amount of capital gain included in
their income and the amount of the tax they are treated as having paid. Our
earnings and profits will be adjusted appropriately.

         TAXATION OF TAX-EXEMPT SHAREHOLDERS

         Most tax-exempt organizations are not subject to federal income tax
except to the extent of their unrelated business taxable income, which is often
referred to as UBIT. Unless a tax-exempt shareholder holds its common shares as
debt financed property or uses the common shares in an unrelated trade or
business, distributions to the shareholder should not constitute UBIT.
Similarly, if a tax-exempt shareholder sells common shares, the income from the
sale should not constitute UBIT unless the shareholder held the shares as debt
financed property or used the shares in a trade or business.

         However, for tax-exempt shareholders that are social clubs, voluntary
employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts, and
qualified group legal services plans, income from owning or selling common
shares will constitute UBIT unless the organization is able to properly deduct
amounts set aside or placed in reserve so as to offset the income generated by
its investment in common shares. These shareholders should consult their own tax
advisors concerning these set aside and reserve requirements which are set forth
in the Internal Revenue Code.

         In addition, certain pension trusts that own more than 10% of a
pension-held REIT must report a portion of the distributions that they receive
from the REIT as UBIT. We have not been and do not expect to be treated as a
pension-held REIT for purposes of this rule.

         TAXATION OF FOREIGN SHAREHOLDERS

         The following is a discussion of certain anticipated United States
federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of common
shares applicable to a foreign shareholder. It is based on current law and is
for general information only. A "foreign shareholder" is any person other than:

         (a)  a citizen or resident of the United States,

         (b)  a corporation or partnership created or organized in the United
              States or under the laws of the United States or of any state
              thereof, or

         (c)  an estate or trust whose income is includable in gross income for
              United States federal income tax purposes regardless of its
              source.

         Distributions by Us. Distributions by us to a foreign shareholder that
are neither attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of United States
real property interests nor designated by us as capital gains dividends will be
treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of
our earnings and profits. These distributions ordinarily will be subject to
withholding of United States federal income tax on a gross basis at a 30% rate,
or a lower treaty rate, unless the dividends are treated as effectively
connected with the conduct by the foreign shareholder of a United States trade
or business. Please note that under certain treaties lower withholding rates
generally applicable to dividends do not apply to dividends from REIT's.
Dividends that are effectively connected with a United States trade or business
will be subject to tax on a net basis at graduated rates, and are generally not
subject to




                                     PART I

withholding. Certification and disclosure requirements must be satisfied
before a dividend is exempt from withholding under this exemption. A foreign
shareholder that is a corporation also may be subject to an additional branch
profits tax at a 30% rate or a lower treaty rate.

         We expect to withhold United States income tax at the rate of 30% on
any distributions made to a foreign shareholder unless:

         (a)  a lower treaty rate applies and any required form or certification
              evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us, or

         (b)  the foreign shareholder files an IRS Form 4224 with us claiming
              that the distribution is effectively connected income.

         A distribution in excess of our current or accumulated earnings and
profits will not be taxable to a foreign shareholder to the extent that the
distribution does not exceed the adjusted basis of the shareholder's common
shares. Instead, the distribution will reduce the adjusted basis of the common
shares. To the extent that the distribution exceeds the adjusted basis of the
common shares, it will give rise to gain from the sale or exchange of the
shareholder's common shares. The tax treatment of this gain is described below.

         As a result of a legislative change made by the Small Business Job
Protection Act of 1996, it appears that we will be required to withhold 10% of
any distribution in excess of our earnings and profits. Consequently, although
we intend to withhold at a rate of 30%, or a lower applicable treaty rate, on
the entire amount of any distribution, to the extent that we do not do so,
distributions will be subject to withholding at a rate of 10%. However, a
foreign shareholder may seek a refund of the withheld amount from the IRS if it
subsequently determined that the distribution was, in fact, in excess of our
earnings and profits, and the amount withheld exceeded the foreign shareholder's
United States tax liability with respect to the distribution.

         Distributions to a foreign shareholder that we designate at the time of
the distributions as capital gain dividends, other than those arising from the
disposition of a United States real property interest, generally will not be
subject to United States federal income taxation unless:

         (a)  the investment in the common shares is effectively connected with
              the foreign shareholder's United States trade or business, in
              which case the foreign shareholder will be subject to the same
              treatment as domestic shareholders, except that a shareholder that
              is a foreign corporation may also be subject to the branch profits
              tax, as discussed above, or

         (b)  the foreign shareholder is a nonresident alien individual who is
              present in the United States for 183 days or more during the
              taxable year and has a "tax home" in the United States, in which
              case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30% tax
              on the individual's capital gains.

         Under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, which is known
as FIRPTA, distributions to a foreign shareholder that are attributable to gain
from sales or exchanges of United States real property interests will cause the
foreign shareholder to be treated as recognizing the gain as income effectively
connected with a United States trade or business. This rule applies whether or
not a distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend. Accordingly,
foreign shareholders generally would be taxed on these distributions at the same
rates applicable to U.S. shareholders, subject to a special alternative minimum
tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. In addition, a foreign
corporate shareholder might be subject to the branch profits tax discussed
above. We are required to withhold 35% of these distributions. The withheld
amount can be credited against the foreign shareholder's United States federal
income tax liability.




                                     PART I

         Although the law is not entirely clear on the matter, it appears that
amounts we designate as undistributed capital gains in respect of the common
shares held by U.S. shareholders would be treated with respect to foreign
shareholders in the same manner as actual distributions of capital gain
dividends. Under that approach, foreign shareholders would be able to offset as
a credit against the United States federal income tax liability their
proportionate share of the tax paid by us on these undistributed capital gains.
In addition, foreign shareholders would be able to receive from the IRS a refund
to the extent their proportionate share of the tax paid by us were to exceed
their actual United States federal income tax liability.

         SALES OF COMMON SHARES. Gain recognized by a foreign shareholder upon
the sale or exchange of common shares generally will not be subject to United
States taxation unless the shares constitute a "United States real property
interest" within the meaning of FIRPTA. The common shares will not constitute a
United States real property interest so long as we are a domestically controlled
REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a
specified testing period less than 50% in value of its stock is held directly or
indirectly by foreign shareholders. We believe that we are a domestically
controlled REIT. Therefore, we believe that the sale of common shares will not
be subject to taxation under FIRPTA. However, because common shares and
preferred shares are publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we will continue
to be a domestically controlled REIT. In any event, gain from the sale or
exchange of common shares not otherwise subject to FIRPTA will be taxable to a
foreign shareholder if either:

         (a)  the investment in the common shares is effectively connected with
              the foreign shareholder's United States trade or business, in
              which case the foreign shareholder will be subject to the same
              treatment as domestic shareholders with respect to the gain, or

         (b)  the foreign shareholder is a nonresident alien individual who is
              present in the United States for 183 days or more during the
              taxable year and has a tax home in the United States, in which
              case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30% tax
              on the individual's capital gains.

         Even if we do not qualify as or cease to be a domestically controlled
REIT, gain arising from the sale or exchange by a foreign shareholder of common
shares still would not be subject to United States taxation under FIRPTA as a
sale of a United States real property interest if:

         (a)  the class or series of shares being sold is "regularly traded," as
              defined by applicable IRS regulations, on an established
              securities market such as the New York Stock Exchange, and

         (b)  the selling foreign shareholder owned 5% or less of the value of
              the outstanding class or series of shares being sold throughout
              the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange.

         If gain on the sale or exchange of common shares were subject to
taxation under FIRPTA, the foreign shareholder would be subject to regular
United States income tax with respect to the gain in the same manner as a
taxable U.S. shareholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax, a
special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals and
the possible application of the branch profits tax in the case of foreign
corporations. The purchaser of the common shares would be required to withhold
and remit to the IRS 10% of the purchase price.

         OTHER TAX CONSIDERATIONS

         CLINTON ADMINISTRATION PROPOSAL. The Clinton Administration's fiscal
year 2001 budget proposal was announced on February 1, 2000. One part of the
proposed budget would amend the tax rules relating to the distribution of a
REIT's income. Under current law, a REIT is required to distribute




                                     PART I

at least 85% of its ordinary income and 95% of its capital gains during a
taxable year in order to avoid a 4% excise tax on the undistributed amount.
Under the Clinton Administration proposal, a REIT would be required to
distribute 98% of both ordinary income and capital gain net income to avoid the
excise tax. If this proposal were enacted, it would be effective for calendar
years beginning after December 31, 2000.

         As in previous Clinton Administration proposals, the administration
proposes a "closely held REIT" ownership test, under which no "person" (i.e., a
corporation, partnership or trust, including a pension or profit sharing trust)
could own stock of a REIT possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting
power of all classes of voting stock or 50% or more of the total value of shares
of all classes of stock. This 2001 proposal contains an exception for REIT's
owning more than 50% of another REIT. Further, there is a newly proposed
"limited look-through rule" for partnerships that own REIT's. There is no
exception for publicly traded REIT's. This proposal, if enacted, would be
effective for entities electing REIT status for taxable years beginning on or
after the date of first committee action (an entity that has elected REIT status
prior to this date will avoid these restrictions so long as it has sufficient
business assets or activities as of such date). It is presently uncertain
whether these REIT proposals, or any other proposals regarding REIT's, will be
enacted.

         OUR MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND OTHER SUBSIDIARIES. A small portion of the
cash to be used by the Operating Partnership to fund distributions to us is
expected to come from payments of dividends on non-voting stock of management
companies and other companies held by the Operating Partnership. These companies
pay federal and state income tax at the full applicable corporate rates. They
will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but we cannot guarantee
whether or the extent to, which measures taken to minimize these taxes, will be
successful. To the extent that these companies are required to pay taxes, the
cash available for distribution from these management companies by us to
shareholders will be reduced accordingly.

         STATE AND LOCAL TAXES. We and our shareholders may be subject to state
or local taxation in various jurisdictions, including those in which it or they
transact business or reside. The state and local tax treatment of us and our
shareholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequence discussed
above. Consequently, prospective shareholders should consult their own tax
advisors regarding the effect of state and local tax laws on an investment in
common shares.




                                     PART I

ITEM 2.  THE PROPERTIES

         As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned or had interests in a
portfolio of 1,062 multifamily Properties located in 35 states containing
225,708 apartment units. The Company has:



         Tenant leases are generally year-to-year and require security deposits.
The garden-style properties are generally defined as properties with two and/or
three floors while the mid-rise/high-rise properties are defined as properties
greater than three floors. These two property types typically provide residents
with amenities, which may include a clubhouse, swimming pool, laundry facilities
and cable television access. Certain of these properties offer additional
amenities such as saunas, whirlpools, spas, sports courts and exercise rooms.
The ranch-style properties, which are defined as single story properties,
generally do not provide additional amenities for its residents.

         It is management's role to monitor compliance with Property policies
and to provide preventive maintenance of the Properties including common areas,
facilities and amenities. The Company holds periodic meetings of its Property
management personnel for training and implementation of the Company's
strategies. The Company believes that, due in part to this strategy, the
Properties historically have had high occupancy rates.

         The distribution of the Properties throughout the United States
reflects the Company's belief that geographic diversification helps insulate the
portfolio from regional and economic influences. At the same time, the Company
has sought to create clusters of Properties within each of its primary markets
in order to achieve economies of scale in management and operation; however, the
Company may acquire additional multifamily properties located anywhere in the
United States.

         The Company beneficially owns fee simple title to 976 of the 983
controlled properties and holds a 99-year leasehold interest with respect to
one Property (Mallgate). In addition, with respect to two Properties, the
Company owns the debt collateralized by such Properties and with respect to
four Properties, the Company owns an interest in the debt collateralized by
the Properties. The remaining 79 properties represent investments in
partnership interests and/or subordinated mortgages containing 11,648 units.

         Direct fee simple title for certain of the Properties is owned by
single-purpose nominee corporations, LLC's or land trusts that engage in no
business other than holding title to the Property for the benefit of the
Company. Holding title in such a manner is expected to make it less costly to
transfer such Property in the future in the event of a sale and should
facilitate financing, since lenders often require title to a Property to be held
in a single purpose entity in order to isolate that Property from potential
liabilities of other Properties. Direct fee simple title for certain other
Properties is owned by a single LLC.

         The Company also leases (under operating leases) various management,
regional and corporate offices throughout the United States. See Item 1 for the
locations of these offices.

         The following table sets forth certain information by type and by state
relating to the Properties owned by the Company or in which the Company had a
direct equity or mortgage interest at December 31, 1999.





                                     PART I







                                     PART I







                                     PART I


The properties currently under development (see discussion in Item 7) are
included in the following table.



         (1)  The Company's funding of Lincoln Property Company Joint Venture
              and Legacy Partners Joint Venture Projects is limited to 25% of
              the total development cost.

         (2)  Town Center II was substantially completed and acquired on
              December 22, 1999 and is included in the outstanding property and
              unit counts as of that date.

         (3)  Estimated development cost does not include the cost of land
              previously acquired by the Company.





                                     PART I

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Only ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, which is
not deemed material, was initiated during the year ended December 31, 1999. As
of December 31, 1999, the Company does not believe there is any other litigation
threatened against the Company other than routine litigation arising out of the
ordinary course of business, some of which is expected to be covered by
liability insurance, none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect
on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         None.






                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

         The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and
low sales prices for and the distributions paid on the Company's Common Shares
which trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol EQR.





         In addition, on February 17, 2000, the Company declared a $0.76
distribution per Common Share payable on April 14, 2000 to shareholders of
record on March 20, 2000.

         The number of beneficial holders of Common Shares at March 1, 2000, was
approximately 61,000. The number of outstanding Common Shares as of March 1,
2000 was 127,911,989.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The following table sets forth selected financial and operating
information on a historical basis for the Company. The following information
should be read in conjunction with all of the financial statements and notes
thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The historical operating and
balance sheet data for the year ended December 31, 1995 have been derived from
the historical Financial Statements of the Company. The historical operating and
balance sheet data for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996
have been derived from the historical Financial Statements of the Company
audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors. Certain capitalized terms as
used herein, are defined in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.




                                     PART II








                                     PART II


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (CONSOLIDATED HISTORICAL (CONTINUED))

(1)      Includes approximately $18.0 million and $96.3 million of construction
         in progress as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(2)      Totals exclude properties which the Company had investments in
         partnership interests and/or subordinated mortgages. As of December 31,
         1999, this represented 79 properties containing 11,648 units. As of
         December 31, 1998, this represented 27 properties containing 5,193
         units. As of December 31, 1997, this represented 26 properties
         containing 5,267 units.

(3)      The Company generally considers funds from operations ("FFO") to be one
         measure of the performance of real estate companies, including an
         equity REIT. The definition of FFO adopted in March 1995 by the Board
         of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment
         Trusts ("NAREIT") defines FFO as net income (loss) (computed in
         accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP")),
         excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and sales of
         property, plus depreciation on real estate assets, and after
         adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
         Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are
         calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company believes that
         FFO is helpful to investors as a measure of the performance of an
         equity REIT because, along with cash flows from operating activities,
         financing activities and investing activities, it provides investors an
         understanding of the ability of the Company to incur and service debt
         and to make capital expenditures. FFO, in and of itself, does not
         represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with
         GAAP and therefore should not be considered an alternative to net
         income as an indication of the Company's performance or to net cash
         flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP as a measure of
         liquidity and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund
         cash needs. The Company's calculation of FFO represents net income
         available to Common Shares, excluding gains on dispositions of
         properties, gains on early extinguishment of debt, and write-off of
         unamortized costs on refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real estate
         assets, income allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of
         deferred financing costs related to the Predecessor Business. The
         Company's calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for
         calculating FFO utilized by other REIT's and, accordingly, may not be
         comparable to such other REIT's. The Company's calculation of FFO for
         1995 has been restated to reflect the effects of the definition as
         mentioned above. The Company will adopt, effective January 1, 2000,
         NAREIT's updated recommended definition of FFO as approved in the
         fourth quarter of 1999.






                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7.  OVERVIEW

         The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and
financial condition of the Company should be read in connection with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's
ability to control the Operating Partnership, the Management Partnerships and
Management Companies, the Financing Partnerships, the LLC's and certain other
entities, each entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial
reporting purposes. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1999.

         Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as Item 1 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words
"believes", "expects" and "anticipates" and other similar expressions which are
predictions of or indicate future events and trends and which do not relate
solely to historical matters identify forward-looking statements. Such
forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could
cause actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to differ
materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that might
cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the following:

         - alternative sources of capital to the Company are higher than
           anticipated;

         - occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by local
           economic and market conditions, which are beyond the Company's
           control; and

         - additional factors as discussed in Part I of the Annual Report on
           Form 10-K.

         Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company
undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these
forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances
after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The acquired properties are presented in the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company from the date of each acquisition or the closing dates
of the Mergers. The following table summarizes the number of Acquired and
Disposed Properties and related units for the prior three years:







                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

         In addition, during the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company
also sold its entire interest in six MRY joint venture properties (to MRYP
Spinco) containing 1,297 units for approximately $54.1 million.

         The Company's overall results of operations for the year ended December
31, 1999 and 1998 have been significantly impacted by the Company's acquisition
and disposition activity. The significant changes in rental revenues, property
and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, depreciation expense,
property management and interest expense can all primarily be attributed to the
acquisition of the 1998 Acquired Properties and the 1999 Acquired Properties,
partially offset by the disposition of the 1998 Disposed Properties and the 1999
Disposed Properties. The impact of the 1998 Acquired Properties, the 1999
Acquired Properties, the 1998 Disposed Properties and the 1999 Disposed
Properties is discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

         Properties that the Company owned for all of both 1999 and 1998 (the
"1999 Same Store Properties"), which represented 121,490 units, impacted the
Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of
both 1998 and 1997 (the "1998 Same Store Properties"), which represented 63,243
units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 1999 Same
Store Properties and 1998 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following
paragraphs.

         COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 TO THE YEAR ENDED
         DECEMBER 31, 1998

         For the year ended December 31, 1999, income before gain on disposition
of properties, net, extraordinary item and allocation to Minority Interests
increased by $75.3 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 1998.
This increase was primarily due to the acquisition of the 1998 Acquired
Properties and the 1999 Acquired Properties as well as increases in rental
revenues net of increases in property and maintenance expenses, real estate
taxes and insurance, property management expenses, depreciation expense,
interest expense and general and administrative expenses.

         In regard to the 1999 Same Store Properties, total revenues increased
by approximately $35.8 million to $1.1 billion or 3.48% primarily as a result of
higher rental rates charged to new tenants and tenant renewals and an increase
in income from billing tenants for their share of utility costs as well as other
ancillary services provided to tenants. Overall, property operating expenses,
which include property and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance and an
allocation of property management expenses, increased approximately $0.1 million
or 0.03%. This increase was primarily the result of higher expenses for on-site
compensation costs and an increase in real estate taxes on certain properties,
but was partially offset by lower leasing and advertising, administrative,
maintenance and property management costs.

         Property management represents expenses associated with the
self-management of the Company's Properties. These expenses increased by
approximately $8.5 million primarily due to the continued expansion of the
Company's property management business. During 1999, the Company assumed a
management office in Reynoldsburg, Ohio related to the LFT Merger.

         Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management expenses
are associated with the management of properties not owned by the Company that
are managed for affiliates. These revenues and expenses decreased due to the
Company acquiring certain of these properties that were formerly fee-managed.




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

         Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $91.9 million. This increase was primarily the result
of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which increased
by $1.3 billion. However, the Company's effective interest costs decreased from
7.10% for the year ended December 31, 1998 to 7.05% for the year ended December
31, 1999.

         General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $1.7 million between the periods under
comparison. This increase was primarily due to the addition of corporate
personnel. However, by gaining certain economies of scale with a much larger
operation these expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 1.27% for the
year ended December 31, 1999 compared to 1.54% of total revenues for the year
ended December 31, 1998.

      COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO THE YEAR ENDED
      DECEMBER 31, 1997

         For the year ended December 31, 1998, income before gain on disposition
of properties, net, extraordinary item and allocation to Minority Interests
increased by $79 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 1997. This
increase was primarily due to increases in rental revenues net of increases in
property and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, property
management expenses, depreciation expense, interest expense and general and
administrative expenses.

         In regard to the 1998 Same Store Properties rental income increased by
approximately $23.1 million to $527.3 million or 4.59% primarily as a result of
higher rental rates charged to new tenants and tenant renewals, a 1.01% increase
in average economic occupancy levels and an increase in income from billing
tenants for their share of utility costs. Overall, property operating expenses,
which include property and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance and an
allocation of property management expenses, increased approximately $5.3 million
or 2.65%. This increase was primarily the result of higher compensation costs,
leasing and advertising costs, utilities, and maintenance charges.

         Property management represents expenses associated with the
self-management of the Company's Properties. These expenses increased by
approximately $26.3 million primarily due to the continued expansion of the
Company's property management business. The 1998 amounts include a full year
effect of the various offices the Company opened in 1997, including the
Scottsdale Office, which had a significant expansion resulting from the EWR
Merger. During 1998, the Company opened new management offices in Jacksonville
and Orlando, Florida and the Company assumed a management office in Augusta,
Georgia related to the MRY Merger.

         Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management expenses
are associated with the management of properties not owned by the Company that
are managed for affiliates. These net revenues decreased due to the disposition
of certain of these properties, resulting in the Company no longer providing fee
and asset management services to such properties.

         Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $125.5 million. This increase was primarily the
result of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which
increased by $1.9 billion. However, the Company's effective interest costs
decreased from 7.50% for the year ended December 31, 1997 to 7.10% for the year
ended December 31, 1998.




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)



         General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $5.8 million between the periods under
comparison. This increase was primarily due to the addition of corporate
personnel in the Company's Human Resources, Accounting, Legal and Management
Information Systems groups, as well as higher compensation costs, shareholder
reporting costs and professional fees. However, by gaining certain economies of
scale with a much larger operation these expenses as a percentage of total
revenues were 1.54% for the year ended December 31, 1998 compared to 1.98% of
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1997.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

         As of January 1, 1999, the Company had approximately $4 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $330 million available on its lines of credit, of which
$12 million was restricted. After taking into effect the various transactions
discussed in the following paragraphs, the Company's cash and cash equivalents
balance at December 31, 1999 was approximately $29.1 million and the amount
available on the Company's line of credit was $400 million, of which $65.8
million was restricted. The following discussion also explains the changes in
net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used for investing
activities and net cash provided by (used for) financing activities, all of
which are presented in the Company's Statements of Cash Flows.

         Part of the Company's strategy in funding the purchase of multifamily
properties, funding its Properties in the development stage and the funding of
the Company's investment in two joint ventures with multifamily real estate
developers is to utilize its line of credit and to subsequently repay the line
of credit from the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or the
disposition of Properties. Utilizing this strategy during 1999, the Company:

     - issued the June 2004 Notes and received net proceeds of $298.0 million;

     - refinanced seven Properties and received additional proceeds of $78.5
       million;

     - obtained new mortgage financing on eleven previously unencumbered
       properties and received net proceeds of $126.5 million;

     - disposed of forty-two properties (including the sale of the Company's
       interest in six MRY joint venture properties) and received net proceeds
       of $383 million;

     - issued approximately 1.2 million Common Shares and received net proceeds
       of $38.5 million; and

     - issued 800,000 8.00% Series A Cumulative Convertible Redeemable
       Preference Interests of EQR-Mosaic, L.L.C. and received net proceeds of
       $39 million.

All of these proceeds were utilized to either:

     - purchase additional properties;

     - provide funding for properties in the development stage; and/or

     - repay the line of credit and mortgage indebtedness on certain Properties.

         With respect to the 1999 Acquired Properties, the Company assumed
and/or entered into new mortgage indebtedness of approximately $69.9 million,
issued OP Units with a value of $25.2 million and issued Junior Convertible
Preference Units with a value of $3.0 million. The total purchase price of the
1999 Acquired Properties was approximately $1.4 billion.







                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

         Subsequent to December 31, 1999 and through March 3, 2000, the Company
acquired one additional property containing 178 units for a total purchase price
of approximately $10.3 million.

         Subsequent to December 31, 1999 and through March 3, 2000, the Company
disposed of six properties for a total sales price of $46.7 million. These
proceeds will be utilized to purchase additional properties. The Company
anticipates that it will continue to sell certain Properties in the portfolio.

         On March 3, 2000, Lexford Properties, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Operating Partnership, issued 1.1 million units of 8.50% Series B
Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preference Units with an equity value of $55.0
million. Lexford Properties, L.P. received $53.6 million in net proceeds from
this transaction. The liquidation value of these units is $50 per unit. The 1.1
million units are exchangeable into 1.1 million shares of 8.50% Series M-1
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest of the Company.
The Series M-1 Preferred Shares are not convertible to EQR Common Shares.
Dividends for the Series B Preference Units or the Series M-1 Preferred Shares
are payable quarterly at the rate of $4.25 per unit/share per year. The net
proceeds received from this transaction will be used for scheduled mortgage and
line of credit repayments.

         In regard to the joint venture agreements with two multifamily
residential real estate developers during the year ended December 31, 1999, the
Company funded a total of $88.6 million and during 2000 the Company expects to
fund approximately $32.7 million in connection with these agreements. In
connection with the first agreement, the Company has an obligation to fund up to
an additional $20 million to guarantee third party construction financing.

         In regard to certain other properties that were under development
and/or expansion during the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company funded
$47.5 million. During 2000, the Company expects to fund $44.9 million related to
the continued development and/or expansion of as many as three Properties.

         In regard to certain properties that were under earnout/development
agreements, during the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company funded the
following:

         - $17.2 million relating to the acquisition of Copper Canyon
           Apartments, which included a $1.0 million earnout payment to the
           developer;

         - $24.9 million relating to the acquisition of Skyview Apartments,
           which included a $3.1 million earnout payment to the developer; and

         - $18.3 million relating to the acquisition of Rosecliff Apartments.

         Subsequent to December 31, 1999, the Company funded $2.3 million for an
initial earnout payment to the developer of Rosecliff Apartments. During 2000,
the Company expects to fund $33.4 million related to the continued
earnout/development of one Property.

         In May 1999, the Company repaid its 1999 Notes that matured on May 15,
1999. The $125 million repayment was initially funded from borrowings under the
Company's lines of credit.

         In November 1999, the Company repaid the 1999-A Notes that matured on
November 24, 1999. The $25 million repayment was initially funded from
borrowings under the Company's line of credit.




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)


         During 1999, the Company repaid approximately $60.8 million of mortgage
indebtedness on 31 Properties. These repayments were funded from the Company's
line of credit and/or certain proceeds from dispositions.

         In addition, the Company refinanced the debt on six existing properties
totaling $45.0 million with new mortgage indebtedness totaling $65.7 million.

         As of December 31, 1999, the Company had total indebtedness of
approximately $5.5 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $2.9 billion
(including premiums of $2.1 million), of which $838 million represented
tax-exempt bond indebtedness, and unsecured debt of $2.3 billion (including net
discounts and premiums in the amount of $2.5 million), of which $127.8 million
represented tax-exempt bond indebtedness.

         Subsequent to December 31, 1999, the Company settled on a $100 million
interest rate protection agreement and received approximately $7.0 million in
connection therewith.

         In the second quarter of 2000, the Company anticipates repaying
mortgage indebtedness of approximately $85 million assumed in connection with
the LFT Merger. These repayments will also be primarily funded from additional
borrowings under the line of credit and/or additional mortgage borrowings.

         The Company has, from time to time, entered into interest rate
protection agreements (financial instruments) to reduce the potential impact of
increases in interest rates but believes it has limited exposure to the extent
of non-performance by the counterparties of each protection agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance. No such financial instrument has been used for
trading purposes.

         In August 1996, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's 2026 Notes.
The agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a locked in
treasury rate of 7.57%.

         In July 1997, the Company entered into two interest rate protection
agreements to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's 2001 Notes
and 2003 Notes. One agreement was for a notional amount of $100 million with a
locked in treasury rate of 6.134%. The second agreement was for a notional
amount of $75 million with a locked in treasury rate of 6.287%.

         In April 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's 2015 Notes.
The agreement was for a notional amount of $300 million with a locked in
treasury rate of 6.63%.

         In May 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Evans Withycombe
Financing Limited Partnership indebtedness to within a range of 5.6% to 6.0%
upon its refinancing. The agreement was for a notional amount of $131 million
with a settlement date of August 2001. There was no initial cost to the Company
for entering into this agreement.

         In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's planned
financing in the fourth quarter of 1998. This agreement was




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)


canceled in November at a cost of approximately $3.7 million. This cost is
being amortized over the life of the financing for the 15 previously
unencumbered Properties that occurred in November 1998.

         In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
agreement that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the
Operating Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of
3.65125%. This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a
termination date of August 2003.

         In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
agreement that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the
Operating Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of
3.683%. This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a
termination date of August 2005.

         The fair value of these instruments, discussed above, as of December
31, 1999 approximates their carrying or contract values.

         The Company has a policy of capitalizing expenditures made for new
assets, including newly acquired properties and the costs associated with
placing these assets into service. Expenditures for improvements and renovations
that significantly enhance the value of existing assets or substantially extend
the useful life of an asset are also capitalized. Expenditures for in-the-unit
replacement-type items such as appliances, draperies, carpeting and floor
coverings, mechanical equipment and certain furniture and fixtures is also
capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to
operations as incurred. With respect to acquired properties, the Company has
determined that it generally spends $1,000 per unit during its first three years
of ownership to fully improve and enhance these properties to meet the Company's
standards. In regard to replacement-type items described above, the Company
generally expects to spend $250 per unit on an annual recurring basis.

         During the year ended December 31, 1999, total capital expenditures for
the Company approximated $141.9 million. Of this amount, approximately $34.5
million, or $427 per unit, related to capital improvements and major repairs for
the 1997, 1998 and 1999 Acquired Properties. Capital improvements and major
repairs for all of the Company's pre-EQR IPO properties and 1993, 1994, 1995 and
1996 Acquired Properties approximated $40.8 million, or $362 per unit. Capital
spent for replacement-type items approximated $53.5 million, or $277 per unit.
In addition, approximately $5.9 million was spent on four specific assets
related to major renovations and repositioning of these assets. Also included in
total capital expenditures was approximately $7.2 million expended for non-real
estate additions such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture
and fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company's property management
offices and its corporate headquarters. Such capital expenditures were primarily
funded from working capital reserves and from net cash provided by operating
activities. Total capital expenditures for 2000 are budgeted to be approximately
$110.0 million for all Properties.

         Minority Interests as of December 31, 1999 increased by $25.6 million
when compared to December 31, 1998. The primary factors that impacted this
account during the year were:

         - distributions declared to Minority Interests, which amounted to $37.4
           million for 1999 (excluding preference unit/interest distributions);

         - the allocation of income from operations in the amount of $29.5
           million;

         - the conversion of OP Units into Common Shares; and

         - the issuance of Common Shares, OP Units, Preference Units and
           Preference Interests during 1999.




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)


         Total distributions paid in 1999 amounted to $514.9 million, which
included certain distributions declared in the fourth quarters of 1998 and 1999.
The Company paid a $0.76 per Common Share distribution on December 31, 1999 for
the quarter ended December 31, 1999 to Common Shareholders and Minority Interest
holders of record as of December 20, 1999.

         The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements,
including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing Properties
and certain scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, generally
through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and
borrowings under its line of credit. The Company considers its cash provided by
operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments
of distributions. The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity
requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities,
property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities and
capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured notes and equity
securities including additional OP Units as well as from undistributed FFO and
proceeds received from the disposition of certain Properties. In addition, the
Company has certain uncollateralized Properties available for additional
mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable
to the Company or the cost of alternative sources of capital to the Company is
too high.

         On August 12, 1999 the Company obtained a new three year $700 million
unsecured revolving credit facility, with Bank of America Securities LLC and
Chase Securities Inc. acting as joint lead arrangers. The new line of credit
replaced the Company's $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility, as well
as the $120 million unsecured revolving credit facility which the Company
assumed in the MRY Merger. The prior existing revolving credit facilities were
repaid in full and terminated upon the closing of the new facility. This new
credit facility matures in August 2002 and will be used to fund property
acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short term
liquidity requirements. Advances under the credit facility bear interest at
variable rates based upon LIBOR at various interest periods, plus a certain
spread dependent upon the Company's credit rating. As of March 7, 2000, $110
million was outstanding under this new facility bearing interest at a weighted
average rate of 6.28%.

         Pursuant to the LFT Merger, the Company assumed a line of credit that
had an outstanding balance of approximately $26.4 million. On October 1, 1999,
the Company repaid the outstanding balance and terminated this facility.

         In connection with the Wellsford Merger, the Company has provided a
$14.8 million credit enhancement with respect to certain tax-exempt bonds issued
to finance certain public improvements at a multifamily development project.
Pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement with Wellsford Real
Properties, Inc. ("WRP Newco"), the Company has agreed to purchase up to
1,000,000 shares of WRP Newco Series A Preferred at $25.00 per share on a
standby basis over a three-year period ending on May 30, 2000. These preferred
shares would be convertible to WRP Newco common shares under certain
circumstances. As of December 31, 1999, no shares of WRP Newco Series A
Preferred had been acquired by the Company. The Company expects to fund this $25
million investment in April 2000.

         In connection with the MRY Merger, the Company extended a $25 million,
one year, non-revolving loan to MRYP Spinco pursuant to a Senior Debt Agreement.
On June 24, 1999, MRYP Spinco repaid the entire outstanding Senior Note balance
of $18.3 million and there is no further obligation by either party in
connection with this agreement.

         Also, in connection with the MRY Merger, the Company entered into six
joint venture




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)


agreements with MRYP Spinco. The Company contributed six properties with an
initial value of $52.7 million in return for an ownership interest in each joint
venture. On August 23, 1999, the Company sold its entire interest in these six
properties to MRYP Spinco and received $54.1 million. There is no further
obligation by either party in connection with these agreements.

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

         As of January 1, 1998, the Company had approximately $33.3 million of
cash and cash equivalents and $265 million available on its line of credit of
which $24.7 million was restricted. After taking into effect the various
transactions discussed in the following paragraphs, cash and cash equivalents at
December 31, 1998 were approximately $4 million and the amounts available on the
Company's lines of credit were $330 million of which $12 million was restricted.
The following discussion also explains the changes in net cash provided by
operating activities, net cash (used for) investing activities and net cash
provided by financing activities, all of which are presented in the Company's
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

         Part of the Company's strategy in funding the purchase of multifamily
properties, funding its Properties in the development stage and the funding of
the Company's investment in a joint venture with a multifamily real estate
developer, excluding those Properties acquired through the Mergers, is to
utilize its line of credit and to subsequently repay the line of credit from the
issuance of additional equity or debt securities or the disposition of
Properties. Utilizing this strategy during 1998 the Company:

         - issued a total of approximately 8.5 million Common Shares through
           various offerings and received total net proceeds of $412.5 million;

         - issued the 2015 Notes, the August 2003 Notes and the 2000 Notes and
           received net proceeds of $542.3 million;

         - mortgaged fifteen previously unencumbered Properties and received
           net proceeds of $223.5 million; and

         - disposed of twenty properties, which generated net proceeds of
           approximately $177 million.

All of these proceeds were utilized to either:

         - purchase additional properties;

         - provide funding for properties in the development stage; and/or

         - repay the lines of credit and mortgage indebtedness on certain
           Properties.

         With respect to the 1998 Acquired Properties, the Company issued 21.8
million Common Shares having a value of $1.0 billion and issued the following
preferred shares having a combined liquidation value of $369.1 million:

         - Series H Preferred Shares;

         - Series I Preferred Shares;

         - Series J Preferred Shares;

         - Series K Preferred Shares; and

         - Series L Preferred Shares.

         The Company also assumed mortgage indebtedness, unsecured notes and a
line of credit of approximately $1.2 billion, issued OP Units having a value of
approximately $205.2 million and issued




                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)


Junior Convertible Preference Units having a value of approximately $4.8
million. The cash portion of these acquisitions were primarily funded from
amounts drawn on the Company's lines of credit and proceeds received in
connection with the transactions mentioned in the previous paragraphs.

         In December 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement
with a multifamily residential real estate developer whereby the Company will
make investments in a limited partnership to fund its portion of the project
cost. During 1998, the Company funded a total of $23.9 million in connection
with this agreement.

         In regards to certain other properties that were under development
and/or expansion in 1998, the Company funded $31.6 million.

         In regards to certain properties that were under earnout/development
agreements in 1998, no amounts were funded.

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company had total indebtedness of
approximately $4.7 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $2.3 billion
(including premiums of $4.5 million), of which $878.3 million represented
tax-exempt bond indebtedness, and unsecured debt of $2.3 billion (net of a $5.3
million discount), of which $35.6 million represented tax-exempt bond
indebtedness. During the year, the Company repaid an aggregate of $63.8 million
of mortgage indebtedness on nine of its Properties. These repayments were funded
from the Company's line of credit or from proceeds received from the various
capital transactions mentioned in the previous paragraphs.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

         In prior years, the Company discussed the nature and progress of its
plans to become Year 2000 ready. In late 1999, the Company completed its
remediation and testing of systems. As a result of those planning and
implementation efforts, the Company experienced no significant disruptions in
mission critical information technology and non-information technology systems
and believes those systems successfully responded to the Year 2000 date change.
The Company expensed approximately $184,000 and $700,000 during 1999 and 1998,
respectively, in connection with remediating its systems. The Company is not
aware of any material problems resulting from Year 2000 issues, either with its
products, its internal systems, or the products and services of third parties.
The Company will continue to monitor its mission critical computer applications
and those of its suppliers and vendors throughout the year 2000 to ensure that
any latent Year 2000 matters that may arise are addressed promptly.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

         Commencing in 1996, the Company implemented the definition of FFO
adopted by the Board of Governors of NAREIT in March 1995. The definition
primarily eliminates the amortization of deferring financing costs and
depreciation of non-real estate assets as items added back to net income when
calculating FFO.





                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

         The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the
performance of real estate companies. The resolution adopted by the Board of
Governors of NAREIT defines FFO as net income (loss) (computed in accordance
with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and sales of
property, plus depreciation on real estate assets, and after adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO
on the same basis. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a
measure of the performance of a real estate company because, along with cash
flows from operating activities, financing activities and investing
activities, it provides investors an understanding of the ability of the
Company to incur and service debt and to make capital expenditures. FFO in
and of itself does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered an alternative to
net income as an indication of the Company's performance or to net cash flows
from operating activities as determined by GAAP as a measure of liquidity and
is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. The
Company's calculation of FFO represents net income available to Common
Shares, excluding gains on dispositions of properties and gains/losses on
early extinguishment of debt, plus depreciation on real estate assets, income
allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of deferred financing costs
related to the Predecessor Business. The Company's calculation of FFO may
differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other real estate
companies and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate
companies.

         The Company will adopt, effective January 1, 2000, NAREIT's updated
recommended definition of FFO as approved in the fourth quarter of 1999.

         For the year ended December 31, 1999, FFO increased $160.8 million
representing a 35% increase when compared to the year ended December 31, 1998.
For the year ended December 31, 1998, FFO increased by $188.1 million
representing a 69.5% increase when compared to the year ended December 31, 1997.

         The following is a reconciliation of net income available to Common
Shares to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 (amounts are in thousands):


*   Includes $1,009,000 and $183,000 related to the Company's share of
    depreciation from unconsolidated joint ventures and limited partnerships for
    the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.





                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

         The Company's future earnings, cash flows and fair values relevant to
financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market rates. Market risk is
the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. The
Company manages its market risk by matching projected cash inflows from
operating properties, financing activities and investing activities with
projected cash outflows to fund debt payments, acquisitions, capital
expenditures, distributions and other cash requirements. The Company also
utilizes certain derivative financial instruments to limit market risk. Interest
rate protection agreements are used to convert floating rate debt to a fixed
rate basis. Derivatives are used for hedging purposes rather than speculation.
The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes.

         The Company has total outstanding debt of approximately $5.5 billion at
December 31, 1999, of which approximately $700.9 million, or 12.8% is floating
rate debt, including the effects of any interest rate protection agreements. If
market rates of interest on the Company's floating rate debt increase by 55
basis points (a 10% increase), the increase in interest expense on the Company's
floating rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by
approximately $3.9 million. If market rates of interest on the Company's
floating rate debt decrease by 55 basis points (a 10% decrease), the decrease in
interest expense on the Company's floating rate debt would increase future
earnings and cash flows by approximately $3.9 million.

         These amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical
interest rates and equity prices on the Company's financial instruments. These
analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic
activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of a
change of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to further
mitigate its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the
specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis
assumes no changes in the Company's financial structure.







                                     PART II



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this Form
10-K.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.






                                    PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 AND 13.

TRUSTEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT, EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION,
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIP AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         The information required by Item 10, Item 11, Item 12 and Item 13 are
incorporated by reference to, and will be contained in, the Company's definitive
proxy statement, which the Company anticipates will be filed no later than March
31, 2000, and thus these items have been omitted in accordance with General
Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.







                                     PART IV



     ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)

     (1 & 2) See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 of
             this Form 10-K.

     (3) Exhibits:

2.1#              Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Wellsford Residential Property Trust
                  dated as of January 16, 1997.

2.2##             Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Wellsford Residential Property Trust.

2.3###            Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc. dated
                  as of August 27, 1997.

2.4####           Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc.

2.5^              Agreement and Plan of Merger and First Amendment Thereto by
                  and between Equity Residential Properties Trust and Merry Land
                  & Investment Company, Inc. dated as of July 8, 1998 and
                  September 4, 1998, respectively.

2.6^^             Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Merry Land & Investment Company, Inc.

2.7^^^            Agreement and Plan of Merger between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Lexford Residential Trust dated as of
                  June 30, 1999.

2.8^^^^           Articles of Merger by and between Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust and Lexford Residential Trust.

3.1+              Second Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Equity
                  Residential Properties Trust dated May 30, 1997.

3.2++             Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of Equity Residential
                  Properties Trust.

4.1*              Indenture, dated as of May 16, 1994, by and among the
                  Operating Partnership, as obligor, the Company, as guarantor
                  and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee in
                  connection with 8 1/2% senior notes due May 15, 1999.

4.2*              Indenture, dated October 1, 1994, between the Operating
                  Partnership, as obligor and The First National Bank of
                  Chicago, as trustee.

10.1**            Fifth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of
                  ERP Operating Limited Partnership.

10.2***           Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential
                  Properties Management Limited Partnership.

10.3****          Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential
                  Properties Management Limited Partnership II.

10.4***           Noncompetition Agreement (Zell).

10.5***           Noncompetition Agreement (Crocker).

10.6***           Noncompetition Agreement (Spector).

10.7***           Form of Noncompetition Agreement (other officers).

10.8***           Services Agreement between Equity Residential Properties Trust
                  and Equity Group Investments, Inc.

10.9***           Form of Property Management Agreement (REIT properties).

10.10*            Form of Property Management Agreement (Non-REIT properties).

10.11+++          Amended and Restated Master Reimbursement Agreement, dated as
                  of November 1, 1996 by and between Federal National Mortgage
                  Association and EQR-Bond Partnership.

10.12             Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 12, 1999 among
                  the Operating Partnership, the Banks listed therein, Bank of
                  America, National Association, as administrative agent, The
                  Chase Manhattan Bank, as syndication agent, Morgan Guaranty
                  Trust Company of New York, as documentation agent, Bank of
                  America Securities LLC, as joint lead arranger, and Chase
                  Securities Inc., as joint lead arranger.




                                     PART IV

10.13             First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated November
                  10, 1999 between the Operating Partnership, Bank of America,
                  National Association, as administrative agent, The Chase
                  Manhattan Bank, as syndication agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust
                  Company of New York, as documentation agent and the Banks
                  listed as signatories thereto.

10.14####         Employment Agreement dated August 27, 1997 between Equity
                  Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership and
                  Richard G. Berry.

10.15++++         Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
                  Partnership of Evans Withycombe Residential, LP.

10.16             Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Lexford
                  Properties, L.P.

12                Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21                List of Subsidiaries of Equity Residential Properties Trust

23.1              Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

24.1              Power of Attorney for James D. Harper, Jr. dated February 29,

24.2              Power of Attorney for Errol R. Halperin dated February 29,

24.3              Power of Attorney for John W. Alexander dated March 13, 2000

24.4              Power of Attorney for B. Joseph White dated March 9, 2000

24.5              Power of Attorney for Henry H. Goldberg dated March 1, 2000

24.6              Power of Attorney for Jeffrey H. Lynford dated March 1, 2000

24.7              Power of Attorney for Edward Lowenthal dated March 2, 2000

24.8              Power of Attorney for Stephen O. Evans dated March 2, 2000

24.9              Power of Attorney for Boone A. Knox dated February 29, 2000

24.10             Power of Attorney for Michael N. Thompson dated March 6, 2000
________________________________

#                 Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated January
                  16, 1997, filed on January 17, 1997.

##                Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on
                  April 29, 1997.

###               Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated August
                  27, 1997, filed on August 29, 1997.

####              Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on
                  September 18, 1997.

^                 Included as Appendix A in the Company's Form S-4 filed on
                  September 14, 1998.

^^                Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on
                  September 14, 1998.

^^^               Included as Appendix A in the Company's Form S-4 filed on July
                  23, 1999.

^^^^              Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated October
                  1, 1999, filed on October 5, 1999.

+                 Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated May 30,
                  1997, filed on June 5, 1997.

++                Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
                  quarterly period ended June 30, 1999.

+++               Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1996.

++++              Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1997.

*                 Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form
                  10/A, dated December 12, 1994, File No. 0-24920, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

**                Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form
                  8-K/A dated July 23, 1998, filed on August 18, 1998.

***               Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-11 Registration
                  Statement, File No. 33-63158, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

****              Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994.




                                     PART IV

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

A Report on Form 8-K dated October 5, 1999, reporting the closing of the merger
between Equity Residential Properties Trust and Lexford Residential Trust.

A Report on Form 8-K dated December 3, 1999, disclosing additional financial
information of Lexford Residential Trust as of September 30, 1999.

(c)  Exhibits:
        See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules:
        See Index to Financial Statements attached hereto on page F-1 of this
Form 10-K.





                                     PART IV


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                            EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                  By:  /S/       DOUGLAS CROCKER II
      --------------                     --------------------------------------
                                                     Douglas Crocker II
                                            President, Chief Executive Officer,
                                              Trustee and *Attorney-in-Fact

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                  By:  /S/       DAVID J. NEITHERCUT
      --------------                     --------------------------------------
                                                     David J. Neithercut
                                                   Executive Vice President and
                                                     Chief Financial Officer

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                  By:  /S/        MICHAEL J. MCHUGH
      --------------                     --------------------------------------
                                                      Michael J. McHugh
                                     Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting
                                       Officer, Treasurer and *Attorney-in-fact

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/           SAMUEL ZELL
      ---------------                   ---------------------------------------
                                                        Samuel Zell
                                              Chairman of the Board of Trustees

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/           GERALD A. SPECTOR
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                        Gerald A. Spector
                                                Executive Vice President, Chief
                                                  Operating Officer and Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/           SHELI Z. ROSENBERG
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                        Sheli Z. Rosenberg
                                                              Trustee






                                     PART IV


                              SIGNATURES-CONTINUED

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                  By:  /S/         JAMES D. HARPER*
      --------------                     --------------------------------------
                                                       James D. Harper
                                                           Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                  By:  /S/         ERROL R. HALPERIN*
      --------------                     --------------------------------------
                                                       Errol R. Halperin
                                                            Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                  By:  /S/         JOHN W. ALEXANDER*
      --------------                     --------------------------------------
                                                       John W. Alexander
                                                            Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/          B. JOSEPH WHITE*
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                       B. Joseph White
                                                           Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/          HENRY H. GOLDBERG*
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                       Henry H. Goldberg
                                                            Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/          JEFFREY H. LYNFORD*
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                       Jeffrey H. Lynford
                                                             Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/          EDWARD LOWENTHAL*
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                       Edward Lowenthal
                                                            Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/          STEPHEN O. EVANS*
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                       Stephen O. Evans
                                                            Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                 By:  /S/          BOONE A. KNOX*
      --------------                    ---------------------------------------
                                                       Boone A. Knox
                                                           Trustee

Date: MARCH 13, 2000                By:  /S/           MICHAEL N. THOMPSON*
      --------------                   ----------------------------------------
                                                       Michael N. Thompson
                                                            Trustee

* By: /S/  MICHAEL J. MCHUGH OR DOUGLAS CROCKER II
      ----------------------------------------------------
                  Michael J. McHugh or Douglas Crocker II,
                     as Attorney-in-fact





                   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST






                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Equity Residential Properties Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity
Residential Properties Trust (the "Company") as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1999. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the Index at Item 14(a). These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equity
Residential Properties Trust at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 16, 2000
except for Note 23, as to which the date is
March 3, 2000




                                      F-2



                      EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                (Amounts in thousands except for share amounts)



                             SEE ACOMPANYING NOTES


                                      F-3



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                  (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)




                             SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES

                                      F-4



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)



                             SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES


                                      F-5



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)




                             SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES

                                      F-6




                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)





                             SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES



                                      F-7



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)





                             SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES


                                      F-8



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)



                             SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES

                                      F-9



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.       ORGANIZATION AND FORMATION OF THE COMPANY

         Equity Residential Properties Trust, formed in March 1993, ("EQR"), is
a self-administered and self-managed equity real estate investment trust
("REIT"). As used herein, the term "Company" means EQR, and its subsidiaries, as
the survivor of the mergers between EQR and each of Wellsford Residential
Property Trust ("Wellsford") (the "Wellsford Merger"), Evans Withycombe
Residential, Inc. ("EWR") (the "EWR Merger"), Merry Land & Investment Company,
Inc. ("MRY") (the "MRY Merger") and Lexford Residential Trust ("LFT") ("the LFT
Merger") (see Note 4). The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under
Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code 1986, as amended (the "Code").

         The Company is engaged in the acquisition, disposition, ownership,
management and operation of multifamily properties. As of December 31, 1999, the
Company owned or had interests in a portfolio of 1,062 multifamily properties
containing 225,708 apartment units of which it controlled a portfolio of 983
multifamily properties containing 214,060 apartment units (individually a
"Property" and collectively the "Properties"). The Company had an investment in
partnership interests (equity investments) and/or an investment in subordinated
mortgages collateralized by the remaining 79 Properties containing 11,648 units.
These properties are located in 35 states throughout the United States.

         The Company has formed a series of partnerships (the "Financing
Partnerships") which beneficially own certain Properties that may be encumbered
by mortgage indebtedness. In general, these are structured so that ERP Operating
Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), a subsidiary of EQR, owns a
1% limited partner interest and a 98% general partner interest in each, with the
remaining 1% general partner interest in each Financing Partnership owned by
various qualified REIT subsidiaries wholly owned by the Company (each a "QRS
Corporation"). Rental income from the Properties that are beneficially owned by
a Financing Partnership is used first to service the applicable mortgage debt
and pay other operating expenses and any excess is then distributed 1% to the
applicable QRS Corporation, as the general partner of such Financing
Partnership, and 99% to the Operating Partnership, as the sole 1% limited
partner and as the 98% general partner. The Company has also formed a series of
limited liability companies that own certain Properties (collectively, the
"LLCs"). The Operating Partnership is a 99% managing member of each LLC and a
QRS Corporation is a 1% member of each LLC.

2.       BASIS OF PRESENTATION

         The Wellsford Merger, the EWR Merger, the MRY Merger and the LFT Merger
(collectively, the "Mergers") were treated as purchases in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16. The fair value of the consideration
given by the Company in the Mergers was used as the valuation basis for each of
the combinations. The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of Wellsford
were recorded at their relative fair values as of May 30, 1997 (the "Wellsford
Closing Date"). The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of EWR were
recorded at their relative fair values as of December 23, 1997 (the "EWR Closing
Date"). The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of MRY were recorded at
their relative fair values as of October 19, 1998 (the "MRY Closing Date"). The
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of LFT were recorded at their
relative fair values as of October 1, 1999 (the "LFT Closing Date"). The
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include the
results of the Properties purchased through the Mergers from their respective
closing dates.

         Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either
through ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership, a series of
management limited partnerships and companies (collectively, the "Management
Partnerships" or the "Management Companies"), the Financing Partnerships, the
LLCs, and certain other entities, each such entity has been consolidated with
the Company for financial reporting


                                      F-10



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

purposes. In regard to the Management Companies, the Company does not have legal
control; however, these entities are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes, the effects of which are immaterial. Certain reclassifications have
been made to the prior year's financial statements in order to conform to the
current year presentation.

3.       SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(a)      REAL ESTATE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION

         Real estate is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation less an
adjustment, if any, for impairment. A land value is assigned based on the
purchase price if acquired separately or based on market research if acquired in
a merger or in a single or portfolio acquisition.

         For real estate properties to be disposed of, an impairment loss is
recognized when the fair value of the real estate, less the estimated cost to
sell, is less than the carrying amount of the real estate measured at the time
it is certain that the Company will sell the property. Real estate held for
disposition is reported at the lower of its carrying amount or its estimated
fair value, less its cost to sell.

         Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the assets. The Company uses a 30-year estimated life for
buildings and a five-year estimated life for initial furniture, fixtures and
equipment. Replacements inside a unit such as appliances and carpeting, are
depreciated over a five-year estimated life. Expenditures for ordinary
maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred and significant
renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the useful life of the
asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life, generally five to ten
years. Initial direct leasing costs are expensed as incurred as such expense
approximates the deferral and amortization of initial direct leasing costs over
the lease terms. Property sales or dispositions are recorded when title
transfers and sufficient consideration has been received by the Company. Upon
disposition, the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the
respective accounts. Any gain or loss on sale of disposition is recognized in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

         The Company classifies Properties under development and/or expansion
and properties in the lease up phase as construction in progress until
construction on the apartment community has been completed and all certificates
of occupancy permits have been obtained. The Company also classifies land
relating to construction in progress as land on its balance sheet. Land
associated with construction in progress was $18.5 million and $19.4 million as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(b)      CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

         The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and
investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased with
a maturity of three months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash
equivalents. The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial
institutions. The combined account balances at each institution periodically
exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance coverage,
and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on
deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. The Company believes that the risk
is not significant, as the Company does not anticipate their non-performance.

      (c)     DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS

         Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the
Company's line of credit,




                                      F-11


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


long-term financing and costs for certain interest rate protection agreements.
These costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt. Unamortized
financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date.
The accumulated amortization of such deferred financing costs was $11.1 million
and $8.2 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

      (d)     INTEREST RATE PROTECTION AGREEMENTS

         The Company from time to time enters into interest rate protection
agreements to effectively convert floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, as
well as to hedge anticipated financing transactions. Net amounts paid or
received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to interest
expense when such amounts are incurred or earned. Settlement amounts paid or
received in connection with terminated interest rate protection agreements are
deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the related financing
transaction on the straight-line method. The Company believes it has limited
exposure to the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each
protection agreement since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial
institution, and the Company does not anticipate their non-performance.

      (e)     DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES

         In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE
INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES ("Statement No. 133"). Statement No. 133
requires recording all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities, measured
at fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value
through income. If the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the
hedge, changes in the fair value of derivatives will either be offset against
the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments
through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged
item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative's change
in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings. The standard's
effective date was deferred by FASB Statement No. 137 to all fiscal quarters of
all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company is planning to adopt
the standard once it is effective and does not anticipate that the adoption will
have a material impact on the Company's financial condition and results of
operations.

      (f)     FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

         The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, including cash
and cash equivalents, mortgage notes payable, other notes payable, lines of
credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or contract
values. With respect to the Company's investment in mortgage notes, the fair
value as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 was estimated to be approximately $87.0
million and $91.8 million, respectively, compared to the Company's carrying
value of $85 million and $88 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of
the Company's investment in mortgage notes represents the estimated net present
value based on the expected future property level cash flows and an estimated
current market discount rate.

      (g)     REVENUE RECOGNITION

         Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from tenants
and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different
than on a straight-line basis. Interest income is recorded on an accrual basis.



                                      F-12


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


      (h)     LEASE AGREEMENTS

         The majority of the leases entered into between a tenant and a Property
for the rental of an apartment unit are year-to-year, renewable upon consent of
both parties on a year-to-year or month-to-month basis.

      (i)     INCOME TAXES

         Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the
operations of the Properties and Management Business, the results of operations
contain no provision for Federal income taxes. However, the Company is subject
to certain state and local income, excise or franchise taxes. The aggregate cost
of land and depreciable property for Federal income tax purposes as of December
31, 1999 and 1998 was approximately $8.6 billion and $8.5 billion, respectively.

      (j)     MINORITY INTERESTS

         Net income is allocated to the Minority Interests (as defined in Note
5) based on their respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership.
Ownership percentage is represented by dividing the number of OP Units held by
the Minority Interests by the total OP Units held by Minority Interests and EQR.
Issuance of additional Common Shares or OP Units changes the ownership interests
of both the Minority Interests and EQR. Such transactions and the proceeds
therefrom are treated as capital transactions and result in an allocation
between shareholders' equity and Minority Interests to account for the change in
the respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating
Partnership.

      (k)     USE OF ESTIMATES

         In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management makes
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

      (l)     REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

         During the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN
ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION ("Statement No. 131"). Statement No. 131
superseded FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14, FINANCIAL
REPORTING FOR SEGMENTS OF A BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ("Statement No. 14"). Statement
No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public business enterprises
report information regarding reportable operating segments. The adoption of
Statement No. 131 did not affect the Company's results of operations or
financial position.

         The Company has one primary reportable business segment, which consists
of investment in rental real estate. The Company's primary business is owning,
managing and operating multifamily residential properties which includes the
generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of apartment
units to tenants. The Company also has a segment for corporate level activity
including such items as interest income earned on short-term investments,
interest income earned on investment in mortgage notes, general and
administrative expenses, and interest expense on mortgage notes payable and
unsecured note issuances. In addition, the Company has a segment for third party
management activity that is immaterial



                                      F-13


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

and does not meet the threshold requirements of Statement No. 131 as a
reportable segment.

         The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources primarily
based on the rental and other income generated from each property less property
and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, and property
management expenses, which is considered net operating income ("NOI"). However,
all other segment measurements are disclosed in the Company's consolidated
financial statements, and accordingly the accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described elsewhere in the Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies.

         The Company also considers funds from operations ("FFO") to be a
primary measure of the performance of real estate companies including an equity
REIT. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a measure of the
performance of an equity REIT because, along with cash flows from operating
activities, financing activities and investing activities, it provides investors
an understanding of the ability of the Company to incur and service debt and to
make capital expenditures. FFO in and of itself does not represent cash
generated from operating activities in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and therefore should not be
considered an alternative to net income as an indication of the Company's
performance or to net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP
as a measure of liquidity and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to
fund cash needs. The Company's calculation of FFO represents net income
available to Common Shares, excluding gains on dispositions of properties, gains
on early extinguishment of debt, and write-off of unamortized costs on
refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real estate assets, income allocated to
Minority Interests and amortization of deferred financing costs related to the
predecessor business. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ from the
methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other REIT's and, accordingly, may
not be comparable to such other REIT's. The Company will adopt, effective
January 1, 2000, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trust's
("NAREIT") updated recommended definition of FFO as approved in the fourth
quarter of 1999.

         All revenues are from external customers and no revenues are generated
from transactions with other segments. There are no tenants who contributed 10%
or more of the Company's total revenues during 1999, 1998 or 1997. Interest
expense on debt is not allocated to individual Properties, even if the
Properties secure such debt. Further, minority interest in consolidated
subsidiaries is not allocated to the Properties. There is no provision for
income taxes as the Company is organized as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
Code.

4.       BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

         In connection with the Wellsford Merger each outstanding common share
of beneficial interest of Wellsford was converted into .625 of a Common Share of
the Company. In addition, Wellsford's Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 3,999,800
Series E Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01
par value per share (the "Series E Preferred Shares") and Wellsford's Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated
as the Company's 2,300,000 9.65% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares
of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series F Preferred
Shares").

         On the Wellsford Closing Date, 72 Properties containing 19,004 units
and other related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of
approximately $1 billion. The purchase price consisted of 10.8 million common
shares of beneficial interest, $.01 par value per share ("Common Shares") issued
by the Company with a market value of $443.7 million, the liquidation value of
$157.5 million for the Series E Preferred




                                      F-14




                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

Shares and the Series F Preferred Shares, the assumption of mortgage
indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount of $345 million, the assumption
of other liabilities of approximately $33.5 million and other merger related
costs of approximately $23.4 million.

         On the EWR Closing Date, 53 Properties containing 15,331 units and
three Properties under construction or expansion containing 953 units and other
related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of approximately $1.2
billion. In connection with the EWR Merger, as of the EWR Closing Date, each
outstanding common share of beneficial interest of EWR was converted into .50 of
a Common Share of the Company. The purchase price consisted of 10.3 million
Common Shares issued by the Company with a total market value of approximately
$501.6 million, the assumption of EWR's minority interest with a market value of
approximately $107.3 million, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness and
unsecured notes in the amount of $498 million, the assumption of other
liabilities of approximately $28.2 million and other EWR Merger related costs of
approximately $16.7 million.

         In connection with the MRY Merger, each outstanding common share of
beneficial interest of MRY was converted into 0.53 of a Common Share of the
Company. In addition, MRY spun-off certain assets and liabilities to Merry Land
Properties, Inc. ("MRYP Spinco"). As partial consideration for the transfer, the
Company extended a $25 million, one year, non-revolving loan to MRYP Spinco
pursuant to a Senior Debt Agreement. As of December 31, 1999, the debt agreement
was no longer outstanding.

         In addition, MRY Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 164,951 Series H
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series H Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the
Company's 4,000,000 Series I Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series I Preferred
Shares"), the MRY Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 4,599,400 Series J Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series J Preferred Shares"), the MRY Series D Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
1,000,000 Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series K Preferred Shares") and the
MRY Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were
redesignated as the Company's 4,000,000 Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series L
Preferred Shares").

         On the MRY Closing Date, 108 Properties containing 32,315 units, three
Properties under construction or expansion expected to contain 872 units, six
Additional Properties that represent an investment in six joint ventures
containing 1,297 units and other related assets were acquired for a total
purchase price of approximately $2.2 billion. The purchase price consisted of
21.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market value of $1
billion, the assumption of MRY's minority interest with a market value of
approximately $40.2 million, the liquidation value of $369.1 million for the
Series H Preferred Shares, the Series I Preferred Shares, the Series J Preferred
Shares, the Series K Preferred Shares and the Series L Preferred Shares, the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness, unsecured notes and a line of credit in the
amount of $723.5 million, the assumption of other liabilities of approximately
$46.5 million and other merger related costs of approximately $51.9 million.

         On the LFT Closing Date, 402 Properties containing 36,609 units and
other related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of approximately
$738 million. In connection with the LFT Merger, each outstanding common share
of beneficial interest of LFT was converted into 0.463 of a Common Share of the
Company. The purchase price consisted of 4.0 million Common Shares issued by the
Company with



                                      F-15




                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


a market value of $181.1 million, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness, a
term loan and a line of credit in the amount of $528.3 million, the acquisition
of other assets of approximately $40.9 million, the assumption of other
liabilities of approximately $25.3 million and other merger related costs of
approximately $24.5 million.

         All of the amounts stated in the previous paragraph are based on
management's current best estimates, which are subject to adjustment within one
year of the respective closing dates.

5.       SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND MINORITY INTERESTS

         The following table presents the changes in the Company's issued and
outstanding Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:



         On February 3, 1998, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of equity securities. The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998. In
addition, the Company carried over $272 million related to the registration
statement effective on August 4, 1997. As of December 31, 1999, $1.1 billion
remained outstanding under this registration statement.



                                      F-16

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

         The equity positions of various individuals and entities that
contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for a
partnership interest are collectively referred to as the "Minority Interests".
As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Minority Interests held 12,483,742 and
13,187,929 OP Units, respectively. As a result, the Minority Interests had an
8.92% and 10.04% interest in the Operating Partnership at December 31, 1999 and
1998, respectively. Assuming conversion of all OP Units into Common Shares,
total Common Shares outstanding at December 31, 1999 and 1998 would have been
139,934,540 and 131,417,938, respectively.

         Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share and Preferred Share
offerings are contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership in return
for an increased ownership percentage and are treated as capital transactions in
the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, the net offering
proceeds from Common Shares are allocated between shareholders' equity and
Minority Interests to account for the change in their respective percentage
ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.

         On October 12, 1999, the Company repurchased and retired 148,453 Common
Shares previously issued in connection with the LFT Merger. Various LFT
employees and trustees owned these Common Shares. The Company paid approximately
$6.3 million in connection therewith.

         In connection with certain acquisitions during the year ended December
31, 1999, the Operating Partnership issued 28,795 Series A Junior Convertible
Preference Units and 7,367 Series B Junior Convertible Preference Units having a
combined value of approximately $3.0 million. These units ultimately will
convert to OP Units in accordance with the respective term sheet agreements. The
value of these preference units is included in Minority Interests in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and the distributions incurred are included in
preferred distributions in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

         On September 27, 1999, EQR-Mosaic, L.L.C., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Operating Partnership, issued 800,000 units of 8.00% Series A Cumulative
Convertible Redeemable Preference Interests with an equity value of $40 million.
EQR-Mosaic LLC received $39 million in net proceeds from this transaction. The
liquidation value of these units is $50 per unit. The 800,000 units are
exchangeable into 800,000 shares of 8.00% Series M Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest of the Company. The Series M Preferred
Shares are not convertible to EQR Common Shares. Dividends for the Series A
Preference Interests or the Series M Preferred Shares are payable quarterly at
the rate of $4.00 per unit/share per year. The value of these preference
interests is included in Minority Interests in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
and the distributions incurred are included in preferred distributions in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

         The declaration of trust of the Company provides that the Company may
issue up to 100,000,000 Preferred Shares with specific rights, preferences and
other attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include
preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the
Company's Common Shares.

         The following table presents the Company's issued and outstanding
Preferred Shares as of December 31, 1999 and 1998:



                                      F-17


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)
















                                      F-18



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


         (1)      On or after the redemption date, redeemable preferred shares
                  (Series A, B, C, D, F, K and L) may be redeemed for cash at
                  the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a
                  redemption price equal to the liquidation price per share,
                  plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any.

         (2)      On or after the redemption date, convertible preferred shares
                  (Series E, G, H, I & J) may be redeemed under certain
                  circumstances for cash or Common Shares at the option of the
                  Company, in whole or in part, at various redemption prices per
                  share based upon the contractual conversion rate, plus accrued
                  and unpaid distributions, if any. The conversion rate listed
                  for Series G is the Preferred Share rate and the equivalent
                  Depositary Share rate is 0.4268.

         (3)      Dividends on all series of Preferred Shares are payable
                  quarterly at various pay dates. Dividend rates listed for
                  Series B, C, D and G are Preferred Share rates. The equivalent
                  Depositary Share annual dividend rates are $2.281252,
                  $2.281252, $2.15 and $1.8125 per Series B, C, D and G
                  Depositary Share, respectively.

         (4)      During 1999, all of the Series I Preferred Shares were
                  converted into 2,566,797 Common Shares of the Company.

6.       REAL ESTATE

         The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for investment in
real estate as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 (AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS):



         The following table summarizes the carrying amounts for the real estate
held for disposition as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 (AMOUNTS ARE IN
THOUSANDS):



         In addition to the LFT Merger, during the year ended December 31, 1999,
the Company acquired the twenty-two Properties listed below, of which fourteen
were acquired from unaffiliated third parties and eight were acquired from an
affiliated party. In connection with certain of the acquisitions listed below,
the Company assumed and/or entered into new mortgage indebtedness of
approximately $69.9 million, issued OP Units having a value of approximately
$25.2 million and issued Junior Convertible Preference Units




                                      F-19



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)



having a value of approximately $3.0 million. The cash portion of these
transactions was funded primarily from proceeds received from the disposition of
certain properties, working capital and the Company's line of credit.



* This acquisition also included approximately 264,000 square feet of office and
retail space and two parking garages.

         In addition to the MRY Merger, during the year ended December 31, 1998,
the Company acquired 99 Properties, of which 96 were acquired from unaffiliated
third parties and 3 were acquired from an affiliated party. In connection with
certain of these acquisitions, the Company assumed and/or entered into mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $459.8 million, issued OP Units having a value of
approximately $165 million and issued Junior Convertible Preference Units having
a value of approximately $4.8 million. The cash portion of these transactions
was funded primarily from proceeds raised from the various capital transactions
as disclosed in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the
various debt offerings as disclosed in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Company's line of credit, proceeds received from the
disposition of certain Properties and working capital.

7.       REAL ESTATE DISPOSITIONS

         During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company disposed of the
thirty-six Properties listed below to unaffiliated third parties. The Company
recognized a net gain for financial reporting purposes of



                                      F-20


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

approximately $93.5 million. In connection with one of these dispositions, the
purchaser assumed the Company's mortgage indebtedness of approximately $12.5
million.



         In addition, during the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company also
sold its entire interest in six MRY joint venture properties (to MRYP Spinco)
containing 1,297 units for approximately $54.1 million.




                                      F-21



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


8.        COMMITMENTS TO ACQUIRE/DISPOSE OF REAL ESTATE

         As of December 31, 1999, in addition to the Property that was
subsequently acquired as discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Company entered into separate agreements to acquire
three multifamily properties containing 886 units from unaffiliated parties. The
Company expects a combined purchase price of approximately $126 million.

         As of December 31, 1999, in addition to the Properties that were
subsequently disposed of as discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Company entered into separate agreements to dispose of
fourteen multifamily properties containing 3,056 units to unaffiliated parties.
The Company expects a combined disposition price of approximately $138.9
million.

         The closings of these pending transactions are subject to certain
contingencies and conditions; therefore, there can be no assurance that these
transactions will be consummated or that the final terms thereof will not differ
in material respects from those summarized in the preceding paragraphs.

9.       INVESTMENT IN MORTGAGE NOTES, NET

         In 1995, the Company made an $89 million investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 of the Properties.
These 21 Properties consist of 3,896 units, located in California, Colorado, New
Mexico and Oklahoma. This included an $87.1 million investment in second and
third mortgages (net of an original discount of approximately $12.7 million to
their face amount), $1.6 million represented a one time payment for an interest
rate protection agreement and $0.3 million represented an investment for
primarily a 49.5% limited partnership interest in the title-holding entities. As
the Company does not control the general partners of the title-holding entities
and substantially all of the Company's investment is in second and third
mortgages (which are subordinate to first mortgages owned by third party
unaffiliated entities), the $87.1 million investment is accounted for as an
investment in mortgage notes. The $1.6 million payment made for the interest
rate protection agreement is included in deferred financing costs and is being
amortized over the term of the related debt.

         As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the second mortgage notes had a
combined principal balance of approximately $17.5 million and $21.7 million,
respectively, and currently accrue interest at a rate of 9.45% per annum,
receive principal amortization from excess cash flow and have a stated maturity
date of December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the third mortgage
notes had a combined principal balance of approximately $71.1 million and $71.1
million, respectively, and currently accrue interest at a rate of 6.15% per
annum, plus up to an additional 3% per annum to the extent of available cash
flow. Contingent interest on the third mortgage notes is recognized to the
extent it is received. The third mortgage notes have a stated maturity of
December 31, 2024. Receipt of principal and interest on the second and third
mortgage notes is subordinated to the receipt of all interest on the first
mortgage notes. With respect to the discount on these notes, the unamortized
balance at December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $4.8 million and $6 million,
respectively. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company amortized $1.2 million,
$3.0 million and $3.1 million, respectively, which is included in interest
income-investment in mortgage notes in the consolidated statements of
operations. This discount is being amortized utilizing the effective yield
method based on the expected life of the investment.

10.      DEPOSITS-RESTRICTED

         Deposits-restricted as of December 31, 1999 primarily included the
following:



                                      F-22


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


            - a deposit in the amount of $25 million held in a third party
              escrow account to provide collateral for third party construction
              financing in connection with two separate joint venture
              agreements;
            - approximately $48.9 million was held in third party escrow
              accounts, representing proceeds received in connection with the
              Company's disposition of three properties and earnest money
              deposits made for one additional acquisition;
            - approximately $29.9 million was for tenant security, utility
              deposits, and other deposits for certain of the Company's
              Properties; and
            - approximately $7.5 million of other deposits.

         Deposits-restricted as of December 31, 1998 primarily included the
following:

            - a deposit in the amount of $20 million held in a third party
              escrow account to provide collateral for third party construction
              financing in connection with the Joint Venture Agreement;
            - approximately $22.2 million held in third party escrow accounts
              representing proceeds received in connection with the Company's
              disposition of four properties;
            - approximately $15.3 million for tenant security and utility
              deposits for certain of the Company's
              Properties; and
            - approximately $11.8 million of other deposits.

11.      MORTGAGE NOTES PAYABLE

         As of December 31, 1999, the Company had outstanding mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $2.9 billion encumbering 545 of the Properties.
The carrying value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of $416
million) was approximately $4.7 billion. The mortgage notes payables are
generally due in monthly installments of principal and interest.

         During the year ended December 31, 1999 the Company:

            - as part of the LFT Merger, assumed the outstanding mortgage
              balances on 342 Properties in the aggregate amount of $499.7
              million;
            - assumed the outstanding mortgage balances on eight additional
              properties acquired during 1999 in the aggregate amount of $69.9
              million;
            - repaid the outstanding mortgage balances on 31 Properties in the
              aggregate amount of $60.8 million. In connection with the above
              transactions, the Company incurred prepayment penalties of $0.5
              million, which have been classified as losses on early
              extinguishment of debt;
            - refinanced the debt on four existing properties totaling $44.9
              million with new mortgage indebtedness totaling $62.9 million;
            - obtained new mortgage financing on eleven previously unencumbered
              properties in the amount of $126.5 million;
            - refinanced the debt totaling $120.8 million on ten existing
              properties. In addition, five previously unencumbered properties
              cross-collateralize each of the new mortgage notes;
            - refinanced the debt on two existing properties and consequently
              sold its lender position to a third party, thus receiving
              additional net cash proceeds of approximately $2.6 million. The
              bond indebtedness on these two properties is now unsecured and
              is classified as notes, net at December 31, 1999;
            - refinanced the debt on one existing property and consequently sold
              its lender position to


                                      F-23


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)



              a third party, thus receiving additional cash proceeds of
              approximately $13.7 million; and
            - sold the debt on one property totaling $12.5 million in
              conjunction with a real estate disposition.

         As of December 31, 1999, scheduled maturities for the Company's
outstanding mortgage indebtedness are at various dates through October 1, 2033.
The interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 4.00% to 10.13% at
December 31, 1999. During the year ended December 31, 1999, the effective
interest cost on all of the Company's debt was 7.05%.

         Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of
the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):




         During the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company repaid the
outstanding mortgage balances on nine Properties in the aggregate amount of
$63.8 million.

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $2.3 billion encumbering 216 of the Properties.
The carrying value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of $250
million) was approximately $3.8 billion. The mortgage notes payables are
generally due in monthly installments of principal and interest. In connection
with the Properties acquired during the year ended December 31, 1998, including
the effects of the MRY Merger, the Company assumed the outstanding mortgage
balances on 58 Properties in the aggregate amount of $608.9 million, which
includes a premium of approximately $1.5 million recorded in connection with the
MRY Merger.

         As of December 31, 1998, scheduled maturities for the Company's
outstanding mortgage indebtedness are at various dates through October 1, 2033.
The interest rate range on the Company's mortgage debt was 3.00% to 10.00% at
December 31, 1998. During the year ended December 31, 1998, the effective
interest cost on all of the Company's debt was 7.10%.

         The Company has, from time to time, entered into interest rate
protection agreements (financial instruments) to reduce the potential impact of
increases in interest rates but believes it has limited exposure to the extent
of non-performance by the counterparties of each protection agreement since each
counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does not
anticipate their non-performance. No such financial instrument has been used for
trading purposes.

         Concurrent with the refinancing of certain tax-exempt bonds and as a
requirement of the credit provider of the bonds, the Financing Partnership,
which owns certain of the Properties, entered into interest rate protection
agreements, which were assigned to the credit provider as additional security.
The Financing Partnership pays interest based on a fixed interest rate and the
counterparty of the agreement pays interest to



                                      F-24


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


the Company at a floating rate that is calculated based on the Public Securities
Association Index for municipal bonds ("PSA Municipal Index"). As of December
31, 1999, the aggregate notional amounts of these agreements were approximately
$133.4 million, $27.7 million, $9.1 million. As of December 31, 1998, the
aggregate notional amounts of these agreements were approximately $135.1
million, $28.0 million and $9.2 million. The fixed interest rates for these
agreements were 4.81%, 4.528% and 4.90%. The termination dates are October 1,
2003, January 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004.

         The Company simultaneously entered into substantially identical reverse
interest rate protection agreements. Under these agreements the Company pays
interest monthly at a floating rate based on the PSA Municipal Index and the
counterparty pays interest to the Company based on a fixed interest rate. As of
December 31, 1999, the aggregate notional amounts of these agreements were
approximately $133.4 million, $27.7 million, $9.1 million. As of December 31,
1998, the aggregate notional amounts of these agreements were approximately
$135.1 million, $28.0 million and $9.2 million. The fixed interest rates
received by the Company in exchange for paying interest based on the PSA
Municipal Index for these agreements were 4.74%, 4.458% and 4.83%. The
termination dates are October 1, 2003, January 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004.
Collectively, these agreements effectively cost the Company 0.07% per annum on
the current outstanding aggregate notional amount.

         The Company also has an interest rate swap agreement for a notional
amount of $228 million, for which it will receive payments if the PSA index
exceeds 8.00%, that terminates on December 1, 2000. Any payments by the
counterparty under this agreement have been collaterally assigned to the
provider of certain sureties related to the tax-exempt bonds secured by certain
of its Properties. The Company has no payment obligations to the counterparty
with respect to this agreement.

         In May 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate upon its refinancing of the Evans
Withycombe Financing Limited Partnership indebtedness to within a range of 5.6%
to 6.0%. The agreement was for a notional amount of $131 million with a
settlement date of August 2001. There was no initial cost to the Company for
entering into this agreement.

         In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the interest rate cost of the Company's planned
financing in the fourth quarter of 1998. This agreement was canceled in November
1998 at a cost of approximately $3.7 million. This cost is being amortized over
the life of the financing for the fifteen previously unencumbered Properties
that occurred in November 1998.

         In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
agreement that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the
Operating Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of
3.65125%. This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a
termination date of August 2003.

         In August 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
agreement that fixed the Company's interest rate risk on a portion of the
Operating Partnership's variable rate tax-exempt bond indebtedness at a rate of
3.683%. This agreement was for a notional amount of $150 million with a
termination date of August 2005.

         In October 1999, the Company settled on a $50 million treasury lock and
received $1.38 million. This settlement is being amortized over the life of the
financing for the eleven previously unencumbered Properties that occurred in
July 1999.

         The Company believes that it has limited exposure to the extent of
non-performance by the



                                      F-25


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


counterparties of the agreements, mentioned in the previous paragraphs, since
each counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does
not anticipate their non-performance.

         The fair value of these instruments, discussed above, as of December
31, 1999 approximates their carrying or contract values.

12.      NOTES

        The following tables summarize the Company's unsecured note balances and
certain interest rate and maturity date information as of and for the years
ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively:



(1)      As of December 31, 1999, floating rate public notes consisted of one
         note. The interest rate on this note was LIBOR (reset quarterly) plus a
         spread equal to 0.75% at December 31, 1999 (reset annually in August).




(2)      As of December 31, 1998, floating rate public notes consisted of two
         separate notes. The interest rate on the first note was LIBOR (reset
         quarterly) plus a spread equal to 0.45% at December 31, 1998 (reset
         annually in August). The interest rate on the second note was LIBOR
         (reset quarterly) plus a spread equal to 0.32% at December 31, 1998.

         As of December 31, 1999, the Company had outstanding unsecured notes of
approximately $2.3 billion net of a $4.6 million discount and including a $7.1
million premium.

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding unsecured notes of
approximately $2.0 billion net of a $5.3 million discount and including a $9.2
million premium.

         On February 3, 1998, the Operating Partnership filed a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of debt securities. The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998. As of
December 31, 1999, $430 million remained outstanding under this registration
statement.


                                      F-26



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


         During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company:

            - issued $300 million of redeemable unsecured fixed rate notes (the
              "June 2004 Notes") in connection with the Debt Shelf
              Registration in a public debt offering (the "Ninth Public Debt
              Offering"). The June 2004 Notes were issued at a discount, which
              is being amortized over the life of the notes on a straight-line
              basis. As of December 31, 1999, the unamortized discount balance
              was approximately $0.2 million. The June 2004 Notes are due June
              23, 2004. The annual interest rate on the June 2004 Notes is
              7.10%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on December 23
              and June 23, commencing December 23, 1999. The Operating
              Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $298.0
              million in connection with this issuance;
            - repaid its $125 million fixed rate notes that matured on May 15,
              1999 and its $25 million floating rate notes that matured on
              November 24, 1999;
            - refinanced the bond indebtedness collateralized by four existing
              properties. The bond indebtedness on all four properties totaling
              $75.8 million is now unsecured;
            - pursuant to the LFT Merger, assumed an unsecured term note in the
              approximate amount of $2.3 million and paid it off the same day;
              and
            - refinanced the bond indebtedness collateralized by two existing
              properties. The bond indebtedness on both properties totaling
              $16.4 million is now unsecured.

         Aggregate payments of principal on unsecured notes payable for each of
the next five years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in thousands):




         As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the remaining unamortized balance of
deferred settlement receipts from treasury locks and interest rate protection
agreements was $9.5 million and $8.8 million, respectively.

         As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the remaining unamortized balance of
deferred settlement payments on treasury locks and interest rate protection
agreements was $3.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively.

         In regard to the interest rate protection agreements mentioned, the
Company believes that it has limited exposure to the extent of non-performance
by the counterparties of each agreement since each counterparty is a major U.S.
financial institution, and the Company does not anticipate their
non-performance.




                                      F-27



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


13.      LINES OF CREDIT

         On August 12, 1999 the Company obtained a new three year $700 million
unsecured revolving credit facility, with Bank of America Securities LLC and
Chase Securities Inc. acting as joint lead arrangers, maturing August 11, 2002.
The new line of credit replaced the Company's $500 million unsecured revolving
credit facility, as well as the $120 million unsecured revolving credit facility
which the Company assumed in the MRY Merger. The prior existing revolving credit
facilities were repaid in full and terminated upon the closing of the new
facility. Advances under the credit facility bear interest at variable rates
based upon LIBOR at various interest periods, plus a certain spread dependent
upon the Company's credit rating. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, $300 million
and $290 million, respectively, was outstanding and $65.8 million and $12
million, respectively, was restricted on the lines of credit. During the years
ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the weighted average interest rate was 6.42%
and 6.47%, respectively.

         Pursuant to the LFT Merger, the Company assumed a line of credit that
had an outstanding balance of approximately $26.4 million. On October 1, 1999,
the Company repaid the outstanding balance and terminated this facility.

14.      CALCULATION OF NET INCOME PER WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARE

         The following tables set forth the computation of net income per share
- - basic and net income per share - diluted.



                                      F-28


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)










                                      F-29



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)










   FOR ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES REGARDING THE EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS, SEE NOTE 16.

   CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED SHARES AND JUNIOR CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE UNITS THAT
   COULD BE CONVERTED INTO 12,023,051, 8,739,688 AND 2,763,898 WEIGHTED COMMON
   SHARES FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997, RESPECTIVELY,
   WERE OUTSTANDING BUT WERE NOT INCLUDED IN THE COMPUTATION OF DILUTED EARNINGS
   PER SHARE BECAUSE THE EFFECTS WOULD BE ANTI-DILUTIVE.

15.      SUMMARIZED PRO FORMA CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

         The following Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Operations
has been prepared as if the following had occurred on January 1, 1999 (as
described in Note 4, Note 5, Note 6, Note 7, Note 11 and Note 12 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements):

            - the acquisition of the 402 LFT properties containing 36,609 units
              and other related assets for a total purchase price of
              approximately $738 million;
            - the acquisition of an additional 22 Properties, including the
              related assumption of $69.9 million of mortgage indebtedness, the
              issuance of Junior Convertible Preference Units with a value of
              $3.0 million and the issuance of OP Units with a value of $25.2
              million;
            - the disposition of 36 properties;
            - the $300 million public debt offering in June 1999;
            - the repayment of the 1999 Notes totaling $125 million;
            - the repayment of the 1999-A Medium Term Notes totaling $25
              million;
            - the repayment of LFT's unsecured term note and line of credit
              totaling $28.6 million;
            - the repayment of the outstanding mortgage balances on 31
              properties totaling $60.8 million;
            - the mortgage financing of eleven previously unencumbered
              Properties for $126.5 million;
            - the mortgage refinancing of eight properties increasing mortgage
              indebtedness by $21.8 million (net);


                                      F-30


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)



            - the issuance of the 800,000 units of 8.00% Series A Cumulative
              Convertible Redeemable Preference Interests; and
            - the conversion of all of the Series I Preferred Shares to
              2,566,797 Common Shares during 1999.

         This would result in 126,417,761 Common Shares outstanding on January
1, 1999. In management's opinion, the Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement
of Operations does not purport to present what actual results would have been
had the above transactions occurred on January 1, 1999, or to project results
for any future period. The amounts presented in the following statement are in
thousands except for per share amounts:






16.      SHARE OPTION AND SHARE AWARD PLAN

         Pursuant to the Company's Fifth Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option
and Share Award Plan (the "Fifth Amended Option and Award Plan"), officers,
directors, key employees and consultants of the Company may be offered the
opportunity to acquire Common Shares through the grant of share options
("Options") including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs"), incentive share
options ("ISOs") and share appreciation rights ("SARs") or may be granted
restricted or non-restricted shares. Additionally, under the Fifth Amended
Option and Award Plan, officers and key employees of the Company may be awarded
Common Shares, subject to conditions and restrictions as described in the Fifth
Amended Option and Award Plan. Options and SARs are sometimes referred to herein
as "Awards".

         As to the Options that have been granted through December 31, 1999,
generally, one-third are exercisable one year after the initial grant, one-third
are exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted and the
remaining one-third are exercisable three years following the date such Options
were granted. As to the restricted shares that have been awarded through
December 31, 1999, these shares fully vest three years from the award date.
During the three year period of restriction, the employee receives quarterly
dividend payments on their shares. If employment is terminated prior to the
lapsing of the restriction, the shares are canceled.

         The Company has reserved 12,500,000 Common Shares for issuance under
the Fifth Amended Option and Award Plan. The Options generally are granted at
the fair market value of the Company's



                                      F-31



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


Common Shares at the date of grant, vest over a three year period, are
exercisable upon vesting and expire ten years from the date of grant. The
exercise price for all Options under the Fifth Amended Option and Award Plan
shall not be less than the fair market value of the underlying Common Shares at
the time the Option is granted. The Fifth Amended Option and Award Plan will
terminate at such time as no further Common Shares are available for issuance
upon the exercise of Options and all outstanding Options have expired or been
exercised. The Board of Trustees may at any time amend or terminate the Fifth
Amended Option and Award Plan, but termination will not affect Awards previously
granted. Any Options, which had vested prior to such a termination, would remain
exercisable by the holder thereof.

         Pursuant to the MRY Merger, the Company assumed MRY's Stock Option and
Incentive Plan, which included existing options granted by MRY prior to the MRY
Merger. As to the Options that have been granted through October 18, 1998,
generally, one-fifth are exercisable one year after the initial grant, one-fifth
are exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted,
one-fifth are exercisable three years following the date such Options were
granted, one-fifth are exercisable four years following the date such Options
were granted and the remaining one-fifth are exercisable five years following
the date such Options were granted.

         The Company will not issue common shares under the MRY Stock Option and
Incentive Plan. The Options already granted under the plan were assumed with the
original grant dates. The number of original MRY Options and the original MRY
grant prices were converted to the Company's equivalent using a conversion ratio
of 0.54. They will vest over a five-year period, are exercisable upon vesting
and expire ten years from the date of grant. The MRY Stock Option and Incentive
Plan will terminate at such time all outstanding Options have expired or been
exercised. Any Options, which had vested prior to such assumption, would remain
exercisable by the holder thereof.

         Pursuant to the LFT Merger, the Company assumed LFT's Incentive Equity
Plan, which included existing options granted by LFT prior to the LFT Merger. As
to the Options that were granted by LFT from January 1, 1999 through September
30, 1999, generally, one-third are exercisable one year after the initial grant,
one-third are exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted
and the remaining one-third are exercisable three years following the date such
Options were granted.

         The Company will not issue common shares under the LFT Incentive Equity
Plan. The Options already granted under the plan were assumed with the original
grant dates. The number of original LFT Options and the original LFT grant
prices were converted to the Company's equivalent using a conversion ratio of
0.463. The Options granted through December 31, 1998 vested immediately upon
closing of the LFT Merger and are exercisable and expire ten years from the date
of grant. The LFT Incentive Equity Plan will terminate at such time all
outstanding Options have expired or been exercised. Any Options, which had
vested prior to such assumption, would remain exercisable by the holder thereof.

         The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO EMPLOYEES ("APB
No. 25"), in the computation of compensation expense. Under APB No. 25's
intrinsic value method, compensation expense is determined by computing the
excess of the market price of the shares over the exercise price on the
measurement date. For the Company's share options, the intrinsic value on the
measurement date (or grant date) is zero, and no compensation expense is
recognized. FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, ACCOUNTING
FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION ("Statement No. 123"), requires the Company to
disclose pro forma net income and income per share as if a fair value based
accounting method had been used in the computation of compensation expense. The
fair value of the options computed under Statement No. 123 would be recognized
over the vesting period of the options. The fair value for the Company's options
was estimated at the time the



                                      F-32


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


options were granted using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions for 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 6.33%, 5.37% and 5.84%; dividend yields of 5.32%,
5.98% and 6.89%; volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Company's Common Shares of 0.218, 0.212 and 0.209; and a weighted-average
expected life of the option of seven years.

         The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
volatility. Because the Company's Options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its Options.

         For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
Options is amortized to expense over the Options' vesting period. The following
is the pro forma information for the three years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997 (unaudited):



         The table below summarizes the Option activity of the Fifth Amended
Option and Award Plan, the MRY Stock Option and Incentive Plan and the LFT Stock
Option Plan for the three years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:



                                      F-33



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)



         As of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, 3,266,759 shares, 2,841,111
shares and 1,330,150 shares were exercisable, respectively. Exercise prices for
Options outstanding as of December 31, 1999 ranged from $26 to $54.8125 for the
Fifth Amended Option and Award Plan, $15.28 to $41.85 for the MRY Stock Option
and Incentive Plan and $2.83 to $48.60 for the LFT Stock Option Plan. Expiration
dates ranged from August 11, 2003 to November 8, 2009. The remaining
weighted-average contractual life of those Options was 7.3 years. The
weighted-average grant date fair value of Options granted during 1999, 1998 and
1997 was $4.43, $6.28 and $7.37, respectively.

17.      EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

         Under the Company's Employee Share Purchase Plan certain eligible
officers, trustees and employees of the Company may annually acquire up to
$100,000 of Common Shares of the Company. The aggregate number of Common Shares
available under the Employee Share Purchase Plan shall not exceed 1,000,000,
subject to adjustment by the Board of Trustees. The Common Shares may be
purchased quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the closing
price for a share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater of: (i)
the closing price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and (ii) the
average closing price for a share for all the business days in the quarter.
During 1997, the Company issued 84,183 Common Shares at net prices that ranged
from $35.63 per share to $42.08 per share and raised approximately $3.2 million
in connection therewith. During 1998, the Company issued 93,521 Common Shares at
net prices that ranged from $35.70 per share to $42.71 per share and raised
approximately $3.7 million in connection therewith. During 1999, the Company
issued 147,885 Common Shares at net prices that ranged from $34.37 per share to
$36.71 per share and raised approximately $5.2 million in connection therewith.



                                      F-34



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)


18.      DISTRIBUTION REINVESTMENT AND SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

         On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan"). The
registration statement was declared effective on November 25, 1997.

         The DRIP Plan of the Company provides holders of record and beneficial
owners of Common Shares, Preferred Shares, and limited partnership interests in
the Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient method of investing cash
distributions in additional Common Shares (which is referred to herein as the
"Dividend Reinvestment - DRIP Plan"). Common Shares may also be purchased on a
monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants in the DRIP Plan
and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the Company, at the
market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging between 0% and 5%, as
determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan (which is referred to herein as the
"Share Purchase - DRIP Plan").

19.        EMPLOYEE TRANSACTIONS

         Douglas Crocker II, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, and three other officers had purchased an aggregate of 190,000 Common
Shares at prices which range from $26 to $31.625 per Common Share. These
purchases were financed by loans made by the Company in the aggregate amount of
approximately $5.3 million. The employee notes accrue interest, payable in
arrears, at rates that range from 6.15% per annum to 7.93% per annum. Scheduled
maturities are at various dates through March 2005. The outstanding balance on
these loans in the aggregate was $4.7 million and $4.9 million for the years
ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The employee notes are recourse
to Mr. Crocker and the three other officers and are collateralized by pledges of
the 190,000 Common Shares purchased.

         In addition, as of December 31, 1999, the outstanding principal balance
on additional notes issued to Mr. Crocker and three other officers was
approximately $1.2 million. These notes accrue interest, payable in arrears, at
one month LIBOR plus 2% per annum. Scheduled maturities are at various dates
through March 2003. Subsequent to December 31, 1999, Mr. Crocker paid a
principal installment on one of his notes in the amount of $80,570 and repaid
another note in full in the amount of $100,000. The notes are recourse to Mr.
Crocker and the three other officers and are collateralized by pledges of
options and share awards.

         Mr. Crocker and Gerald A. Spector, Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company, have entered into Deferred Compensation
Agreements with the Company which provide both with a salary benefit after their
respective termination of employment with the Company, under certain
circumstances. In addition, Mr. Crocker also has entered into a Share
Distributions Agreement with the Company whereby he was issued options to
purchase 100,000 Common Shares under the terms of the Fifth Amended Option and
Award Plan. Upon exercise of these options, Mr. Crocker will be entitled to
receive dividends on these shares as if they had been outstanding from the grant
date through the exercise date. The Company has recognized $1.1 million, $0.8
million and $0.7 million of compensation expense for the years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, related to these agreements.

         The Company has established a defined contribution plan (the "401(k)
Plan") that provides retirement benefits for employees that meet minimum
employment criteria. The Company contributes 100% of the first 4% of eligible
compensation that a participant contributes to the 401(k) Plan. Participants are
vested in the Company's contributions over five years. The Company made
contributions in the amount of $1.4 million and $1.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively, and expects



                                      F-35



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

to make contributions in the amount of approximately $3.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999.

20.      TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES

         In connection with the Wellsford Merger, Jeffrey H. Lynford and Edward
Lowenthal (trustees of the Company) each executed a consulting agreement with
the Company. Each consulting agreement has a term of five years from May 30,
1997, the closing date of the Wellsford Merger. Pursuant to the consulting
agreements, each of Messrs. Lynford and Lowenthal will serve as a senior
management consultant to the Company and will receive compensation at the rate
of $200,000 per year plus reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.

         In connection with the EWR Merger, in December 1997, Stephen O. Evans
(a trustee of the Company) executed a consulting agreement with an affiliate of
the Company. The consulting agreement had a term of two years and expired on
December 31, 1999. Pursuant to the consulting agreement, Mr. Evans served as a
senior management consultant to the Company and received compensation at the
rate of $225,000 per year. Mr. Evans also received an option to purchase 115,500
Common Shares that will vest in three equal annual installments and will have an
exercise price equal to $50.125 per Common Share. Mr. Evans was also eligible to
participate in all of the Company's employee benefit plans in which persons in
comparable positions participate, treating Mr. Evans as an employee.

         In connection with the affiliated lease agreements for various offices
as defined in Note 21, the Company paid Equity Office Holdings, L.L.C. ("EOH")
$126,272, $114,539 and $145,511 in connection with the Chicago Office, $261,040,
$194,506 and $177,793 in connection with the Tampa Office, $131,079, $83,485 and
$55,149 in connection with the Southern California area office and $770,317,
$772,320 and $632,693 in connection with the space occupied by the corporate
headquarters for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Also, the Company paid EOH $166,328 and $55,117 in connection with the Atlanta
Office for the year ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Amounts due
to EOH were $311,345, $136,000 and $59,675 as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

         Equity Group Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries,
including, Equity Properties & Development, L.P. and Equity Properties
Management Corp. (collectively, "EGI"), have provided certain services to the
Company which include, but are not limited to, investor relations, corporate
secretarial, real estate tax evaluation services and market consulting and
research services. Fees paid to EGI for these services amounted to approximately
$708,582, $1.1 million and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively. Amounts due to EGI were $175,662, $57,408 and
$74,578 as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

         Artery Property Management, Inc., a real estate property management
company ("APMI") in which Mr. Goldberg, a trustee of the Company, is a
two-thirds owner and chairman of the board of directors, provided the Company
consulting services with regard to property acquisitions and additional business
opportunities. In connection with the acquisition of certain Properties from Mr.
Goldberg and his affiliates during 1995, the Company made a loan to Mr. Goldberg
and APMI of $15,212,000 evidenced by two notes and secured by 465,545 OP Units.
At December 31, 1999, approximately $6.2 million was outstanding and 64,948 OP
Units and 123,792 Common Shares secured this loan. In connection with the
acquisition of certain Properties from Mr. Goldberg and his affiliates during
1998, the Company made a $12,000,000 revolving loan to Mr. Goldberg and his wife
in September 1998. On October 1, 1999, this note was fully repaid.



                                      F-36


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

         During 1999, the Company acquired eight Properties and the related
management agreements from affiliates of Mr. Goldberg for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $110.2 million, including the assumption of approximately
$44.3 million of mortgage indebtedness. The purchase price also included the
issuance of 28,795 Series A Junior Convertible Preference Units in the Operating
Partnership which have a liquidation value of $100 per unit and are exchangeable
for OP Units under certain circumstances. On June 29, 1999, Mr. Goldberg
received 8,462 of these units with a liquidation value of approximately $0.8
million.

         Certain related entities provided services to the Company. These
included, but were not limited to, Rosenberg & Liebentritt, P.C., which provided
legal services, and Arthur A. Greenberg, which provided tax advisory services.
Fees paid to these related entities in the aggregate amounted to $1.3 million
for the year ended December 31, 1997. In addition, The Riverside Agency, Inc.,
which provided insurance brokerage services, was paid fees and reimbursed
premiums and loss claims in the amount of $0.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997.

         Piper, Marbury, Rudnick & Wolfe, a law firm in which Mr. Errol
Halperin, a trustee of the Company, is a partner, provided legal services to the
Company. Fees paid to this firm amounted to approximately $1.6 million, $2.2
million and $2.3 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

         Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson, a law firm in which Ms. Sheli
Rosenberg's (a trustee of the Company) husband is a partner, provided legal
services to the Company. Fees paid to this firm amounted to $34,357 and $29,146,
for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

         In addition, the Company has provided acquisitions, asset and property
management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by the
Company. Fees received for providing such services were approximately $2.4
million, $3.5 million and $4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

21.      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

         The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various
environmental laws of Federal and local governments. Compliance by the Company
with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations. However, the Company cannot
predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current
Properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.

         The Company does not believe there is any litigation threatened against
the Company other than routine litigation arising out of the ordinary course of
business, some of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance, none
of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial statements of the Company.

         In regard to the joint venture agreements with two multifamily
residential real estate developers during the year ended December 31, 1999, the
Company funded a total of $88.6 million and during 2000 the Company expects to
fund approximately $32.7 million in connection with these agreements. In
connection with the first agreement, the Company has an obligation to fund up to
an additional $20 million to guarantee third party construction financing.


                                      F-37


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

         In regard to certain other properties that were under development
and/or expansion during the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company funded
$47.5 million. During 2000, the Company expects to fund $44.9 million related to
the continued development and/or expansion of as many as three Properties.

         In regard to certain properties that were under earnout/development
agreements, during the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company funded the
following:

            - $17.2 million relating to the acquisition of Copper Canyon
              Apartments, which included a $1.0 million earnout payment to the
              developer;
            - $24.9 million relating to the acquisition of Skyview Apartments,
              which included a $3.1 million earnout payment to the developer;
              and
            - $18.3 million relating to the acquisition of Rosecliff Apartments.

         During 2000, the Company expects to fund $33.4 million related to the
continued earnout/development of one Property.

         In connection with the Wellsford Merger, the Company has provided a
$14.8 million credit enhancement with respect to certain tax-exempt bonds issued
to finance certain public improvements at a multifamily development project.
Pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement with Wellsford Real
Properties, Inc. ("WRP Newco"), the Company has agreed to purchase up to
1,000,000 shares of WRP Newco Series A Preferred at $25.00 per share on a
standby basis over a three-year period ending on May 30, 2000. These preferred
shares would be convertible to WRP Newco common shares under certain
circumstances. As of December 31, 1999, no shares of WRP Newco Series A
Preferred had been acquired by the Company.

         In connection with the MRY Merger, the Company extended a $25 million,
one year, non-revolving loan to MRYP Spinco pursuant to a Senior Debt Agreement.
On June 24, 1999, MRYP Spinco repaid the entire outstanding Senior Note balance
of $18.3 million and there is no further obligation by either party in
connection with this agreement.

         Also, in connection with the MRY Merger, the Company entered into six
joint venture agreements with MRYP Spinco, the entity spun-off in the MRY
Merger. The Company contributed six properties with an initial value of $52.7
million in return for an ownership interest in each joint venture. On August 23,
1999, the Company sold its entire interest in these six properties to MRYP
Spinco and there is no further obligation by either party in connection with
these agreements.

         The Company has lease agreements with an affiliated party covering
office space occupied by the management offices located in Tampa, Florida (the
"Tampa Office"), Atlanta, Georgia (the "Atlanta Office"); and Chicago, Illinois
(the "Chicago Office"). The Company also has a lease agreement with an
affiliated party covering office space occupied by an area office located in
Southern California. The Tampa Office agreement expires on October 31, 2001, the
Atlanta Office agreement expires on June 20, 2001, the Chicago Office agreement
expires on July 11, 2000 and the Southern California agreement expires on July
31, 2000.

         The Company also has seven additional lease agreements with
unaffiliated parties covering space occupied by the management offices located
in Dallas, Texas (the "Dallas Office"); Bethesda, Maryland (the "Bethesda
Office"); Denver, Colorado (the "Denver Office"); Seattle, Washington (the
"Seattle Office"); Scottsdale, Arizona (the "Scottsdale Office"), Charlotte,
North Carolina (the "Charlotte Office") and Reynoldsburg, Ohio (the "Lexford
Office"). The lease agreement for the Dallas Office expires on



                                      F-38



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

September 30, 2005, the lease agreement for the Bethesda Office expires on
February 1, 2004, the lease agreement for the Denver Office expires on December
31, 2002, the lease agreement for the Seattle Office expires on June 30, 2003,
the lease agreement for the Scottsdale Office expires on July 31, 2004, the
lease agreement for the Charlotte Office expires on May 31, 2004 and the lease
agreement for the Lexford Office expires on December 31, 2004.

         The Company also has a lease agreement with an affiliated party
covering office space occupied by the corporate headquarters located in Chicago,
Illinois. This agreement, as amended, expires on July 31, 2001. In addition,
commencing June 15, 1998, the Company increased the office space occupied by its
corporate personnel. The lease agreement covering the additional space expires
on December 31, 2004.

         During the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, total lease
payments incurred, including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs
and utilities, aggregated $3,271,513, $2,528,150 and $1,491,766, respectively.

         The minimum basic aggregate rental commitment under the above described
leases in years succeeding December 31, 1999 is as follows:



22.      REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

         The following tables set forth the reconciliation of net income and
total assets for the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 (see also Note 3 for further discussion).


                                      F-39


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)











                                      F-40








                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)







                                      F-41


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)




(1)  The Company has one primary reportable business segment, which consists of
     investment in rental real estate. The Company's primary business is owning,
     managing, and operating multifamily residential properties which includes
     the generation of rental and other related income through the leasing of
     apartment units to tenants.

(2)  The Company has a segment for corporate level activity including such items
     as interest income earned on short-term investments, interest income earned
     on investment in mortgage notes, general and administrative expenses, and
     interest expense on mortgage notes payable and unsecured note issuances. In
     addition, the Company has a segment for third party management activity
     that is immaterial and does not meet the threshold requirements of a
     reportable segment as provided for in Statement No. 131. Interest expense
     on debt is not allocated to individual Properties, even if the Properties
     secure such debt. Further, income allocated to Minority Interests is not
     allocated to the Properties.



                                      F-42


                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

23.     SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

         On January 14, 2000, the Company announced it has entered into an
agreement to acquire, in an all cash and debt transaction, Globe Business
Resources, Inc. ("Globe"), one of the nation's largest providers of temporary
corporate housing and furniture rental. Shareholders of Globe will receive
$13.00 per share upon closing and up to an additional $0.50 per share post
closing, upon final determination of costs, if any, relating to any potential
breaches of certain representations and covenants. At full funding of $13.50 per
share, the Company would pay approximately $64.8 million in cash (based on the
4.8 million Globe shares currently outstanding). In addition, the Company will
assume approximately $69.4 million in debt. The acquisition, which is expected
to close during the second quarter of 2000, does not require approval of the
Company's shareholders but does require Globe shareholder approval.

         On January 19, 2000, the Company acquired Windmont Apartments, a
178-unit multifamily property located in Atlanta, GA, from an unaffiliated third
party for a purchase price of approximately $10.3 million.

         On January 24, 2000, the Company funded $2.3 million for an initial
earnout payment to the developer of Rosecliff Apartments.

         On January 25, 2000, the Company settled on a $100 million forward
starting swap and received $7.1 million in connection therewith. The amount
received is expected to be amortized over the life of a future financing
transaction that the Company expects to close in March 2000.

         From January 1, 2000 through March 3, 2000, the Company repaid the
outstanding mortgage balances on three properties in the aggregate amount of
$12.8 million.

         On February 4, 2000, the Company disposed of Lakeridge at the Moors
Apartments, a 175-unit multifamily property located in Miami, FL, to an
unaffiliated party for a total sales price of $10 million.

         On February 9, 2000, the Company disposed of Sonnet Cove I&II
Apartments, a 331-unit multifamily property located in Lexington, KY, to an
unaffiliated party for a total sales price of $12.3 million.

         On February 25, 2000, the Company disposed of Yuma Court Apartments, a
40-unit multifamily property located in Colorado Springs, CO, to an unaffiliated
party for a total sales price of $2.4 million.

         On February 25, 2000, the Company disposed of Oaks of Lakebridge
Apartments, a 170-unit multifamily property located in Ormond Beach, FL, to an
unaffiliated party for a total sales price of $7.8 million.

         On February 25, 2000, the Company disposed of Indigo Plantation
Apartments, a 304-unit multifamily property located in Daytona Beach, FL, to an
unaffiliated party for a total sales price of $14.2 million.

         On March 3, 2000, Lexford Properties, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Operating Partnership, issued 1.1 million units of 8.50% Series B
Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preference Units with an equity value of $55.0
million. Lexford Properties, L.P. received $53.6 million in net proceeds from
this transaction. The liquidation value of these units is $50 per unit. The 1.1
million units are exchangeable into 1.1 million shares of 8.50% Series M-1
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of




                                      F-43



                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

Beneficial Interest of the Company. The Series M-1 Preferred Shares are not
convertible to EQR Common Shares. Dividends for the Series B Preference Units
or the Series M-1 Preferred Shares are payable quarterly at the rate of $4.25
per unit/share per year.

24.      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

         The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis
of a December 31 year-end. The 1999 and 1998 net income per weighted average
Common Share amounts have been presented and, where appropriate, restated to
comply with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per
Share. For further discussion of net income per share and the impact of
Statement No. 128, see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amounts are in thousands, except for per share amounts.







                                      F-44





                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999



































                                       S-1




















                                       S-2




                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
















                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999














                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999












                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999


















                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999










                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999





                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999







                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999




                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999





                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999




                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999






                                  SCHEDULE III

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

                               DECEMBER 31, 1999




NOTES:

(A)      The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total investment in
         real estate amount was $404,259,561 as of December 31,1999.
         The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total real estate
         held for disposition amount was $1,403,187 as of December 31, 1999.
(B)      The aggregate cost for Federal Income Tax purposes as of December 31,
         1999 was approximately $8.5 billion.
(C)      The life to compute depreciation for furniture & fixtures is 5 years.
(D)      These two properties are encumbered by $14,438,632 in bonds.
(E)      These 17 properties are encumbered by $136,000,000 in bonds.
(F)      These four properties are encumbered by $15,500,000 in bonds.
(G)      This asset consists of various acquisition dates and largely represents
         furniture, fixtures and equipment owned by the Management Business.
(H)      This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents
         furniture, fixtures and equipment owned by the Operating Partnership.
(I)      Improvements are net of write-off of fully depreciated assets which are
         no longer in service.
(J)      Formerly known as Oxford & Sussex
(K)      Formerly known as Post Place
(L)      Formerly known as The Vinings at Coral Springs
(M)      Formerly known as The Plantations (NC)
(N)      These five properties are pledged as additional collateral in
         connection with the tax-exempt bond refinancing of $177,570,000.
(O)      These 21 properties are encumbered by $132,203,864 in bonds.
(P)      These 5 properties are encumbered by a $48,722,302 note payable.
(Q)      These 5 properties are encumbered by $50,000,000 of mortgage debt.
(R)      These properties are currently under development and will be completed
         subsequent to December 31, 1999.
(S)      These ten properties are encumbered by $177,570,000 in bonds.
(T)      Includes Port Royale I, Port Royale II and Port Royale III. Port Royale
         III is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(U)      These five properties are pledged as additional collateral in
         connection with a tax-exempt bond refinancing totaling $122,104,116.

 *  Four.Lakes was constructed in phases between 1968 & 1988.
(#) The Lodge-Texas was struck by a tornado that destroyed most of the
    property. The property was reconstructed during 1989 & 1990.
(x) Pines of Springdale was constructed in phases between 1985 & 1987.



                                  SCHEDULE III

                       EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
              REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (CONTINUED)
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998,
and 1997 are as follows:




                                      S-12


