
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
                                  FORM 10-K
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D. C.  20549

            [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 For the Fiscal Year Ended DECEMBER 31, 1997

                                      OR

          [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                       Commission File Number: 1-12252

                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
            (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

             MARYLAND                             13-3675988
   (State or Other Jurisdiction of      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   Incorporation or Organization)

TWO NORTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS               60606
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)                (Zip Code)

                                (312) 474-1300
             (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Shares of Beneficial Interest,              New York Stock Exchange
        $0.01 Par Value                          (Name of Each Exchange on
        (Title of Class)                             Which Registered)

 Preferred Shares of  Beneficial                   New York Stock Exchange
    Interest, $0.01 Par Value                    (Name of Each Exchange on
        (Title of Class)                             Which Registered)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:     None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes     X     No
                                                       ---         ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers  pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of voting shares held by non-affiliates was
approximately 4.6 billion based upon the closing price on March 12, 1998 of $49
using beneficial ownership of shares rules adopted pursuant to Section 13 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to exclude voting shares owned by Trustees and
Officers, some of whom may not be held to be affiliates upon judicial
determination.

At March 13, 1998, 95,798,559 of the Registrant's Common Shares of Beneficial
Interest were outstanding.

 
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part II incorporates by reference the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
dated March 1, 1996 and filed on March 7, 1996.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form S-11 on May 21, 1993 (Registration No. 33-63158) and as amended
thereafter: Exhibit 10.2, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8 and 10.9.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Operating Partnership's Form 10 on October 7, 1994 (Registration No. 0-24920)
and as amended thereafter: Exhibit 4.1, 4.2 and 10.10.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibit as filed with the
Operating Partnership's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995 on
November 9, 1995 and as amended thereafter: Exhibit 10.1.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form 10-K on March 16, 1995 and as amended thereafter: Exhibit 10.3.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 on March 20, 1997 and
as amended thereafter: Exhibit 10.11.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibit as filed with the
Company's Form 8-K dated September 10, 1997 and filed on September 10, 1997:
Exhibit 10.12.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form 8-K dated May 30, 1997 and filed on June 5, 1997: Exhibit 3.1
and 3.2.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibit as filed with the
Company's Form 8-K dated January 16, 1997 and filed on January 17, 1997:
Exhibit 2.1.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following appendix as filed with the
Company's Form S-4 filed on April 29, 1997: Exhibit 2.2.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibit as filed with the
Company's Form 8-K dated August 27, 1997 and filed on August 29, 1997: Exhibit
2.3.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following appendix as filed with the
Company's Form S-4 filed on September 18, 1997: Exhibit 2.4.

Part IV incorporates by reference the following exhibits as filed with the
Company's Form S-4 filed on September 18, 1997: Exhibit 10.13 and 10.14.


 
                                    PART I

                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST

                              
PART I.                                                             PAGE
                                                                    ----

        Item 1. Business                                              4
        Item 2. Properties                                           20
        Item 3. Legal Proceedings                                    49
        Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
                Holders                                              49

PART II.

        Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
                Shareholder Matters                                  50
        Item 6. Selected Financial Data                              51
        Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                Condition and Results of Operations                  54
        Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data          66
        Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
                Accounting and Financial Disclosure                  66

PART III.

        Item 10.  Trustees and Executive Officers of the Registrant  67
        Item 11.  Executive Compensation                             67
        Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                  and Management                                     67
        Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions     67

PART IV.

        Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and
                  Reports on Form 8-K                                68


 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

        Equity Residential Properties Trust ("EQR") is a self-administered and
self-managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT").  EQR was organized
in March 1993 and commenced operations on August 18, 1993 upon completion of
its initial public offering (the "EQR IPO") of 13,225,000 common shares of
beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Shares"). The Company
was formed to continue the multifamily property business objectives and
acquisition strategies of certain affiliated entities controlled by Mr. Samuel
Zell, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Company.  These entities had
been engaged in the acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily
residential properties since 1969.  As used herein, the term "Company"
includes EQR and those entities owned or controlled by it, as the survivor of
the mergers between EQR and each of Wellsford Residential Property Trust
("Wellsford") (the "Wellsford Merger") and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc.
("EWR") (the "EWR Merger").

        The Company's subsidiaries include ERP Operating Limited Partnership
(the "Operating Partnership"), Evans Withycombe Residential, L.P. (the "EWR
Operating Partnership"), Equity Residential Properties Management Limited
Partnership and Equity Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership
II (collectively, the "Management Partnerships"), a series of partnerships
(the "Financing Partnerships") and limited liability companies ("LLCs"), which
beneficially own certain properties encumbered by mortgage indebtedness.

        As of December 31, 1997, the Company owned or had interests in 489
multifamily properties, of which it controlled a portfolio of 463 multifamily
properties (individually, a "Property" and collectively, the "Properties")
containing 135,200 units.  The remaining 26 properties represent an investment
in partnership interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21
properties and mortgage loans collateralized by five properties (collectively,
the "Additional Properties") containing 5,267 units. Of the 5,267 units, 1,371
units are property managed by third party unaffiliated entities. The Company's
Properties and the Additional Properties are located throughout the United
States in the following states:  Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington
and Wisconsin.  In addition, Equity Residential Properties Management Corp.
("Management Corp.") and Equity Residential Properties Management Corp. II
("Management Corp. II") also provide residential property and asset management
services to 29 properties containing 9,295 units owned by affiliated entities.
The Company is, together with the Operating Partnership, one of the largest
publicly traded REITs (based on the aggregate market value of its outstanding
Common Shares) and is the largest publicly traded REIT owner of multifamily
properties (based on the number of apartment units owned and total revenues
earned).

        Since the EQR IPO and through December 31, 1997, the Company, through
the Operating Partnership, has acquired direct or indirect interests in 412
properties (which included the debt


 
                                    PART I

collateralized by six Properties) containing 118,510 units in the aggregate
for a total purchase price of approximately $6.5 billion, including the
assumption of approximately $1.5 billion of mortgage indebtedness.  The
Company also made an $89 million investment in partnership interests and
subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 of the Additional Properties (its
"$89 Million Mortgage Note Investment") and an $88 million investment in
mortgage loans collateralized by 5 of the Additional Properties (its "$88
Million Mortgage Note Investment"). Since the EQR IPO through December 31,
1997, the Company has disposed of 18 properties, a portion of one Property,
containing 5,035 units, and a vacant land parcel for a total sales price of
approximately $129.8 million and the release of mortgage indebtedness in the
amount of $20.5 million.

        The Company's corporate headquarters and executive offices are located
in Chicago, Illinois. In addition, the Company has 29 management offices in the
following cities: Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, Texas;
Denver, Colorado; Bethesda, Maryland; Atlanta, Georgia; Las Vegas, Nevada;
Scottsdale and Tucson, Arizona; Portland, Oregon; Ypsilanti, Michigan; Charlotte
and Raleigh, North Carolina; Tampa, Jacksonville and Ft. Lauderdale, Florida;
Irvine, Pleasant Hill and Stockton, California; Kansas City, Kansas;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Louisville, Kentucky; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Boston,
Massachusetts; Federal Way, Redmond and Seattle, Washington; and Nashville and
Memphis, Tennessee. The Company has approximately 4,200 employees. Each of the
Company's Properties is directed by an on-site manager, who supervises the on-
site employees and is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Property.
The manager is generally assisted by a leasing administrator and/or property
administrator. In addition, a maintenance director at each Property supervises a
maintenance staff whose responsibilities include a variety of tasks, including
responding to service requests, preparing vacant apartments for the next
resident and performing preventive maintenance procedures year-round.

BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND OPERATING STRATEGIES

        The Company seeks to maximize both current income and long-term growth
in income, thereby increasing:  (i) the value of the Properties; (ii)
distributions on a per Common Share basis; and (iii) shareholders' value.

        The Company's strategies for accomplishing these objectives are:

- -       maintaining and increasing Property occupancy while increasing rental
        rates;

- -       controlling expenses, providing regular preventive maintenance, making
        periodic renovations and enhancing amenities;

- -       maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total market
        capitalization of less than 50%; and

- -       pursuing acquisitions that: (i) are available at prices below
        estimated replacement costs;  (ii) have potential for rental rate
        and/or occupancy increases;  (iii) have attractive locations in their
        respective markets; and (iv) provide anticipated total returns that
        will increase the Company's distributions per Common Share and the
        Shareholder's value.


 
                                    PART I

- -       Purchasing newly developed as well as co-investing in the development
        of multifamily communities in the Company's existing target markets
        where the market conditions warrant such development.

        The Company is committed to tenant satisfaction by striving to
anticipate industry trends and implementing strategies and policies consistent
with providing quality tenant services.  In addition, the Company continuously
surveys rental rates of competing properties and conducts satisfaction surveys
of residents to determine the factors they consider most important in choosing
a particular apartment unit.

ACQUISITION STRATEGIES

        The Company anticipates that future property acquisitions will be
located in the continental United States.  Management will continue to use
market information to evaluate acquisition opportunities.  The Company's
market data base allows it to review the primary economic indicators of the
markets where the Company currently manages Properties and where it expects to
expand its operations.  Acquisitions may be financed from various sources of
capital, which may include undistributed funds from operations ("FFO"),
issuance of additional equity securities, sales of Properties and
collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings.  In addition, the Company may
acquire additional multifamily properties in transactions that include the
issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership ("OP
Units") as consideration for the acquired properties.  Such transactions may,
in certain circumstances, partially defer the sellers' tax consequences.

        When evaluating potential acquisitions, the Company will consider: (i)
the geographic area and type of community; (ii) the location, construction
quality, condition and design of the property; (iii) the current and projected
cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow; (iv) the
potential for capital appreciation of the property; (v) the terms of resident
leases, including the potential for rent increases; (vi) the potential for
economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in
which the property is located; (vii) the occupancy and demand by residents for
properties of a similar type in the vicinity (the overall market and
submarket); (viii) the prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or
refinancing of the property; and (ix) competition from existing multifamily
properties and the potential for the construction of new multifamily
properties in the area.  The Company expects to purchase multifamily
properties with physical and market characteristics similar to the Properties.

DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES

        The Company seeks to acquire newly constructed properties and make
investments towards the development of properties in markets where it discerns
strong demand, which the Company believes will enable it to achieve superior
rates of return.  The Company's current communities under development and
future developments are in markets or will be in markets where certain market
demographics justify the development of high quality multifamily communities.
In evaluating whether to develop an apartment community in a particular
location,


 
                                    PART I

the Company analyzes relevant demographic, economic and financial data.
Specifically, the Company considers the following factors, among others, in
determining the viability of a potential new apartment community: (i) income
levels and employment growth trends in the relevant market, (ii) uniqueness of
location, (iii) household growth and net migration of the relevant market's
population, (iv) supply/demand ratio, competitive housing alternatives, sub-
market occupancy and rent levels (v) barriers to entry that would limit
competition, and (vi) the purchase price and yields of available existing
stabilized communities, if any.

DISPOSITION STRATEGIES

        Management will use market information to evaluate dispositions.
Factors the Company considers in deciding whether to dispose of its Properties
include the following:  (i) potential increases in new construction; (ii)
areas where the economy is expected to decline substantially; and (iii)
markets where the Company does not intend to establish long-term
concentrations.  The Company will reinvest the proceeds received from property
dispositions to fund property acquisitions.  In addition, when feasible the
Company will structure these transactions as tax deferred exchanges.

FINANCING STRATEGIES

        The Company intends to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt-to-total
market capitalization of 50% or less.  At December 31, 1997, the Company had a
ratio of approximately 33% based on the closing price of the Company's Common
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and assuming conversion of all OP Units
plus the liquidation preference of non-voting preferred shares of beneficial
interest, $0.01 par value per share ("Preferred Shares").  It is the Company's
policy that EQR shall not incur indebtedness other than short-term trade,
employee compensation, dividends payable or similar indebtedness that will be
paid in the ordinary course of business, and that indebtedness shall instead
be incurred by the Operating Partnership to the extent necessary to fund the
business activities conducted by the Operating Partnership and its
subsidiaries.

Equity Offerings For the Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

        In June 1995, the Company sold 6,120,000 of its 9 3/8% Series A
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series A Preferred Shares"), at $25 per share.  The Company
raised gross proceeds of $153 million from this offering.  The liquidation
preference of each of the Series A Preferred Shares is $25 per Series A
Preferred Share.

        In November 1995, the Company sold 5,000,000 depositary shares (the
"Series B Depositary Shares").  Each Series B Depositary Share represents a
1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series B
Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference of each of the Series B
Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series B Depositary Share).
The Company raised gross proceeds of approximately $125 million from the sale
of the Series B Depositary Shares.


 
                                    PART I

        In January 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,725,000
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.375 per share
(the "January 1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of
approximately $50.7 million in connection therewith.  In February 1996, the
Company completed an offering of 2,300,000 registered Common Shares, which
were sold at a net price of $29.50 per share (the "February 1996 Common Share
Offering") and received net proceeds of approximately $67.8 million in
connection therewith.

        On May 21, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.50
per share.  On May 28, 1996 the Company completed the sale of 73,287 publicly
registered Common Shares to employees of the Company and to employees of
Equity Group Investments, Inc. ("EGI") and certain of their respective
affiliates and consultants at a net price equal to $30.50 per share.  On May
30, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,264,400 publicly registered
Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.75 per share.  The
Company received net proceeds of approximately $111.3 million in connection
with the sale of the 3,637,687 Common Shares mentioned above (collectively,
the "May 1996 Common Share Offerings").

        In September 1996, the Company sold 4,600,000 depositary shares (the
"Series C Depositary Shares").  Each Series C Depositary Share represents a
1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series C
Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference of each of the Series C
Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series C Depositary Share).
The Company raised net proceeds of $111.4 million from this offering (the
"Series C Preferred Share Offering").

        Also in September 1996, the Company completed the sale of 2,272,728
publicly registered Common Shares which were sold at net price of $33 per
share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $75 million in
connection with this offering (the "September 1996 Common Share Offering").

        In November 1996, the Company issued 39,458 Common Shares pursuant to
the 1996 Nonqualified Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "Employee Share
Purchase Plan") at a net price of $30.44 and received net proceeds of
approximately $1.2 million.

        In December 1996, the Company completed offerings of 4,440,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$41.25 per share (the "December 1996 Common Share Offerings").  The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $177.4 million.

        In March 1997, the Company completed three separate public offerings
relating to an aggregate of 1,921,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at a price of $46 per share (the "March 1997 Common
Share Offerings").   The Company received net proceeds of approximately $88.3
million therefrom.

        On May 14, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the
"June 1997 Equity Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration
statement effective on June 5, 1997.


 
                                    PART I

        In May 1997, the Company sold 7,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series
D Depositary Shares") pursuant to the June 1997 Equity Shelf Registration.
Each Series D Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a
8.60% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest,
$0.01 par value per share  (the "Series D Preferred Shares").  The liquidation
preference of each of the Series D Preferred shares is $250.00 (equivalent to
$25 per Series D Depositary Share).  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $169.5 million from this offering (the "Series D Preferred Share
Offering").

        In June 1997, the Company completed five separate public offerings
comprising an aggregate of 8,992,023 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at prices ranging from $44.06 to $45.88 per share (the
"June 1997 Common Share Offerings").  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $398.9 million therefrom.

        On July 28, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $750 million of equity securities (the
"August 1997 Equity Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration
statement effective on August 4, 1997.

        In September 1997, the Company completed the sale of 498,000 publicly
registered Common Shares which were sold to the public at a price of $51.125
per share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $24.2 million
in connection with this offering (the "September 1997 Common Share Offering").

        In September 1997, the Company sold 11,000,000 depositary shares (the
"Series G Depositary Shares") pursuant to the August 1997 Equity Shelf
Registration.  Each Series G Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional
interest in a 7 1/4% Series G Convertible Cumulative Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series G Preferred
Shares"). Series G Depositary Shares representing Series G Preferred Shares
are convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time into Common
Shares at a conversion price of $58.58 per Common Share (equivalent to a
conversion rate of approximately .4268 Common Shares for each Series G
Depositary Share).  The liquidation preference of each of the Series G
Preferred Shares is $250.00 per share (equivalent to $25 per Series G
Depositary Share).  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $264
million from this offering (the "Series G Preferred Share Offering").  In
addition, in October 1997, the Company sold 1,650,000 additional Series G
Depositary Shares pursuant to an over-allotment option granted to the
underwriters and received net proceeds of approximately $39.6 million
therefrom.

        In October 1997, in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of
Properties, the Company issued 3,315,500 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were issued at a price of $45.25 per share with a value of approximately
$150 million (the "October 1997 Common Share Offering").

        On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan.  This registration
statement was declared effective on November 25, 1997.  The Distribution
Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP Plan") of the Company provides
holders of record and beneficial owners of Common Shares, Preferred Shares,
and limited partnership interests


 
                                    PART I

in the Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient method of investing
cash distributions in additional Common Shares.  Common Shares may also be
purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants
in the Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the
Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging
between 0% and 5% (as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan).

        In December 1997, in connection with an acquisition of a Property, the
Company issued 736,296 publicly registered Common Shares, which were issued at a
price of $48.85 per share with a value of approximately $36 million.

        Also in December 1997, the Company completed the sale of 467,722
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $51.3125 per
share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $22.8 million in
connection with this offering (the "December 1997 Common Share Offering").

        During 1997, the Company issued 84,183 Common Shares pursuant to the
Employee Share Purchase Plan at net prices which ranged from $35.63 per share
to $42.08 per share and raised approximately $3.2 million in connection
therewith.

Debt Offerings For the Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

        In April 1995, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of 7.95%
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2002 Notes") in a public debt offering (the
"Second Public Debt Offering").  The Operating Partnership received net
proceeds of approximately $123.1 million in connection with the Second Public
Debt Offering.

        In August 1996, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of 7.57%
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2026 Notes") in a public debt offering (the
"Third Public Debt Offering").  The Operating Partnership received net
proceeds of approximately $149 million in connection with this issuance.

        On September 18, 1996, the Operating Partnership filed with the SEC a
Form S-3 Registration Statement to register $500 million of debt securities
(the "1996 Debt Shelf Registration").

        In October 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2017 Notes") pursuant to the 1996 Debt Shelf
Registration in a public debt offering (the "Fourth Public Debt Offering").
The 2017 Notes are due on October 15, 2017 and bear interest at 7.125%, which
is payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15, commencing
April 15, 1998.  The 2017 Notes are redeemable at any time by the Operating
Partnership pursuant to the terms thereof.  The Operating Partnership received
net proceeds of approximately $147.4 million in connection with this issuance.

        In November 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $200 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes pursuant to the 1996 Debt Shelf Registration in a
public debt offering (the "Fifth Public Debt


 
                                    PART I

Offering").  Of the $200 million issued, $150 million of these notes are due
November 15, 2001 (the "2001 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.55%,
which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing
on May 15, 1998.  The remaining $50 million of these notes are due November
15, 2003 (the "2003 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.65%, which is
payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May
15, 1998. The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately
$198.5 million in connection with the 2001 Notes and the 2003 Notes.

CREDIT FACILITY

        On November 15, 1996, the Company completed an agreement with Morgan
Guaranty Trust Company of New York ("Morgan Guaranty") and Bank of America
Illinois ("Bank of America") to provide the Operating Partnership a $250
million unsecured line of credit.  In September 1997, this agreement was
amended to increase the potential borrowings to $500 million. This line of
credit matures in November 1999 and borrowings generally will bear interest at
a per annum rate of one, two, three or six month LIBOR, plus a certain rate
dependent upon the Company's credit rating, which rate is currently at 0.45%,
and is subject to an annual facility fee of $750,000.  As of December 31,
1997, $235 million of borrowings were outstanding on this line of credit,
bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 6.46%.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

        On May 30, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of Wellsford through the tax-free Wellsford
Merger.  The transaction was valued at approximately $1 billion and included
72 Properties of Wellsford containing 19,004 units.  The purchase price
consisted of 10.8 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a market
value of $443.7 million, the liquidation value of $157.5 million for the
Wellsford Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest and the Wellsford Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured
notes in the amount of $345 million, the assumption of other liabilities of
approximately $33.5 million and other merger related costs of approximately
$23.4 million.  In the Wellsford Merger, each outstanding common share of
beneficial interest of Wellsford was converted into .625 of a Common Share. In
addition, Wellsford Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's 3,999,800 Series E
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par
value per share (the "Series E Preferred Shares") and Wellsford's Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were
redesignated as the Company's 2,300,000 9.65% Series F Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the
"Series F Preferred Shares").

        On December 23, 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of the
multifamily property business of EWR, through the tax-free EWR Merger.  The
transaction was valued at approximately $1.2 billion and included 53
Properties of EWR containing 15,331 units and three Properties under
construction or expansion expected to contain 953 units.  The purchase price
consisted of 10.3 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a total
market value of approximately $501.6


 
                                    PART I

million, the assumption of EWR's minority interest with a market value of
approximately $107.3 million, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness and
unsecured notes in the amount of $498 million, the assumption of other
liabilities of approximately $28.2 million and other EWR Merger related costs
of approximately $16.7 million.  In the EWR Merger, each outstanding common
share of beneficial interest of EWR was converted into .50 of a Common Share.

RECENT TRANSACTIONS

        From January 1, 1998 through March 13, 1998, the Company acquired 12
properties from unaffiliated third parties for a total purchase price of
approximately $158.2 million, which included the assumption of mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $50.8 million.  These properties were Cityscape,
a 156-unit property located in St. Louis Park, Minnesota; 740 River Drive, a
162-unit property located in St. Paul, Minnesota; Prospect Towers, a 157-unit
property located in Hackensack, New Jersey; Park Westend, a 312-unit property
located in Richmond, Virginia; Park Place, a 229-unit property located in
Houston, Texas; Emerald Bay at Winter Park, a 431-unit property located in
Winter Park, Florida; Farnham Park, a 216-unit property located in Houston,
Texas; Plantation, a 232-unit property located in Houston, Texas; Balcones
Club, a 312-unit property located in Austin, Texas; Coach Lantern, a 90-unit
property located in Scarborough, Maine; Foxcroft, a 104-unit property located
in Scarborough, Maine; and Yarmouth Woods, a 138- unit property located in
Yarmouth, Maine.

        In January 1998, the Company completed the sale of 4,000,000 publicly
registered Common Shares which were sold to the public at a price of $50.4375
per share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $195.3 million
in connection with this offering (the "January 1998 Common Share Offering").

        In February 1998, the Company completed offerings in the aggregate of
1,988,340 publicly registered Common Shares which were sold to the public at
prices ranging from $48 to $50.625 per share (the "February 1998 Common Share
Offerings").   The Company received net proceeds of approximately $95 million
therefrom.

        Through February 1998, the Company sold approximately 639,000 Common
Shares pursuant to the DRIP Plan and raised proceeds of approximately $31.7
million therefrom.

        On February 3, 1998, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of equity securities.  The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998.

        On February 3, 1998, the Operating Partnership filed a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of debt securities.  The SEC
declared this registration statement effective on February 27, 1998.


        On March 12, 1998, the Company disposed of two Properties for a total 
sales price of $16.7 million.


 
                                    PART I

COMPETITION

        All of the Properties are located in developed areas that include
other multifamily properties.  The number of competitive multifamily
properties in a particular area could have a material effect on the Company's
ability to lease units at the Properties or at any newly acquired properties
and on the rents charged.  The Company may be competing with other entities
that have greater resources than the Company and whose managers have more
experience than the Company's officers and trustees.  In addition, other forms
of multifamily properties, including multifamily properties and manufactured
housing controlled by Mr. Zell, and single-family housing, provide housing
alternatives to potential residents of multifamily properties.

TAX STATUS

        The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under Section 856(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").  As a result, the
Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax to the extent it
distributes 95% of its taxable income to its shareholders.  REITs are subject
to a number of organizational and operational requirements.  If the Company
fails to qualify as a REIT in any year, its taxable income may be subject to
income tax at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative
minimum tax).  Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the
Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and
excise taxes on its undistributed income.

RISK FACTORS

        The Company's results of operations are subject to certain risks and
uncertainties relating to the operations of its Properties.  Investors should
carefully consider, among other factors, the matters described below prior to
making an investment decision regarding the securities of the Company.

Adverse Consequences of Debt Financing and Preferred Shares

        General Risks. As of December 31, 1997, the Properties were subject to
approximately $1.6 billion of mortgage indebtedness and the Company's total
debt equaled approximately $2.9 billion. Of the total debt outstanding, $912.7
million, including the line of credit balance of $235 million, represented
floating rate debt, of which approximately $611 million was issued at tax
exempt rates. In addition, from June 1995 through October 1997, the Company
issued Preferred Shares and Depositary Shares pursuant to offerings previously
mentioned and utilized the proceeds to repay indebtedness and to acquire
additional Properties.  The Company is subject to the risks normally
associated with debt or preferred equity financing, including the risk that
the Company's cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of
principal and interest as well as Preferred Share distributions, the risk that
existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of such
refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness and
the risk that necessary capital expenditures for such purposes as renovations
and other improvements may not be financed on favorable terms or at all. If
the Company were unable to refinance its indebtedness on acceptable terms, or
at all, the Company might be forced to dispose of one or more of the
Properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to the
Company and might adversely affect the


 
                                    PART I

cash available for distributions to shareholders. If interest rates or other
factors at the time of the refinancing result in higher interest rates upon
refinancing, the Company's interest expense would increase, which would affect
the Company's ability to make distributions to its shareholders. Furthermore, if
a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and the Company is
unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the
Property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or
pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of income and asset value to
the Company. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying
cash proceeds, thereby hindering the Company's ability to meet the REIT
distribution requirements of the Code.

        Restrictions on the Company's Activities. A substantial portion of the
Company's debt was issued pursuant to certain indentures (the "Indentures")
which restrict the amount of indebtedness (including acquisition financing) the
Company may incur. Accordingly, in the event that the Company is unable to raise
additional equity or borrow money because of the debt restrictions in the
Indentures, the Company's ability to acquire additional properties may be
limited. If the Company is unable to acquire additional properties, its ability
to increase the distributions with respect to Common Shares, as it has done in
the past, will be limited to management's ability to increase funds from
operations, and thereby cash available for distributions, from the existing
Properties in the Company's portfolio at such time.

        Bond Compliance Requirements. Certain of the Company's Properties are
subject to restrictive covenants or deed restrictions relating to current or
previous tax-exempt bond financing and owns the bonds collateralized by several
additional Properties. The Company has retained an independent outside
consultant to monitor compliance with the restrictive covenants and deed
restrictions that affect these Properties. The bond compliance requirements may
have the effect of limiting the Company's income from certain of these
Properties if the Company is required to lower its rental rates to attract low
or moderate income tenants, or eligible/qualified tenants.

CONTROL AND INFLUENCE BY SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS

        As of March 13, 1998, Mr. Zell, certain of the current holders (the
"Zell Holders") of certain OP Units ("Original OP Units") issued at the time of
the EQR IPO to certain affiliates of Mr. Zell which contributed 33 of the
Properties at the time of the EQR IPO (the "Zell Original Owners"), Equity
Properties Management Corp. ("EPMC") and other affiliates of Mr. Zell owned in
the aggregate approximately 4.4% of the Common Shares (assuming that all of the
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership are exchanged for Common
Shares), and certain entities controlled by Starwood Capital Partners L.P.
("Starwood") and its affiliates which contributed 23 of the Properties at the
time of the EQR IPO (the "Starwood Original Owners") owned in the aggregate
approximately 1.7% of the Common Shares (assuming that all of the OP Units are
exchanged for Common Shares). The Starwood Original Owners, together with the
Zell Original Owners, shall be referred to collectively as the "Original
Owners." As of March 13, 1998, the Company had options outstanding to purchase
approximately 5.6 million Common Shares (plus an additional 1.3 million options
to purchase Common Shares which have been authorized by the Company for issuance
subject to shareholder approval) which it has granted to certain officers,
employees and trustees of the Company and consultants to the Company, some of
whom are


 
                                    PART I

affiliated with Mr. Zell, representing in the aggregate approximately 6% of the
Common Shares outstanding (assuming that all such options are exercised for
Common Shares and all of the outstanding OP Units are exchanged for Common
Shares). Further, the consent of affiliates of Mr. Zell who are Zell Holders and
of the Starwood Original Owners is required for certain amendments to the
Operating Partnership's Fourth Amended and Restated ERP Operating Limited
Partnership Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement").
Accordingly, Mr. Zell and the Starwood Original Owners may continue to have
substantial influence over the Company, which influence might not be consistent
with the interests of other shareholders, and on the outcome of any matters
submitted to the Company's shareholders for approval. In addition, although
there is no current agreement, understanding or arrangement for these
shareholders to act together on any matter, these shareholders would be in a
position to exercise significant influence over the affairs of the Company if
they were to act together in the future.

POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY AFFECTING THE COMPANY

        Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances
and regulations, an owner of real estate may be liable for the costs of
removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on such
property. These laws often impose environmental liability without regard to
whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such
hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure
properly to remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's
ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow using the property as
collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or
toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of
such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such
facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain laws impose liability
for release of asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") into the air and third
parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for
personal injury associated with ACMs. In connection with the ownership (direct
or indirect), operation, management and development of real properties, the
Company or the Subsidiaries, as the case may be, may be considered an owner or
operator of such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or
treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, potentially liable
for removal or remediation costs, as well as for certain other related costs,
including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property.

        All of the Properties have been the subject of a Phase I, and in
certain cases a supplemental, environmental assessment completed by qualified
independent environmental consultant companies.  The most recent environmental
assessments for each of the Properties were conducted within the last five
years.  Environmental assessments were obtained prior to the acquisition by
the Company of each of the Properties.  These environmental assessments have
not revealed, nor is the Company aware of, any environmental liability that
the Company's management believes would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.

        No assurance can be given that existing environmental assessments with
respect to any of the Properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that
any prior owner of a Property did not create any material environmental


 
                                    PART I

condition not known to the Company, or that a material environmental condition
does not otherwise exist as to any one or more Properties.

GENERAL REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CONSIDERATIONS; CHANGES IN LAWS

        General. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of
risk and are relatively illiquid.  Income from real property investments and
the Company's resulting ability to make expected distributions to shareholders
may be adversely affected by the general economic climate, local conditions
such as oversupply of apartment units or a reduction in demand for apartment
units in the area, the attractiveness of the Properties to tenants, zoning or
other regulatory restrictions, the ability of the Company to provide adequate
maintenance and insurance, and increased operating costs (including insurance
premiums and real estate taxes).  The Company's income would also be adversely
affected if tenants were unable to pay rent or the Company were unable to rent
apartment units on favorable terms.  If the Company were unable to promptly
relet units or renew the leases for a significant number of apartment units,
or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting were significantly lower
than expected rates, then the Company's funds from operations and ability to
make expected distributions to shareholders may be adversely affected. In
addition, certain expenditures associated with each equity investment (such as
real estate taxes and maintenance costs) generally are not reduced when
circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. The Company
intends to purchase newly developed, as well as invest in the development of
multifamily communities, including the expansion of existing multifamily
communities.  Such projects generally require the expenditure of capital, and
consequently there can be no assurance that any of such projects will be
completed or that such projects will prove to be profitable.  The failure of
the Company to complete or to profitably operate planned development projects
may have an adverse affect on the Company's results of operations and
financial position.  Furthermore, real estate investments are relatively
illiquid and, therefore, will tend to limit the ability of the Company to vary
its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.

        Changes in Laws. Increases in real estate taxes, income taxes and
service or other taxes generally are not passed through to tenants under
existing leases and may adversely affect the Company's FFO and its ability to
make distributions to shareholders. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the
potential liability for environmental conditions existing on Properties or
increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in
significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect the
Company's FFO and its ability to make distributions to shareholders.

OWNERSHIP LIMIT AND LIMITS ON CHANGES IN CONTROL

        5% Ownership Limit; Inapplicability to Mr. Zell and Others. In order
to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% of
the value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the Company may
be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in
the Code to include certain entities). Certain beneficial owners of the Zell
Holders (i.e., beneficiaries of trusts established for the benefit of Mr. Zell
and his family and trusts established for the benefit of the family of Mr.
Robert Lurie, a deceased partner of Mr. Zell (the "Lurie Family Trusts")),
EPMC, the Starwood Original Owners, Mr. Keith Withycombe and Mr.


 
                                    PART I

Stephen Evans, a Trustee of the Company (through their potential ownership of
Common Shares), together constitute five individuals for purposes of this test
and, under the Internal Revenue Service's (the "Service") rules applicable to
determining percentages of ownership, will be deemed to own approximately 4.8%
of the value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the Company.
Due to such concentration of ownership of the Company, ownership of more than
5% or the lesser of the number or value of the outstanding shares of
beneficial interest of the Company by any single shareholder has been
restricted, with certain exceptions, for the purpose of maintaining the
Company's qualification as a REIT under the Code. Such restrictions in the
Company's Declaration of Trust do not apply to the ownership of the 5,499,403
Common Shares subject to acquisition by the holders of Original OP Units and
EPMC through the exchange of Original OP Units. Additionally, the Company's
Declaration of Trust allows certain transfers of such Common Shares without
the transferees being subject to the 5% ownership limit, provided such
transfers do not result in an increased concentration in the ownership of the
Company. The Company's Board of Trustees, upon receipt of a ruling from the
Service, an opinion of counsel or other evidence satisfactory to the Board of
Trustees and upon such other conditions as the Board of Trustees may direct,
may also exempt a proposed transferee from this restriction.

        The 5% ownership limit, as well as the ability of the Company to issue
additional Common Shares or other shares of beneficial interest (which may
have rights and preferences senior to the Common Shares), may discourage a
change of control of the Company and may also (i) deter tender offers for the
Common Shares, which offers may be advantageous to shareholders, and (ii)
limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their Common
Shares that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a
block of Common Shares in excess of 5% of the outstanding shares of beneficial
interest of the Company or otherwise effect a change of control of the
Company.

        Possible Adverse Consequences of Ownership Limit.  To maintain its
qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in
value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the Company may be
owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the
Code, to include certain entities).  Certain beneficial owners of the Zell
Holders (i.e., beneficiaries of trusts established for benefit of Mr. Zell and
his family and the Lurie Family Trusts and EPMC, together with the Starwood
Original Owners, Mr. Withycombe and Mr. Evans (through their potential
ownership of Common Shares) together constitute five individuals for purposes
of this test and, under the Service's rules applicable to determining
percentages of ownership, are deemed to own approximately 4.8% of the value of
the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the Company.  To facilitate
maintenance of its qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
the Company generally will prohibit ownership, directly or by virtue of the
attribution provisions of the Code, by any single shareholder of more than 5%
of the issued and outstanding Common Shares and generally will prohibit
ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, by
any single shareholder of more than 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of
any class or series of the Company's Preferred Shares (collectively, the
"Ownership Limit").  The Board of Trustees may, in its reasonable discretion,
waive or modify the Ownership Limit with respect to one or more persons who
would not be treated as "individuals" for purposes of the Code if it is
satisfied, based upon information required to be provided by the party seeking
the waiver, that ownership in excess of this limit will not cause


 
                                    PART I

a person who is an individual to be treated as owning Common Shares or
Preferred Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, applying the applicable
constructive ownership rules, and will not otherwise jeopardize the Company's
status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  The Company's Declaration
of Trust also exempts from the Ownership Limit certain of the beneficial
owners of the Original Owners and EPMC, who would exceed the Ownership Limit
as a result of the exchange of the OP Units for Common Shares, which OP Units
were received by them at the time of the formation of EQR. Absent any such
exemption or waiver, Common Shares or Preferred Shares acquired or held in
violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred to a trust for the
benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, with the person who acquired
such Common Shares and/or Preferred Shares in violation of the Ownership Limit
not entitled to receive any distributions thereon, to vote such Common Shares
or Preferred Shares, or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale
thereof in excess of the lesser of the price paid therefore or the amount
realized from such sale.  A transfer of Common Shares and/or Preferred Shares
to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the Ownership Limit may
be void under certain circumstances.  The Ownership Limit may have the effect
of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could
adversely affect the shareholders' ability to realize a premium over the
then-prevailing market price for the Common Shares in connection with such
transaction.

        Staggered Board. The Board of Trustees of the Company has been divided
into three classes of trustees.  As the term of each class expires, trustees
for that class will be elected for a three-year term and the trustees in the
other two classes will continue in office. The staggered terms for trustees
may impede the shareholders' ability to change control of the Company even if
a change in control were in the shareholders' interest.

        Preferred Shares. The Company's Declaration of Trust authorizes the
Board of Trustees to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial
interest, $.01 par value per share ("Preferred Shares"), and to establish the
preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert
into Common Shares) of any Preferred Shares issued.  The power to issue
Preferred Shares could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in
control of the Company even if a change in control were in the shareholders'
interest.  As of March 13, 1998, 15,343,500 Preferred Shares were issued and
outstanding.

CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO QUALIFY AS A REIT

        Taxation as a Corporation. The Company believes that it has qualified
and will continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code, commencing with its
taxable year ended December 31, 1992. However, no assurance can be given that
the Company was organized and has been operated and will be able to operate in
a manner so as to qualify or remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT
involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and
quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code
provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative
interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and
circumstances not entirely within the Company's control.

        If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year,
the Company would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable
alternative minimum tax) on its taxable


 
                                    PART I

income at corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain
statutory provisions, the Company also would be disqualified from treatment as
a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which
qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce the net earnings of the
Company available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of
the additional tax liability to the Company for the years involved.  In
addition, distributions to shareholders would no longer be required to be
made.

        Other Tax Liabilities. Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT, it
will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and
property.  In addition, the Company's management operations, which are
conducted through  the Management Partnerships, generally will be subject to
federal income tax at regular corporate rates.

DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL

        The Company is dependent on the efforts of its executive officers.
While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key
personnel, the loss of their services could have a temporary adverse effect on
the operations of the Company. Only one of these officers has entered into an
employment agreement with the Company.

DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS POTENTIALLY INCREASING INDEBTEDNESS OF THE COMPANY

        The Company may be required from time to time, under certain
circumstances, to accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned
but not yet received. In such event, or upon the repayment by the Company or
its Subsidiaries of principal on debt, the Company could have taxable income
without sufficient cash to enable the Company to meet the distribution
requirements of a REIT. Accordingly, the Company could be required to borrow
funds or liquidate investments on adverse terms in order to meet such
distribution requirements.

EXEMPTIONS FOR MR. ZELL AND OTHERS FROM MARYLAND BUSINESS COMBINATION LAW
WHICH TEND TO INHIBIT TAKEOVERS

        Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended ("MGCL"),
certain "business combinations" (including a merger, consolidation, share
exchange or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or
reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland real estate
investment trust and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the
voting power of the trust's shares of beneficial interest or an affiliate of
the trust who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in
question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the
trust's shares of beneficial interest (an "Interested Shareholder"), or an
affiliate of such Interested Shareholder, are prohibited for five years after
the most recent date on which the Interested Shareholder becomes an Interested
Shareholder. Thereafter, any such business combination must be recommended by
the board of trustees of such trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at
least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding
voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the
votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest
of the trust other than shares held by the Interested Shareholder with whom
(or with whose affiliate) the business combination is to be effected,


 
                                    PART I

(unless, among other conditions, the holders of the common shares of the trust
receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the
consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by
the Interested Shareholder for its common shares.  As permitted by the MGCL,
the Company has exempted any business combination involving Mr. Zell, the Zell
Original Owners, EPMC and their respective affiliates and associates, present
or future, or any other person acting in concert or as a group with any of the
foregoing persons and, consequently, the five- year prohibition and the
super-majority vote requirements will not apply to a business combination
between any of them and the Company.  As a result, Mr. Zell, the Zell Original
Owners, EPMC, any present or future affiliate or associate of theirs or any
other person acting in concert or as a group with any of the foregoing persons
may be able to enter into business combinations with the Company, which may
not be in the best interest of the shareholders, without compliance by the
Company with the super-majority vote requirements and other provisions of the
MGCL.

ITEM 2.  THE PROPERTIES

        As of December 31, 1997, the Company controlled a portfolio of 463
multifamily Properties located in 34 states containing 135,200 apartment
units.  The average number of units per Property was approximately 293.  The
units are typically contained in a series of two-story buildings.  The
Properties contain an aggregate of 118.9 million rentable square feet, with an
average unit size of 886 square feet.  The average rent per unit was $696 and
the average rent per square foot was $0.79.

        As of December 31, 1997, the Properties had an average occupancy rate
of 95%.  Tenant leases are generally year-to-year and require security
deposits.  The Properties typically provide residents with attractive
amenities, which may include a clubhouse, swimming pool, laundry facilities
and cable television access.  Certain Properties offer additional amenities
such as saunas, whirlpools, spas, sports courts and exercise rooms.

        The Company believes that the Properties provide amenities and common
facilities that create an attractive residence for tenants.  It is
management's role to monitor compliance with Property policies and to provide
preventive maintenance of the Properties including common areas, facilities
and amenities.  The Company holds periodic meetings of its Property management
personnel for training and implementation of the Company's strategies. The
Company believes that, due in part to this strategy, the Properties
historically have had high occupancy rates.

        The distribution of the Properties throughout the United States
reflects the Company's belief that geographic diversification helps insulate
the portfolio from regional and economic influences. At the same time, the
Company has sought to create clusters of Properties within each of its primary
markets in order to achieve economies of scale in management and operation;
however, the Company may acquire additional multifamily properties located
anywhere in the United States.

        The Company beneficially owns fee simple title to 456 of the
Properties and holds a 73-year leasehold interest with respect to one Property
(Mallgate).  Direct fee simple title for certain of the Properties is owned by
single-purpose nominee corporations or land trusts that engage in no 


 
business other than holding title to the Property for the benefit of the
Company. Holding title in such a manner is expected to make it less costly to
transfer such Property in the future in the event of a sale and should
facilitate financing, since lenders often require title to a Property to be held
in a single purpose entity in order to isolate that Property from potential
liabilities of other Properties. Direct fee simple title for certain other
Properties is owned by an LLC. In addition, with respect to two Properties, the
Company owns the debt collateralized by such Properties and with respect to four
Properties, the Company owns an interest in the debt collateralized by the
Properties. As of December 31, 1997, the Company had an investment in
partnership interests and subordinated mortgages and mortgage loans
collateralized by the Additional Properties. The Additional Properties contain
5,267 units, located in seven states.

        The following two tables set forth certain information relating to the
Properties and the Additional Properties:


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
                         PROPERTIES- CONTINUED


(1) Encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(2) Includes La Costa Brava (JAX) and Cedar Cove.
(3) Includes Fox Run, Greenwood Forest, Walnut Ridge, and Williamsburg.
(4) Includes Port Royale I, Port Royale II, and Lincoln Harbor.
    Lincoln Harbor is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(5) Northwoods Village is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(6) Greenwich Woods is encumbered by a third party mortgage.
(7) Acreage is for combined phases.
(8) Includes Paces Station and Paces on the Green.


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
        PROPERTIES- Continued
        Development  and Construction Activity
        The apartment communities under construction and in lease up are
        listed below:



 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES (continued)
        ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES
 


 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES (continued)
        ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES


(9)     All of these Additional Properties are encumbered by mortgages,
        of which the Company has an investment in the second and third
        mortgages (which are subordinate to first mortgages owned by
        third party unaffiliated entities).

(10)    The Company has an investment in six mortgage loans
        collateralized by these Additional Properties.


 
                                    PART I

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        Richard M. Perlman, a former employee of companies controlled by Mr.
Zell, filed a legal proceeding against Mr. Zell and various partnerships and
corporations controlled by Mr. Zell claiming, inter alia, that he had an
                                              ----------
interest in 20 of 46 of the Initial Properties (the "Zell Properties") and
that he suffered damages when those Properties were transferred into the REIT.
The proceeding was filed on July 21, 1995 (Richard M. Perlman et al. v. Samuel
                                           -----------------------------------
Zell, et al.) (United States District Court for the Northern District of
- ------------
Illinois-Eastern Division, Case No. 95 C 4242). The Company is not a party to
this lawsuit.  This action has proceeded to a jury verdict and the Company has
incurred no liability and will incur no losses in connection with such action.

        In addition, only ordinary routine litigation incidental to the
business which is not deemed material was initiated during the year ended
December 31, 1997.  The Company does not believe there is any other
litigation, except as mentioned in the previous paragraph, threatened against
the Company other than routine litigation arising out of the ordinary course
of business, some of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance,
none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial statements of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        On December 23, 1997, a special meeting of shareholders was held
whereby the shareholders were asked to approve the EWR Merger.  Of the votes
that were collected, there were 55,803,089 votes for the EWR Merger, 224,294
votes against the EWR Merger and 102,495 abstentions.


 
                                   PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS
         MATTERS

        The following table sets forth for the periods indicated, the high and
low sales prices for and the distributions paid on the Company's Common Shares
which trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol EQR.




        In addition, on March 2, 1998, the Company declared a $0.67
distribution per Common Share payable on April 10, 1998 to shareholders of
record on March 27, 1998.

        The number of beneficial holders of Common Shares at December 31,
1997, was approximately 34,665.  The number of outstanding Common Shares as of
December 31, 1997 was 89,085,265.


 
                                   PART II

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        The following table sets forth selected financial and operating
information on a historical basis for the Company and EQR's Predecessor
Business.  The following information should be read in conjunction with all of
the financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form
10-K.  The historical operating data for the years ended December 31, 1995,
1994, and 1993 have been derived from the historical Financial Statements of
the Company and EQR's Predecessor Business audited by Grant Thornton L.L.P.,
independent accountants.  The historical operating data for the years ended
December 31, 1997 and  1996 have been derived from the historical Financial
Statements of the Company audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors.
The net income per weighted average Common Share amounts have been presented
and, where appropriate, restated as required to comply with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per Share.   For a further
discussion of net income per weighted average Common Share and the impact of
Statement No. 128, see Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements as included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Certain capitalized terms
as used herein, are defined in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.


 
                  EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED HISTORICAL, INCLUDING EQR'S PREDECESSOR BUSINESS
     (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE AND PROPERTY DATA)




 
                                   PART II

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INFORMATION (COMBINED HISTORICAL
         (CONTINUED))

(1) Historical results for the year ended December 31, 1993 included combined
results of EQR's Predecessor Business for the period January 1, 1993 through
August 17, 1993.

(2) Includes approximately $36 million of construction in progress as of
December 31, 1997.

(3) In August 1995 the Company also made its $89 million Mortgage Note
Investment collateralized by 21 of the Additional Properties.  In addition, in
April 1997, the Company made its $88 million Mortgage Note Investment
collateralized by five of the Additional Properties.  The Additional
Properties consist of 5,267 units.

(4) The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the performance
of real estate companies, including an equity REIT.  The new definition of FFO
adopted in March 1995 by the Board of Governors of the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") defines FFO as net income (loss)
(computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP"), excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and sales of
property, plus depreciation on real estate assets, and after adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO
on the same basis. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to investors as a
measure of the performance of an equity REIT because, along with cash flows
from operating activities, financing activities and investing activities, it
provides investors an understanding of the ability of the Company to incur and
service debt and to make capital expenditures.  FFO does not represent cash
generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore
should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of the
Company's performance or to net cash flows from operating activities as
determined by GAAP as a measure of liquidity and is not necessarily indicative
of cash available to fund cash needs. The Company's calculation of FFO
represents net income available to Common Shares, excluding gains on
dispositions of properties, gains on early extinguishment of debt, and
write-off of unamortized costs on refinanced debt, plus depreciation on real
estate assets, income allocated to Minority Interests and amortization of
deferred financing costs related to the Predecessor Business.  The Company's
calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO
utilized by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other
REITs.  The Company's calculation of FFO for 1995 and 1994 has been restated
to reflect the effects of the new definition as mentioned above.  FFO for the
year ended December 31, 1994 includes the effect of a one-time charge of
approximately $879,000 for the relocation of the property management
headquarters to Chicago.  In addition, FFO for the year ended December 31,
1993 excludes the effect of refinancing costs of approximately $3.3 million
which represented costs associated with the prepayment of certain mortgage
loans.


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7.  OVERVIEW

        The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and
financial condition of the Company should be read in conjunction with
"Selected Financial Data" and the historical Consolidated Financial Statements
thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Due to the Company's ability
to control the Operating Partnership, the EWR Operating Partnership, the
Management Partnerships, the Financing Partnerships and the LLCs, each entity
has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.

        Forward-looking statements in this report are made pursuant to the
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.  The words "believes", "expects" and "anticipates" and other similar
expressions which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends and
which do not relate solely to historical matters, identify forward-looking
statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties, which could cause actual results, performance, or achievements
of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not
limited to, the following:  the alternative sources of capital to the Company
are too high; occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by
local economic and market conditions, which are beyond the Company's control;
and additional factors as discussed in Part I of the Annual Report as filed on
Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  The
Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these
forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        Since EQR's IPO and through December 31, 1997, the Company has
acquired direct or indirect interests in 412 properties (the "Acquired
Properties"), containing 118,510 units in the aggregate for a total purchase
price of approximately $6.5 billion, including the assumption of approximately
$1.5 billion of mortgage indebtedness and $0.4 billion of unsecured notes.
The Company's interest in six of the Acquired Properties at the time of
acquisition thereof consisted solely of ownership of the debt collateralized
by such Acquired Properties. The Company purchased ten of such Acquired
Properties or 2,694 units between the IPO and December 31, 1993 (the "1993
Acquired Properties"); 84 of such Acquired Properties or 26,286 units in 1994
(the "1994 Acquired Properties"); 17 of such Acquired Properties or 5,035
units in 1995 (the "1995 Acquired Properties"); 49 of such Acquired Properties
consisting of 15,665 units in 1996 (the "1996 Acquired Properties"); and 252
of such Acquired Properties consisting of 68,830 units in 1997 (the "1997
Acquired Properties"), which include the Properties acquired in connection
with the Wellsford Merger and the EWR Merger (collectively, the "Mergers").
The Acquired Properties are presented in the Consolidated and Combined
Financial Statements of the Company from the date of each acquisition or the
closing dates of the Mergers.  In addition, in August 1995, the Company made
its $89 Million Mortgage Note Investment collateralized by 21 of the
Additional Properties.  Also in April 1997, the Company made its $88 Million
Mortgage Note Investment


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

collateralized by five of the Additional Properties.

        During 1995, the Company disposed of six properties containing 2,445
units (the "1995 Disposed Properties").  During 1996, the Company disposed of
five properties containing 1,254 units (the "1996 Disposed Properties").
During 1997 the Company disposed of seven properties, a portion of one
property and a vacant land parcel containing 1,336 units (the "1997 Disposed
Properties").

        The Company's overall results of operations for the three years ended
December 31, 1997 have been significantly impacted by the Company's
acquisition activity.  The significant changes in rental revenues, property
and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, depreciation
expense, property management and interest expense can all primarily be
attributed to the acquisition of the Acquired Properties.  The impact of the
Acquired Properties is discussed in greater detail in the following
paragraphs.

        Properties that the Company owned for all of both 1997 and 1996
representing 49,805 units (the "1997 Same Store Properties") and Properties
that the Company owned for all of both 1996 and 1995 representing 45,699 units
(the "1996 Same Store Properties") also impacted the Company's results of
operations and are discussed as well in the following paragraphs.

        COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 TO THE YEAR ENDED
        DECEMBER 31, 1996

        For the year ended December 31, 1997, income before gain on
disposition of properties, extraordinary item and allocation to Minority
Interests increased by $79 million when compared to the year ended December
31, 1996. This increase was primarily due to increases in rental revenues net
of increases in property and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and
insurance, property management expenses, depreciation, interest expense and
general and administrative expenses. All of the increases in the various line
item accounts mentioned above can be primarily attributed to the 1997 Acquired
Properties and 1996 Acquired Properties.  These increases were partially
offset by the 1997 Disposed Properties and the 1996 Disposed Properties.  The
increase in interest income of $7.5 million earned on the Company's mortgage
note investments is primarily attributable to its $88 Million Mortgage Note
Investment as well as an increase in interest income earned on its $89 Million
Mortgage Note Investment.

        In regard to the 1997 Same Store Properties, rental revenues increased
by approximately $11.9 million or 3.1% primarily as a result of higher rental
rates charged to new tenants and tenant renewals.  Overall property operating
expenses which include property and maintenance, real estate taxes and
insurance and an allocation of property management expenses decreased
approximately $1.5 million or 0.9%.  This decrease was primarily the result of
lower medical and health care insurance costs, which resulted in lower payroll
costs.  In addition, the Company was also successful in reducing its costs for
leasing and advertising as well as building, maintenance and grounds  costs by
consolidating its vendor services in selected submarkets in order to obtain
volume


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

pricing discounts and by consolidating its personnel in selected submarkets
where Properties were centrally located.  With respect to the lower medical
and health care insurance costs, the Company believes this is not a
sustainable trend but only benefited the 1997 results.

        Property management represents expenses associated with the management
of the Company's Properties.  These expenses increased by approximately $9.3
million primarily due to the continued expansion of the Company's property
management business to facilitate the management of the Company's additional
properties.  During 1997, the Company  opened new management offices in
Houston, Texas; Ypsilanti, Michigan; Kansas City, Kansas; Irvine, California;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Louisville, Kentucky.
In addition, the Company assumed a management office in Tulsa, Oklahoma,
related to the Wellsford Merger and significantly expanded a management office
in Scottsdale, Arizona related to the EWR Merger.

        Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management
expenses are associated with the management of properties not owned by the
Company that are managed for affiliates. These expenses decreased by $0.5
million due to the disposition of certain of these properties, resulting in
the Company no longer providing fee and asset management services to such
properties.

        Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $38.3 million.  This increase was primarily the
result of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which
increased by $564.5 million, primarily due to the Wellsford Merger.  However,
the Company's effective interest costs decreased from 7.87% in 1996 to 7.5% in
1997.

        General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $5.2 million between the years under
comparison.  This increase was primarily due to adding corporate personnel,
higher salary costs and shareholder reporting costs as well as an increase in
professional fees.  General and administrative expenses as a percentage of
total revenues were 2.02% for the year ended December 31, 1997, which was a
slight decrease from 2.06% in 1996.

        COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 TO THE YEAR ENDED
        DECEMBER 31, 1995

        For the year ended December 31, 1996, income before gain on
disposition of properties, extraordinary items and allocation to Minority
Interests increased by $37.3 million when compared to the year ended December
31, 1995. This increase was primarily due to increases in rental revenues net
of increases in property and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and
insurance, property management expenses, depreciation, interest expense and
general and administrative expenses. All of the increases in the various line
item accounts mentioned above can be primarily attributed to the 1996 Acquired
Properties and 1995 Acquired Properties.  These increases were partially
offset by the 1996 Disposed Properties and the 1995 Disposed Properties.
Interest income


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

earned on the Company's mortgage note investment increased by approximately $8
million and was an additional factor that impacted the year to year change.

        In regard to the 1996 Same Store Properties, rental revenues increased
by approximately $15.9 million or 4.8% primarily  as a result of higher rental
rates charged to new tenants and tenant renewals and higher average occupancy
levels.  Overall property operating expenses which include property and
maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance and an allocation of property
management expenses increased approximately $1.7 million or 1.2%.  This
increase was primarily the result of higher payroll expenses and utility
costs.  For 1996 the Company also increased its per unit charge for property
level insurance which increased insurance expense by approximately $0.7
million.  In addition, real estate taxes increased due to reassessments on
certain of the 1996 Same Store Properties.

        Property management represents expenses associated with the management
of the Company's Properties.  These expenses increased by approximately $2.3
million primarily as a result of the expansion of the Company's property
management business with the addition of a management office in Seattle,
Washington and during the third quarter of 1996 the addition of two new
management offices located in Raleigh, North Carolina and Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida.  Other factors that impacted this increase were higher payroll and
travel costs and legal and professional fees.

        Fee and asset management revenues and fee and asset management
expenses are associated with the management of properties not owned by the
Company that are managed for affiliates. These revenues decreased by $0.3
million primarily due to the disposition of certain of these properties.

        Interest expense, including amortization of deferred financing costs,
increased by approximately $3.8 million.  This increase was primarily the
result of an increase in the Company's average indebtedness outstanding which
increased by $75.8 million.  However, the Company's effective interest cost
decreased from 8.09% in 1995 to 7.87% in 1996.

        General and administrative expenses, which include corporate operating
expenses, increased approximately $1.7 million between the years under
comparison.  This increase was primarily due to adding corporate personnel,
higher salary costs and shareholder reporting costs as well as an increase in
professional fees.  General and administrative expenses as a percentage of
total revenues were 2.06% for the year ended December 31, 1996, which was a
slight decrease from 2.08% in 1995.


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

        As of January 1, 1997, the Company had approximately $147.3 million of
cash and cash equivalents and $250 million available on its line of credit.
After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following
paragraphs, cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 1997 were approximately
$33.3 million and the amounts available on the Company's line of credit were
$265 million, of which $24.7 million is restricted.  In addition, the Company
had $6.6 million of proceeds from a property sale included in
deposits-restricted.  The following discussion also explains the changes in
net cash provided by operating activities, net cash (used for) investing
activities and net cash provided by financing activities, all of which are
presented in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

        Part of the Company's strategy in funding the purchase of multifamily
properties, excluding those Properties acquired through the Mergers, is to
utilize its line of credit and to subsequently repay the line of credit from
the issuance of additional equity or debt securities.  Continuing to employ
this strategy, during 1997 the Company and/or the Operating Partnership:  (i)
issued a total of approximately 11.9 million Common Shares through various
offerings, other than issuances in connection with the acquisitions of
Properties and received total net proceeds of approximately $536.8 million,
(ii) completed the offerings of the Series D Preferred Shares and the Series G
Preferred Shares and received net proceeds of approximately $473.1 million and
(iii) issued the 2017 Notes, the 2001 Notes and the 2003 Notes and received
net proceeds of approximately $345.9 million.  All of these proceeds have been
or will be utilized to purchase additional properties and/or repay the line of
credit and mortgage indebtedness on certain Properties.

        With respect to Property acquisitions during the year, including the
effects of the Mergers, the Company purchased 252 Properties containing 68,830
units for a total purchase price of approximately $4.1 billion, including the
issuances of 25.1 million Common Shares, the assumption of EWR's minority
interest with a market value of approximately $107.3 million, the liquidation
value of $157.5 million for the Series E Preferred Shares and Series F
Preferred Shares, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes
of approximately $1.3 billion and issuance of OP Units with a value of
approximately $5.3 million. The cash portion of these acquisitions were
primarily funded from amounts drawn on the Company's line of credit and
proceeds received in connection with the transactions mentioned in the
previous paragraph.

        During the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company also disposed of
seven properties, a portion of one Property and a vacant land parcel which
generated net proceeds of approximately $35.8 million. Proceeds from the
dispositions were ultimately applied to purchase additional Properties.

        As of December 31, 1997, the Company had total indebtedness of
approximately $2.9 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $1.6
billion (including premiums of $3.9


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

million), of which $723 million represented tax exempt bond indebtedness, and
unsecured debt of $1.4 billion (including net discounts and premiums in the
amount of $5.7 million). During the year, the Company repaid an aggregate of
$113.4 million of mortgage indebtedness on 29 of its Properties.  In addition,
the Floating Rate Notes were repaid at maturity on December 22, 1997. These
repayments were funded from the Company's line of credit or from proceeds
received from the various capital transactions mentioned in previous
paragraphs.

        The Company has, from time to time, entered into interest rate
protection agreements (financial instruments) to reduce the potential impact
of increases in interest rates but believes it has limited exposure to the
extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each protection agreement
since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company
does not anticipate their non-performance.  No such financial instrument has
been used for trading purposes.  In February 1996, the Company entered into
two interest rate protection agreements that were intended to hedge the
Company's interest rate risk at maturity of $175 million of indebtedness.  The
first agreement hedged the interest rate risk of $50 million of mortgage loans
scheduled to mature in September 1997 by locking the five year Treasury Rate,
commencing October 1, 1997.  This agreement was cancelled in July 1997, at no
cost to the Company, in conjunction with a new interest rate agreement
discussed below.  The second agreement hedged the interest rate risk of the
Operating Partnership's 1999 Notes by locking the effective four year Treasury
Rate commencing May 15, 1999.  There was no current cost to the Company for
entering into these agreements.  In July 1997, the Company entered into two
interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix the interest rate cost
of the Company's 2001 Notes and 2003 Notes.  One agreement was for a notional
amount of $100 million with a locked in treasury rate at 6.134%.  The second
agreement was for a notional amount of $75 million with a locked in treasury
rate of 6.287%.  The fair value of these instruments as of December 31, 1997
approximates their carrying or contract values.

        The Company has a policy of capitalizing expenditures made for new
assets, including newly acquired properties and the costs associated with
placing these assets into service. Expenditures for improvements and
renovations that significantly enhance the value of existing assets or
substantially extend the useful life of an asset are also capitalized.
Capital spent for replacement-type items such as appliances, draperies,
carpeting and floor coverings, mechanical equipment and certain furniture and
fixtures is also capitalized.  Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and
repairs are expensed to operations as incurred.  With respect to acquired
properties, the Company has determined that it generally spends $1,000 per
unit during its first three years of ownership to fully improve and enhance
these properties to meet the Company's standards.  In regard to
replacement-type items described above, the Company generally expects to spend
$300 per unit on an annual recurring basis.

        During the year ended December 31, 1997, total capital expenditures
for the Company approximated $60 million.  Of this amount, approximately $9.5
million related to capital improvements and major repairs for certain of the
1995, 1996 and 1997 Acquired Properties.


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

Capital improvements and major repairs for all of the Company's pre- EQR IPO
properties and certain Acquired Properties approximated $19.4 million, or $217
per unit.  Capital spent for replacement-type items approximated $21.4
million, or $239 per unit, which is in line with the Company's expected annual
recurring per unit cost.  Also included in total capital expenditures was
approximately $9.7 million expended for non-real estate additions such as
computer software, computer equipment, furniture and fixtures and leasehold
improvements for the Company's property management offices and its corporate
headquarters.  Such capital expenditures were primarily funded from working
capital reserves and from net cash provided by operating activities. Total
capital expenditures for 1998 are budgeted to be approximately $94.5 million,
which includes approximately $29.7 million related to capital improvements and
major repairs for certain of the 1995, 1996 and 1997 Acquired Properties.

        Minority Interests as of December 31, 1997 increased by $122.8 million
when compared to December 31, 1996.  The primary factors that impacted this
account during the year were the assumption of the EWR minority interest
having a market value of $107.3 million, distributions declared to Minority
Interests, which amounted to $19.1 million for the year, the allocation of its
income from operations in the amount of $13.3 million, the conversion of OP
Units into Common Shares and issuances of Common Shares during the year.

        Total distributions paid in 1997 amounted to $292.1 million, which
included the distributions declared in the fourth quarter of 1996.  The fourth
quarter of 1997 distributions to Common Shares holders and Minority Interests
were paid on December 30, 1997.  On March 2, 1998, the Company declared a
$0.67 distribution per Common Share, $0.585938 per Series A Preferred Share,
$0.570313 per Series B Depositary Share and  Series C Depositary Share,
$0.5375 per Series D Depositary Share, $0.603125 per Series F Preferred Share
and a $0.453125 per Series G Depositary Share payable to shareholders of
record on March 27, 1998. The Common Share distributions will be paid on April
10, 1998 and the Preferred and Depositary Share distributions will be paid on
April 15, 1998.  Also on March 2, 1998, the Company declared a $0.4375 per
Series E Preferred Share payable to shareholders of record on March 13, 1998.
This Preferred Share distribution will be paid on April 1, 1998.

        Subsequent to December 31, 1997 and through March 12, 1998, the
Company acquired 12 additional properties representing 2,539 units for a total
purchase price of approximately $158.2 million, including the assumption of
approximately $50.8 million of mortgage indebtedness.  These acquisitions were
funded from proceeds of the January 1998 Common Share Offering.  The Company
is actively seeking to acquire additional multifamily properties with physical
and market characteristics similar to the Properties.  During the remainder of
1998, the Company expects to acquire between 10,000 to 15,000 multifamily
units.  However, there is no assurance that this level of property
acquisitions can be achieved.

        In January 1998, the Company received proceeds of approximately $195.3
million from the January 1998 Common Share Offering.  These proceeds were
utilized to repay a portion on


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

the line of credit, to purchase additional properties and/or repay mortgage
indebtedness on one Property.

        In February 1998, the Company received net proceeds of approximately
$95 million from the February 1998 Common Share Offerings.  These net proceeds
were utilized to repay the remaining balance outstanding on the line of credit
and to purchase additional properties.

        Through February 1998, the Company sold approximately 639,000 Common
Shares pursuant to the DRIP Plan and raised proceeds of approximately $31.7
million.

        The Company anticipates that it may continue to sell certain
Properties in the portfolio and may sell up to 2,500 multifamily units during
1998.  However, there is no assurance that this level of property dispositions
may be achieved.

        In March 1998, the Company disposed of two Properties for a total
sales price of $16.7 million.  These proceeds will be utilized to purchase
additional Properties.

        The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements,
including capital expenditures relating to maintaining its existing
Properties, generally through its working capital, net cash provided by
operating activities and borrowings under its line of credit.  The Company
considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet
operating requirements and payments of distributions.  The Company also
expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled
mortgage debt maturities, reduction of outstanding amounts under its line of
credit, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development
activities and capital improvements through the issuance of unsecured notes
and equity securities including additional OP Units as well as from
undistributed FFO and proceeds received from the disposition of certain
Properties.  In addition, the Company has certain uncollateralized Properties
available for additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public
capital markets are unavailable to the Company or the cost of alternative
sources of capital to the Company is too high.

        In November 1996, the Company reached an agreement with Morgan
Guaranty and Bank of America to provide the Operating Partnership, with a new
credit facility with potential borrowings of up to $250 million.  In September
1997, this agreement was amended whereby the potential borrowings were
increased to $500 million.  This line of credit matures in November 1999 and
will continue to be used for property acquisitions and for any working capital
needs. As of March 13, 1998, no amounts were outstanding under this facility.

        In connection with the Wellsford Merger, the Company has provided a
standby obligation in the amount of $30 million pursuant to an agreement
entered into with Wellsford Real Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation
("WRP"), for the construction financing for a multifamily development project
located in Denver, Colorado.  In addition, the Company has


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

provided a $14.8 million credit enhancement with respect to bonds issued to
finance certain public improvements at the multifamily development project.

        In December 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement
with a multifamily residential real estate developer whereby the Company will
make investments in a limited partnership to fund its portion of the project
cost.  As of December 31, 1997, the Company funded approximately $6.9 million
in connection with this agreement.  In addition, the Company also funded $20
million to guarantee third party construction financing and will be obligated
to fund an additional $20 million in 1998.  Subsequent to December 31, 1997,
the Company has also funded approximately $9.9 million and anticipates to fund
up to an additional $85 million in 1998.

        The Company has conducted a review of its computer operating systems
and has identified those areas that could be affected by the "Year 2000" issue
and has developed a plan to resolve this issue.  The Company believes that by
modifying certain existing hardware and software and, in other cases,
converting to new application systems, the Year 2000 problem can be resolved
without significant operational difficulties.  The Company has initiated
formal communications with all of its significant suppliers to determine the
extent to which the Company's interface systems are vulnerable to those third
parties' failure to remediate their own year 2000 issues.  The Company has
also identified the cost of the Year 2000 issue and does not expect the
financial impact to be material to the Company's results of operations or
financial position.

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

        As of January 1, 1996, the Company had approximately $13.4 million of
cash and cash equivalents and $158 million available on its line of credit.
After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following
paragraphs, cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 1996 were approximately
$147.3 million and the amounts available on the Company's line of credit were
$250 million.  In addition, the Company had $3.6 million of proceeds from a
property sale included in deposits-restricted.  The following discussion also
explains the changes in net cash provided by operating activities, net cash
(used for) investing activities and net cash provided by financing activities,
all of which are presented in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows.

        During 1996 the Company and/or the Operating Partnership:  (i) issued
a total of approximately 14.4 million Common Shares through various offerings
and received total net proceeds of $483 million, (ii) completed the offering
of the Series C Preferred Shares and received net proceeds of $111.4 million,
(iii) issued the 2026 Notes and received net proceeds of $149 million and (iv)
refinanced certain of its tax-exempt bonds in two separate transactions for a
total of $112.2 million of net proceeds.  All of these proceeds were utilized
to purchase additional properties and/or repay the line of credit and mortgage
indebtedness on certain


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (CONTINUED)

Properties.

        With respect to Property acquisitions during 1996, the Company
purchased 49 Properties containing 15,665 units for a total acquisition cost
of $778.2 million, which included the assumption of $142.2 million of mortgage
indebtedness, the forgiveness of debt of $2.7 million and the issuance of OP
Units having a value of approximately $0.4 million.  These acquisitions were
primarily funded from amounts drawn on the Company's line of credit and a
portion of the proceeds received in connection with the transactions mentioned
in the previous paragraph.

        During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company also disposed of
five properties which generated net proceeds of approximately $40 million.
Proceeds from the dispositions were ultimately applied to purchase additional
Properties.

        As of December 31, 1996, the Company had total indebtedness of
approximately $1.3 billion, which included mortgage indebtedness of $755.4
million, of which $274 million represented tax exempt bond indebtedness, and
unsecured debt of $498.8 million (net of a $1.2 million discount).  During the
year, the Company repaid an aggregate of $57 million of mortgage indebtedness
on eight of its Properties.  These repayments were funded from the Company's
line of credit or from proceeds received from the various capital transactions
mentioned in previous paragraphs.

        During the year ended December 31, 1996, total capital expenditures
for the Company approximated $45.9 million.  Of this amount, approximately
$10.6 million related to capital improvements and major repairs for certain of
the 1994, 1995 and 1996 Acquired Properties. Capital improvements and major
repairs for all of the Company's pre-EQR IPO properties and certain Acquired
Properties approximated $13.8 million, or $232 per unit.  Capital spent for
replacement-type items approximated $16.3 million, or $276 per unit, which is
in line with the Company's expected annual recurring per unit cost.  In regard
to capital spent for upgrades at certain properties and tenant improvements
with respect to the retail and commercial office space at one Property, the
amount was approximately $2.9 million.  Also included in total capital
expenditures was approximately $2.3 million expended for non-real estate
additions such as computer software, computer equipment, furniture and
fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company's management offices and
its corporate headquarters.  Such capital expenditures were primarily funded
from working capital reserves and from net cash provided by operating
activities.

        Minority Interests as of December 31, 1996 decreased by $18.3 million
when compared to December 31, 1995.  The primary factors that impacted this
account during the year were distributions declared to Minority Interests,
which amounted to $20.5 million for the year, the allocation of its income
from operations in the amount of $14.3 million, the conversion of OP Units
into Common Shares and issuances of Common Shares during the year.


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

        Commencing in 1996, the Company implemented the new definition of FFO
adopted by the Board of Governors of NAREIT in March 1995.  The new definition
primarily eliminates the amortization of deferring financing costs and
depreciation of non-real estate assets as items added back to net income when
calculating FFO.

        The Company generally considers FFO to be one measure of the
performance of real estate companies including an equity REIT.  The resolution
adopted by the Board of Governors of NAREIT defines FFO as net income (loss)
(computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from debt
restructuring and sales of property, plus depreciation on real estate assets,
and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated
to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company believes that FFO is helpful to
investors as a measure of the performance of an equity REIT because, along
with cash flows from operating activities, financing activities and investing
activities, it provides investors an understanding of the ability of the
Company to incur and service debt and to make capital expenditures.  FFO in
and of itself does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered an alternative to
net income as an indication of the Company's performance or to net cash flows
from operating activities as determined by GAAP as a measure of liquidity and
is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.  The
Company's calculation of FFO represents net income available to Common Shares,
excluding gains on dispositions of properties, gains on early extinguishment
of debt, and write-off of unamortized costs on refinanced debt, plus
depreciation on real estate assets, income allocated to Minority Interests and
amortization of deferred financing costs related to the Predecessor Business.
The Company's calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for
calculating FFO utilized by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be
comparable to such other REITs.

        For the year ended December 31, 1997, FFO increased $110.5 million
representing a 69% increase when compared to the year ended December 31, 1996.
For the year ended December 31, 1996, FFO increased by $39.3 million
representing a 32.5% increase when compared to the year ended December 31,
1995.


 
                   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


        The following is a reconciliation of net income available to Common
Shares to FFO available to Common Shares and OP Units for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995:




 
                                   PART II

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        On March 7, 1996, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, as
amended, reporting the dismissal of Grant Thornton L.L.P. as its independent
public accountants that is incorporated herein by reference.


 
                                   PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 AND 13.

TRUSTEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT, EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION,
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIP AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

        The information required by Item 10, Item 11, Item 12 and Item 13 are
incorporated by reference to, and will be contained in, the Company's
definitive proxy statement, which the Company anticipates will be filed no
later than April 29, 1998, and thus these items have been omitted in
accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.


 
                                   PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        (a)
        (1 & 2) See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1
                of this Form 10-K.

        (3) Exhibits:

2.1++++   Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Equity Residential
          Properties Trust and Wellsford Residential Property Trust dated as
          of January 16, 1997

2.2#      Articles of  Merger by and between Equity Residential Properties
          Trust and Wellsford Residential Property Trust

2.3##     Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Equity Residential
          Properties Trust and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc. dated as of
          August 27, 1997

2.4###    Articles of  Merger by and between Equity Residential Properties
          Trust and Evans Withycombe Residential, Inc.

3.1+++    Second Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Equity
          Residential Properties Trust dated May 30, 1997

3.2+++    Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Equity Residential Properties
          Trust

4.1**     Indenture, dated as of May 16, 1994, by and among the Operating
          Partnership, as obligor, the Company, as guarantor and The First
          National Bank of Chicago, as trustee in connection with 8 1/2% senior
          notes due May 15, 1999

4.2**     Indenture, dated October 1, 1994, between the Operating Partnership,
          as obligor and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee in
          connection with up to $500 million of debt securities

10.1***   Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ERP
          Operating Limited Partnership

10.2*     Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential Properties
          Management Limited Partnership

10.3****  Agreement of Limited Partnership of Equity Residential Properties
          Management Limited Partnership II

10.4*     Noncompetition Agreement (Zell)

10.5*     Noncompetition Agreement (Crocker)

10.6*     Noncompetition Agreement (Spector)

10.7*     Form of Noncompetition Agreement (other officers)

10.8*     Services Agreement between Equity Residential Properties Trust and
          Equity Group Investments, Inc.

10.9*     Form of Property Management Agreement (REIT properties)

10.10**   Form of Property Management Agreement (Non-REIT properties)

10.11+    Amended and Restated Master Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of
          November 1, 1996 by and between Federal National Mortgage
          Association and EQR-Bond Partnership

10.12++   Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of
          September 9, 1997 among the Operating Partnership and Morgan
          Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as lead agent, Bank of America
          National Trust and Savings Association, as co-lead agent, The First
          National Bank of Chicago, as co-agent, U.S. Bank National
          Association f/k/a and d/b/a First Bank National Association, as
          co-agent and NationsBank of Texas, N.A., as co-agent


 
                                   PART IV

          and NationsBank of Texas, N.A., as co-agent

10.13#### Consulting Agreement dated August 27, 1997 between Equity
          Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership and Stephen O.
          Evans

10.14#### Employment Agreement dated August 27, 1997 between Equity
          Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership and Richard G.
          Berry

10.15     Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited 
          Partnership of Evans Withycombe Residential, L.P.

12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21        List of Subsidiaries of Equity Residential Properties Trust

23.1      Consent of Grant Thornton L.L.P.

23.2      Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

24.1      Power of Attorney for John W. Alexander dated March 2, 1998

24.2      Power of Attorney for James D. Harper, Jr. dated March 2, 1998

24.3      Power of Attorney for Errol R. Halperin dated March 2, 1998

24.4      Power of Attorney for B. Joseph White dated March 2, 1998

24.5      Power of Attorney for Barry S. Sternlicht dated March 4, 1998

24.6      Power of Attorney for Henry H. Goldberg dated March 2, 1998

24.7      Power of Attorney for Edward Lowenthal dated March 2, 1998

24.8      Power of Attorney for Jeffrey H. Lynford dated March 2, 1998

24.9      Power of Attorney for Stephen O. Evans dated March 2, 1998

- -----------------------
*       Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-11 Registration
        Statement, File No. 33-63158, and incorporated herein by reference.
**      Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form 10/A, dated
        December 12, 1994, File No. 0-24920, and incorporated herein by
        reference.
***     Included as an exhibit to the Operating Partnership's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended September 30, 1995, dated November 7, 1995, and
        incorporated herein by reference.
****    Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1994.
+       Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1996.
++      Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated September 10,
        1997, filed on September 10, 1997.
+++     Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated May 30, 1997,
        filed on June 5, 1997.
++++    Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated January 16,
        1997, filed on January 17, 1997.
#       Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on April 29,
        1997.
##      Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated August 27,
        1997, filed on August 29, 1997.
###     Included as Appendix B in the Company's Form S-4 filed on September
        18, 1997.
####    Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-4 filed on September
        18, 1997.
(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

A Report on Form 8-K dated October 9, 1997, reporting information for property
acquisitions.

A Report on Form 8-K/A dated October 9, 1997, reporting information for
property acquisitions.

(c)  Exhibits:
        See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules:

        See Index to Financial Statements attached hereto on page F-1 of this
        Form 10-K.


 
                                   PART IV

                                  SIGNATURES
                                  ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                        EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST


Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Douglas Crocker II
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Douglas Crocker II
                            President, Chief Executive Officer,
                              Trustee and *Attorney-in-Fact


Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ David J. Neithercut
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 David J. Neithercut
                             Executive Vice-President and
                               Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Michael J. McHugh
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Michael J. McHugh
                            Executive Vice-President, Chief Accounting
                             Officer, Treasurer and *Attorney-in-fact

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Samuel Zell
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Samuel Zell
                             Chairman of the Board of Trustees

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Gerald A. Spector
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Gerald A. Spector
                            Executive Vice-President, Chief
                             Operating Officer and Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Sheli Z. Rosenberg
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Sheli Z. Rosenberg
                                      Trustee


 
                                   PART IV

                             SIGNATURES-CONTINUED
                             --------------------

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ James D. Harper
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 James D. Harper
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Errol R. Halperin
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Errol R. Halperin
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Barry S. Sternlicht
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Barry S. Sternlicht
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ John W. Alexander
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 John W. Alexander
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ B. Joseph White
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 B. Joseph White
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Henry H. Goldberg
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Henry H. Goldberg
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Jeffrey H. Lynford
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Jeffrey H. Lynford
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13 1998     By:  /s/ Edward Lowenthal
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Edward Lowenthal
                                    Trustee

Date: March 13, 1998    By:  /s/ Stephen O. Evans
      --------------       -------------------------------------------
                                 Stephen O. Evans
                                    Trustee


 
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE


                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST


                                                                      PAGE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

     Report of Independent Auditors                                    F-2
     Report of Independent Accountants                                 F-3

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
             December 31, 1997 and 1996                            F-4 to F-5

     Consolidated Statements of Operations for
             the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995          F-6

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
             the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995      F-7 to F-8

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
             for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995      F-9

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                    F-10 to F-49

SCHEDULE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

     Report of Independent Accountants                                 S-1

     Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation       S-2 to S-12

                                      F-1

 
                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Trustees and Shareholders
Equity Residential Properties Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equity
Residential Properties Trust (the "Company") as of December 31, 1997 and 1996
and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
shareholders' equity and cash flows for the years then ended.  Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Equity Residential Properties Trust at December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then
ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in
our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.



                                              /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                  -----------------
                                                  ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 26, 1998
except for Note 24, as to which the date is
March  12, 1998

                                      F-2

 
                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Trustees
Equity Residential Properties Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, changes
in shareholders' equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1995
of Equity Residential Properties Trust. These financial statements are the
responsibility of management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows of Equity Residential Properties Trust for the year ended December 31,
1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.






                                                /s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP

                                                    GRANT THORNTON LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 14, 1996

                                      F-3

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR SHARE AMOUNTS)



                           See accompanying notes.

                                      F-4

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED)
               (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR SHARE AMOUNTS)



                           See accompanying notes.

                                      F-5

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
               (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)



                           See accompanying notes.

                                      F-6

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


                           See accompanying notes.

                                      F-7

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)



                           See accompanying notes.

                                      F-8

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


                           See accompanying notes.

                                      F-9

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.      ORGANIZATION AND FORMATION OF THE COMPANY

        Equity Residential Properties Trust, formed in March 1993, ("EQR"), is
a self-administered and self-managed equity real estate investment trust
("REIT").  As used herein, the term "Company" means EQR, and its subsidiaries,
as the survivor of the mergers between EQR and each of Wellsford Residential
Property Trust ("Wellsford") (the "Wellsford Merger") and Evans Withycombe
Residential, Inc. ("EWR") (the "EWR Merger").  The Company has elected to be
taxed as a REIT under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code 1986, as
amended (the "Code"). As a result, the Company generally will not be subject
to Federal income tax to the extent it distributes 95% of its taxable income
to its shareholders. REITs are subject to a number of organizational and
operational requirements.  If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any
year, its taxable income may be subject to income tax at regular corporate
rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax). Even if the Company
qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain state
and local taxes on its income and excise taxes on its undistributed income.

        EQR is the successor to the multifamily property business of Equity
Properties Management Corp. ("EPMC"), an entity controlled by Mr. Samuel Zell,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Company, and a series of other
entities which owned 69 of the multifamily properties contributed to the
Company at the time of the Company's initial public offering (the "Initial
Properties").  Forty- six of the Initial Properties (the "Zell Properties")
were contributed or sold by entities substantially controlled by Mr. Zell and
primarily owned by Mr. Zell and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Robert Lurie, a
deceased partner of Mr. Zell.  The remaining 23 of the Initial Properties (the
"Starwood Properties") were acquired from entities controlled by Starwood
Capital Partners, L.P. ("Starwood") and its affiliates ("Starwood Original
Owners").  Prior to the completion of the Company's initial public offering
(the "EQR IPO") of 13,225,000 common shares of beneficial interest, $.01 par
value per share ("Common Shares"), EPMC provided multifamily residential
management services (the "Management Business") to the Zell Properties.

        The Company is engaged in the acquisition, disposition, ownership,
management and operation of multifamily properties.  As of December 31, 1997,
the Company controlled a portfolio of 463 multifamily properties (individually
a "Property" and collectively the "Properties") containing 135,200 apartment
units.  The Company's interest in six of these Properties at the time of
acquisition thereof consisted solely of ownership of debt collateralized by
such Properties.  The Company also has an investment in partnership interests
and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 properties and mortgage loans
collateralized by five properties (collectively, the "Additional Properties").
The Properties and Additional Properties are located throughout the United
States in the following 35 states:  Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington
and Wisconsin.

                                      F-10

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        In exchange for contributing 33 of the Zell Properties and the
Management Business and the Starwood Properties, the 33 existing entities (the
"Zell Original Owners"), and entities controlled by Starwood and EPMC received
a total of 8,433,238 partnership interests ("OP Units") (including an
additional 93,639 OP Units issued in August 1994 and 1,835 OP Units issued in
September 1995) in ERP Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating
Partnership").  The OP Units are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into
Common Shares.  The other 13 Zell Properties were acquired from 13 existing
partnerships (the "Zell Sellers") for $43.5 million in cash.  The Management
Business, the Zell Original Owners and the Zell Sellers are collectively the
"EQR's Predecessor Business".

        The Company has formed a series of partnerships (the "Financing
Partnerships") which beneficially own certain Properties encumbered by
mortgage indebtedness.  The Operating Partnership owns a 1% limited partner
interest and a 98% general partner interest in each Financing Partnership. The
remaining 1% general partner interest in each Financing Partnership is owned
by various qualified REIT subsidiaries wholly owned by the Company (each a
"QRS Corporation"). Rental income from the Properties that are beneficially
owned by a Financing Partnership is used first to service the applicable
mortgage debt and pay other operating expenses and any excess is then
distributed 1% to the applicable QRS Corporation, as the general partner of
such Financing Partnership, and 99% to the Operating Partnership, as the sole
1% limited partner and as the 98% general partner.  The Company has also
formed a series of limited liability companies (the "LLCs") which own certain
Properties and one such LLC which has an investment in partnership interests
and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 of the Additional Properties.
The Operating Partnership is a 99% managing member of each LLC and a QRS
Corporation is a 1% member of each LLC. In addition, the Company also owns a
1% general partner interest and a 81.1% limited partner interest in Evans
Withycombe Residential, L. P. (the "EWR Operating Partnership") and the
Operating Partnership owns a 16.1% limited partner interest and a 1% managing
general partner interest in the EWR Operating Partnership.

        As of December 31, 1997, 451 Properties were managed by either Equity
Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership, the successor to the
Management Business contributed by EPMC contemporaneously with the EQR IPO or
Equity Residential Properties Management Limited Partnership II (collectively,
the "Management Partnerships").  The Management Partnerships collect a
property management fee consistent with a reasonable arms- length charge for
the performance of such services.  The sole general partner of the Management
Partnerships with a 1% interest is the Operating Partnership.  The sole
limited partners of the Management Partnerships are Equity Residential
Properties Management Corp. ("Management Corp.") and Equity Residential
Properties Management Corp. II ("Management Corp. II"), respectively, and each
has a 99% interest in the respective partnership.

2.      BASIS OF PRESENTATION

        The Wellsford Merger and the EWR Merger (collectively, the "Mergers")
were treated as purchases in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 16.  The fair value of the

                                      F-11

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

consideration given by the Company in the Mergers was used as the valuation
basis for each of the combinations.  The assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed of Wellsford were recorded at their relative fair values as of May 30,
1997 (the "Wellsford Closing Date").  The assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed of EWR were recorded at their relative fair values as of December 23,
1997 (the "EWR Closing Date").  The accompanying consolidated statements of
operations and cash flows include the results of both Wellsford and EWR from
their respective closing dates. 

        Due to the Company's ability as general partner to control either
through ownership or by contract the Operating Partnership, the Management
Partnerships, the Financing Partnerships, the LLCs and the EWR Operating
Partnership, each such entity has been consolidated with the Company for
financial reporting purposes. In regard to Management Corp., Management Corp. II
and Evans Withycombe Management, Inc., the Company does not have legal control;
however, these entities are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, the
effects of which are immaterial. Certain reclassifications have been made to the
prior year's financial statements in order to conform to the current year
presentation.

3.      BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

        In connection with the Wellsford Merger each outstanding common share
of beneficial interest of Wellsford was converted into .625 of a Common Share
of the Company.  In addition, Wellsford's Series A Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest were redesignated as the Company's
3,999,800 Series E Cumulative Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series E Preferred Shares") and
Wellsford's Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest were redesignated as the Company's 2,300,000 9.65% Series F
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (the "Series F Preferred Shares").

        On the Wellsford Closing Date, 72 Properties containing 19,004 units
and other related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of
approximately $1 billion.  The purchase price consisted of 10.8 million Common
Shares issued by the Company with a market value of $443.7 million, the
liquidation value of $157.5 million for the Series E Preferred Shares and the
Series F Preferred Shares, the assumption of mortgage indebtedness and
unsecured notes in the amount of $345 million, the assumption of other
liabilities of approximately $33.5 million and other merger related costs of
approximately $23.4 million.

        On the EWR Closing Date, 53 Properties containing 15,331 units and
three Properties under construction or expansion expected to contain 953 units
and other related assets were acquired for a total purchase price of
approximately $1.2 billion.  In connection with the EWR Merger, as of the EWR
Closing Date, each outstanding common share of beneficial interest of EWR was
converted into .50 of a Common Share of the Company. The purchase price
consisted of 10.3 million Common Shares issued by the Company with a total
market value of approximately $501.6 million, the assumption of EWR's minority
interest with a market value of approximately $107.3 million, the assumption
of mortgage indebtedness and unsecured notes in the amount of $498 million,
the assumption of other liabilities of approximately $28.2 million and other
EWR Merger related costs

                                      F-12

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

of approximately $16.7 million.

4. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND MINORITY INTERESTS

        On September 11, 1995, the Company filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Form S-3 Registration Statement to register
up to $500 million of its non-voting preferred shares of beneficial interest,
$0.01 par value per share ("Preferred Shares"), Common Shares and depositary
shares, pursuant to a shelf offering (the "Second Shelf Registration").

        In January 1996, the Company completed an offering of 1,725,000
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.375 per share
(the "January 1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of
approximately $50.7 million in connection therewith.

        Also in January 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 1,676,423 Common Shares which may be sold
by the holders thereof or by holders of OP Units upon the issuance of Common
Shares in exchange for such OP Units.

        In February 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000
registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $29.50 per share
(the "February 1996 Common Share Offering") and received net proceeds of
approximately $67.8 million in connection therewith.

        On May 21, 1996, the Company completed an offering of 2,300,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $30.50
per share.  On May 28, 1996, the Company completed the sale of 73,287 publicly
registered Common Shares to employees of the Company and to employees of
Equity Group Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries ("EGI") and
certain of their respective affiliates and consultants at a net price equal to
$30.50 per share.  On May 30, 1996, the Company completed an offering of
1,264,400 publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of
$30.75 per share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $111.3
million in connection with the sale of the 3,637,687 Common Shares mentioned
above (collectively, the "May 1996 Common Share Offerings").

        On June 26, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 608,665 Common Shares which may be issued
by the Company to holders of 608,665 OP Units.  The SEC declared this
Registration effective on September 6, 1996.

        On September 18, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the
"1996 Equity Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this Registration
effective on September 23, 1996.

        In September 1996, the Company completed the sale of 2,272,728
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a net price of $33 per
share. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $75 million in
connection with this offering (the "September 1996 Common Share Offering").

                                      F-13

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        On September 27, 1996, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 1,182,835 Common Shares which may be issued
by the Company to holders of 1,182,835 OP Units.  The SEC declared this
Registration effective on October 3, 1996.

        In December 1996, the Company completed offerings of 4,440,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$41.25 per share (the "December 1996 Common Share Offerings").  The Company
received net proceeds of approximately $177.4 million in connection therewith.

        In March 1997, the Company completed three separate public offerings
relating to an aggregate of 1,921,000 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at a price of $46 per share (the "March 1997 Common
Share Offerings").   The Company received net proceeds of approximately $88.3
million therefrom.

        On May 14, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $500 million of equity securities (the
"June 1997 Equity Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration
statement effective on June 5, 1997.

        In June 1997, the Company completed five separate public offerings
comprising an aggregate of 8,992,023 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were sold to the public at prices ranging from $44.06 to $45.88 per share (the
"June 1997 Common Share Offerings").  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $398.9 million therefrom.

        On July 28, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $750 million of equity securities (the
"August 1997 Equity Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this registration
statement effective on August 4, 1997.

        In September 1997, the Company completed the sale of 498,000 publicly
registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of $51.125
per share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $24.2 million
in connection with this offering (the "September 1997 Common Share Offering").

        In October 1997, in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of
Properties, the Company issued 3,315,500 publicly registered Common Shares,
which were issued at a price of $45.25 per share with a value of approximately
$150 million (the "October 1997 Common Share Offering").

        On December 11, 1997, in connection with the acquisition of one
Property, the Company issued 736,296 publicly registered Common Shares, which
were issued at a price of $48.85 per share with a value of approximately $36
million. On December 23, 1997, the Company completed an offering of 467,722
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold to the public at a price of
$51.3125 per share and received net proceeds of approximately $22.8 million in
connection therewith. The sale of the 1,204,018 Common Shares mentioned above
is collectively, the "December 1997 Common Share Offerings".

        The following table presents the changes in the Company's issued and
outstanding 

                                      F-14

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

Common Shares for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
(excluding OP Units of 9,592,590, 7,858,228 and 8,208,882 outstanding at
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively):



                                      F-15

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        The declaration of trust of the Company provides that the Company may
issue up to 100,000,000 Preferred Shares with specific rights, preferences and
other attributes as the Board of Trustees may determine, which may include
preferences, powers and rights that are senior to the rights of holders of the
Company's Common Shares.  Under certain circumstances, the issuance of
Preferred Shares may require shareholder approval pursuant to the rules and
the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange.

        In June 1995, the Company sold 6,120,000 of its 9 3/8% Series A
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value
per share (liquidation preference $25 per share) (the "Series A Preferred
Shares"), pursuant to a $250 million shelf registration (the "Preferred Shelf
Registration"), at $25 per share.  The Company raised gross proceeds of $153
million from this offering (the "Series A Preferred Share Offering").  The net
proceeds of approximately $148.2 million from the Series A Preferred Share
Offering were contributed by the Company to the Operating Partnership in
exchange for 6,120,000 of the Operating Partnership's 9 3/8% Series A
cumulative redeemable preference units.  The Series A Preferred Shares are
cumulative from the date of original issue and are payable quarterly on or
about the fifteenth day of January, April, July and October of each year, at
the annual rate of 9 3/8% of the liquidation preference of $25 per share.  The
Series A Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to June 1, 2000.  On or
after June 1, 2000, the Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at the
option of the Company in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per
share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

        In November 1995, the Company sold 5,000,000 depositary shares (the
"Series B Depositary Shares") pursuant to the Preferred Shelf Registration and
the Second Shelf Registration. Each Series B Depositary Share represents a
1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series B
Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference of each of the Series B
Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series B Depositary Share).
The Company raised gross proceeds of $125 million from this offering (the
"Series B Preferred Share Offering").  The net proceeds of approximately $121
million from the Series B Preferred Share Offering were contributed by the
Company to the Operating Partnership in exchange for 500,000 of the Operating
Partnership's 9 1/8% Series B cumulative redeemable preference units.  The
Series B Preferred Shares are cumulative from the date of original issue and
are payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of January, April, July
and October of each year, commencing on January 15, 1996, at the annual rate
of 91/8% of the liquidation preference of $25 per Depositary Share.  The
Series B Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to October 15, 2005.  On
and after October 15, 2005, the Series B Preferred Shares may be redeemed for
cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price
of $250 per share (equivalent to $25 per Series B Depositary Share), plus
accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

        In September 1996 the Company sold 4,600,000 depositary shares (the
"Series C Depositary Shares") pursuant to the Second Shelf Registration.  Each
Series C Depositary Share

                                      F-16

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a 9 1/8% Series C Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share
(the "Series C Preferred Shares").  The liquidation preference of each of the
Series C Preferred Shares is $250.00 (equivalent to $25 per Series C
Depositary Share). The Company raised gross proceeds of $115 million from this
offering (the "Series C Preferred Share Offering").  The Company contributed
the net proceeds of approximately $111.4 million from the Series C Preferred
Share Offering to the Operating Partnership in exchange for 460,000 of the
Operating Partnership's 9 1/8% Series C cumulative redeemable preference
units.  The Series C Preferred Shares are cumulative from the date of original
issue and are payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of January,
April, July and October of each year, commencing on October 15, 1996, at the
annual rate of 9 1/8% of the liquidation preference of $25 per Series C
Depositary Share.  The Series C Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
September 9, 2006.  On and after September 9, 2006, the Series C Preferred
Shares may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price of $250 per share (equivalent to $25 per Series C
Depositary Share), plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

        In May 1997, the Company sold 7,000,000 depositary shares (the "Series
D Depositary Shares") pursuant to the June 1997 Equity Shelf Registration.
Each Series D Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional interest in a
8.60% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share of Beneficial Interest,
$0.01 par value per share  (the "Series D Preferred Shares").  The liquidation
preference of each of the Series D Preferred shares is $250.00 (equivalent to
$25 per Series D Depositary Share).  The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $169.5 million from this offering (the "Series D Preferred Share
Offering").  The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $169.5
million from the Series D Preferred Share Offering to the Operating
Partnership in exchange for 700,000 of the Operating Partnership's 8.60%
Series D cumulative redeemable preference units.

        The Series E Preferred Shares are cumulative from the date of original
issue and are payable quarterly on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in
an amount equal to $1.75 per share per annum.  Each Series E Preferred Share
is convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time into Common
Shares at a conversion price of $44.93 per Common Share (equivalent to a
conversion rate of approximately .5564 Common Share for each Series E
Preferred Share).  The Series E Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to
November 1, 1998.  On and after November 1, 1998, the Series E Preferred
Shares may be redeemed at the option of the Company, in whole or in part,
initially at $25.875 per share and thereafter at prices declining to $25.00
per share on and after November 1, 2003, plus accrued and unpaid
distributions, if any, thereon.  In October 1997, 1,300 of the Series E
Preferred Shares were converted into 723 Common Shares of the Company.

        The Series F Preferred Shares are cumulative from the date of
original issue and are payable quarterly on or about the fifteenth day of
January, April, July and October of each year at the rate of 9.65% of the
liquidation preference of $25 per share. The Series F Preferred Shares are not
redeemable prior to August 24, 2000.  On or after August 24, 2000, the Series
F Preferred Shares may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in
whole or in part, at a redemption price

                                      F-17

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid distributions, if any, thereon.

        In September 1997, the Company sold 11,000,000 depositary shares (the
"Series G Depositary Shares") pursuant to the August 1997 Equity Shelf
Registration.  Each Series G Depositary Share represents a 1/10 fractional
interest in a 7 1/4% Series G Convertible Cumulative Preferred Share of
Beneficial Interest, $0.01 par value per share (the "Series G Preferred
Shares"). Series G Depositary Shares representing Series G Preferred Shares
are convertible at the option of the holder thereof at any time into Common
Shares at a conversion price of $58.58 per Common Share (equivalent to a
conversion rate of approximately .4268 Common Shares for each Series G
Depositary Share).  The liquidation preference of each of the Series G
Preferred Shares is $250.00 per share (equivalent to $25 per Series G
Depositary Share).  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $264
million from this offering (the "Series G Preferred Share Offering").  In
addition, in October 1997, the Company sold 1,650,000 additional Series G
Depositary Shares pursuant to an over-allotment option granted to the
underwriters and received net proceeds of approximately $39.6 million
therefrom.  The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $303.6
million from the Series G Preferred Share Offering to the Operating
Partnership in exchange for 1,265,000 of the Operating Partnership's 7 1/4%
Series G convertible cumulative preference units.

        Net proceeds from the Company's Common Share offerings are contributed
by the Company to the Operating Partnership in return for an increased
ownership percentage and are treated as capital transactions in the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements.  As a result, the net offering proceeds are
allocated between shareholders' equity and the equity position of the limited
partners of the Operating Partnership (collectively, the "Minority Interests")
(to the extent represented by OP Units), to account for the change in their
respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating
Partnership.

        Assuming conversion of all OP Units, total Common Shares outstanding
at December 31, 1997 would have been 98,677,855.  As of December 31, 1997, the
Minority Interests held 9,592,590 OP Units, which represented a 9.72% interest
in the Operating Partnership.

        The Company paid a $0.625, $0.625, $0.625 and $0.67 per Common Share
distribution on April 11, July 11, October 10 and December 30, 1997,
respectively, for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31, 1997, to Common Share holders of record on March 28, June 27,
September 26 and December 15, 1997, respectively.

                                      F-18

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        The following table summarizes the distributions paid to Preferred
Share and Depositary Share holders related to the year ended December 31,
1997:



(A) Partial distribution of $0.3344 covers the period May 21 through July 15,
    1997.
(B) Partial distribution of $0.1108 covers the period September 24 through
    October 15, 1997.

5.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    (a)  Real estate assets and depreciation

        Real Estate is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation less an
adjustment, if any, for impairment.  Real estate intended to be held and
operated by the Company over their remaining useful life are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the particular real estate may not be recoverable.  If
these events or changes in circumstances are present, the Company estimates
the sum of the expected future cash flows

                                      F-19

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

(undiscounted) to result from the operations and eventual disposition of the
particular real estate, and if less than the carrying amount of the real
estate, the Company will recognize an impairment loss.  Upon recognition of
any impairment loss the Company measures that loss based on the amount by
which the carrying amount of the real estate exceeds the estimated fair value
of the real estate.

        For rental properties to be disposed of, an impairment loss is
recognized when the fair value of the real estate, less the estimated cost to
sell, is less than the carrying amount of the real estate measured at the time
the Company has a commitment to sell the property and/or is actively marketing
the property for sale.  Real estate to be disposed of is reported at the lower
of its carrying amount or its estimated fair value, less its cost to sell.
Depreciation is not recorded during the period in which assets are held for
disposal.

        Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the assets.  The Company uses a 30-year estimated life for
buildings, a 10-year estimated life for land improvements and up to a
seven-year estimated life for furniture, fixtures and equipment. Expenditures
for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred
and significant renovations and improvements that improve and/or extend the
useful life of the asset are capitalized over their estimated useful life.
Initial direct leasing costs are expensed as incurred and such expense
approximates the deferral and amortization of initial direct leasing costs
over the lease terms.  Property sales or dispositions are recorded when title
transfers and sufficient consideration has been received by the Company.  Upon
disposition, the related costs and accumulated deprecation are removed from
the respective accounts.  Any gain or loss on sale or disposition is
recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

        The Company classifies developments and lease-up properties as
construction-in-progress until construction on the apartment community has
been completed and the apartment community has reached stabilized occupancy.
The Company generally considers a property stabilized when it first reaches
93% physical occupancy.  The Company also classifies land relating to
construction- in-progress as land on its balance sheet.  Land associated with
construction-in-progress was $8.3 million as of December 31, 1997.

    (b)  Cash and Cash Equivalents

        The Company considers all demand deposits, money market accounts and
investments in certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements purchased
with a maturity of three months or less, at the date of purchase, to be cash
equivalents.  The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at financial
institutions.  The combined account balances at each institution periodically
exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance
coverage, and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to
amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage.  The Company believes
that the risk is not significant, as the Company does not anticipate their
non-performance.

                                      F-20

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

    (c)  Deferred Financing Costs

        Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain the
Company's lines of credit, long-term financing and costs for certain interest
rate protection agreements.  These costs are amortized over the terms of the
related debt.  Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is
retired before the maturity date.  As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the
accumulated amortization of such deferred financing costs was $4.2 million and
$3.8 million, respectively.

   (d)   Interest Rate Protection Agreements

        The Company from time to time enters into interest rate protection
agreements to effectively convert floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, as
well as to hedge anticipated financing transactions. Net amounts paid or
received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to interest
expense when such amounts are incurred or earned. Settlement amounts paid or
received in connection with terminated interest rate protection agreements are
deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the related financing
transaction on the straight-line method.  The Company believes it has limited
exposure to the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each
protection agreement since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial
institution, and the Company does not anticipate their non-performance.

    (e)  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

        The fair values of the Company's financial instruments, including cash
and cash equivalents, and mortgage notes payable, other notes payable, lines
of credit and other financial instruments, approximate their carrying or
contract values.  With respect to the Company's investment in mortgage notes,
the fair value as of December 31, 1997 was estimated to be approximately
$184.8 million compared to the Company's carrying value of $176.1 million. The
estimated fair value of the Company's investment in mortgage notes represents
the estimated net present value based on the expected future property level
cash flows and an estimated current market discount rate.

    (f)  Revenue Recognition

        Rental income attributable to leases is recorded when due from tenants
and is recognized monthly as it is earned, which is not materially different
than on a straight-line basis.  Interest income is recorded on an accrual
basis.

    (g)  Lease Agreements

        A substantial portion of the leases entered into between the tenant
and a multifamily property for the rental of an apartment unit is
month-to-month or year-to-year, renewable upon consent of both parties.

                                      F-21

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

    (h)  Income Taxes

        Due to the structure of the Company as a REIT and the nature of the
operations of the Properties and Management Business, the results of
operations contain no provision for Federal income taxes.  However, the
Company is subject to certain state and local income, excise or franchise
taxes.  The Company paid no Federal income taxes during the year ended
December 31, 1997.  The aggregate cost of land and depreciable property for
Federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 1997 was approximately $6.2
billion.

    (i)  Income per Common Share

        In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
128, Earnings per Share ("Statement 128").  Statement 128 replaced the
calculation of primary and fully diluted earnings per share with basic and
diluted earnings per share.  Unlike primary earnings per share, basic earnings
per share excludes any dilutive effects of options, warrants and convertible
securities.  Diluted earnings per share is very similar to the previously
reported fully diluted earnings per share.  All net income per weighted
average Common Share and net income per weighted average Common Share -
assuming dilution amounts for all periods have been presented, and where
appropriate, restated to conform to the Statement 128 requirements.  The
conversion of an OP Unit to a Common Share will have no effect on income per
Common Share, either on a basic or diluted basis, since the allocation of
earnings to an OP Unit is equivalent to a Common Share. The effect of a
conversion of an OP Unit to a Common Share has been excluded from the basic
earnings per share calculation due to certain restrictions.

    (j)  Minority Interests

        Net income is allocated to the Minority Interests based on their
respective ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership.  Ownership
percentage is represented by dividing the number of OP Units held by the
Minority Interests by the total  OP Units held by Minority Interests and the
Company.  Issuance of additional Common Shares or OP Units changes the
ownership interests of both the Minority Interests and the Company.  Such
transactions and the proceeds therefrom are treated as capital transactions
and result in an allocation between shareholders' equity and Minority
Interests to account for the change in the respective percentage ownership of
the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.

    (k)  Use of Estimates

        In preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles, management makes estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from these estimates.

                                      F-22

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

6.  REAL ESTATE

        The following summarizes the carrying amounts for the real estate as
of December 31, 1997 and 1996:



        In addition to the Mergers, during the year ended December 31, 1997,
the Company acquired the 124 Properties listed below.  Each Property was
purchased from an unaffiliated third party, except for 12 of the Properties,
which were purchased from affiliates of the Company, Zell/Merrill Lynch Real
Estate Opportunity Partners Limited Partnership ("Zell/Merrill I") and
subsidiaries of Zell/Merrill Lynch Real Estate Opportunity Partners Limited
Partnership II ("Zell/Merrill II").  The total purchase price for the
Properties acquired from Zell/Merrill I and Zell/Merrill II was approximately
$162.2 million.  In connection with certain of the acquisitions listed below,
the Company assumed mortgage indebtedness of approximately $597.2 million and
issued OP Units and Common Shares having a value of approximately $191.3
million.  The cash portion of these transactions was funded primarily from
proceeds raised from the March 1997 Common Share Offerings, the Series D
Preferred Share Offering, the June 1997 Common Share Offerings, the September
1997 Common Share Offering, the Series G Preferred Share Offering, the October
Common Share Offering, and the December Common Share Offerings as well as from
proceeds raised from the issuances of debt securities as discussed in Note 13.

                                      F-23

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)


                                      F-24

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)


                                      F-25

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)


                                      F-26

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

7.  INVESTMENT IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS - DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES

        In December 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement
with a multifamily residential real estate developer whereby the Company will
make investments in a limited partnership to fund a portion of the total
project development cost of new multifamily developments in certain of the
Company's target markets (the "Joint Venture Agreement").  As of December 31,
1997, the Company has funded approximately $6.9 million in connection with
this agreement.  The amounts invested are included in other assets on the
balance sheet.

8.  REAL ESTATE DISPOSITIONS

        During 1997, the Company disposed of the properties listed below.
Each property was sold to an unaffiliated third party.



        The Company recognized a total gain of approximately $13.8 million on
the disposition of these seven Properties, the portion of one Property and the
vacant land parcel.

        During the year ended December 31, 1995, the Company recorded a $1
million loss, which represented the estimated impairment in connection with
the potential sale of University Park, located in Toledo, Ohio.  This Property
had a net carrying amount as of December 31, 1995 of approximately $1.1
million after the impairment loss.  The impairment loss on real estate to be
disposed of is included in gain on disposition of properties on the statement
of operations for the year ended December 31, 1995.


9.  CALCULATION OF NET INCOME PER WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARE

        The following tables sets forth the computation of net income per
weighted average Common Share outstanding and net income per weighted average
Common Share outstanding - assuming dilution.

                                      F-27

 


                                      F-28

 




For additional disclosures regarding the employee share options, see Note 18.

Convertible Preferred Shares that could be converted into 2,763,898 shares of
common shares were outstanding at December 31, 1997 but were not included in
the computation of diluted earnings per share because it would be
anti-dilutive.

                                      F-29

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

10.  INVESTMENT IN MORTGAGE NOTES, NET

        In 1995, the Company made an $89 million investment in partnership
interests and subordinated mortgages collateralized by 21 of the Additional
Properties.  These 21 Additional Properties consist of 3,896 units, located in
California, Colorado, New Mexico and Oklahoma. This included an $87.1 million
investment in second and third mortgages (net of an original discount of
approximately $12.7 million to their face value), $1.6 million represents a
one time payment for an interest rate protection agreement and $0.3 million
represents an investment for primarily a 49.5% limited partnership interest in
the title-holding entities.  As the Company does not control the general
partners of the title-holding entities and substantially all of the Company's
investment is in second and third mortgages (which are subordinate to first
mortgages owned by third party unaffiliated entities), the $87.1 million
investment is accounted for as an investment in mortgage notes.  The $1.6
million payment made for the interest rate protection agreement is included in
deferred financing costs and is being amortized over the term of the related
debt.  The investment in limited partnership interests is accounted for under
the equity method and is included in other assets on the balance sheet.

        As of December 31, 1997 the second mortgage notes had a combined
principal balance of approximately $25.5 million, accrue interest at a rate of
9.45% per annum, receive principal amortization from excess cash flow and have
a stated maturity date of December 31, 2019.  The third mortgage notes had a
combined principal balance of approximately $71.1 million, accrue interest at
a rate of 6.15% per annum, plus up to an additional 3% per annum to the extent
of available cash flow.  Contingent interest on the third mortgage notes is
recognized to the extent it is determined to be received.  The third mortgage
notes have a stated maturity of December 31, 2024. Receipt of principal and
interest on the second and third mortgage notes is subordinated to the receipt
of all interest on the first mortgage notes.  With respect to the discount on
these notes, the unamortized balance at December 31, 1997 was $9 million.
During 1997 and 1996, the Company amortized $3.1 million and $0.6 million,
respectively, which is included in interest income- investment in mortgage
notes in the consolidated statement of operations.  This discount is being
amortized utilizing the effective yield method.

        On April 28, 1997, the Company made an $88 million investment in six
mortgage loans collateralized by five multifamily properties.  These five
multifamily properties are included in the Additional Properties.  As of
December 31, 1997, these six mortgage loans had a combined principal balance
of approximately $88 million and accrue interest at a rate of 8.25%.  These
six mortgage loans are scheduled to mature on  January 1, 2006.

11.  MORTGAGE NOTES PAYABLE

        As of December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $1.6 billion encumbering 152 of the Properties.
The carrying value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of
$145.1 million) was approximately $2.6 billion.  The mortgage notes payables
are generally due in monthly installments of interest only.  In connection

                                      F-30

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

with the Properties acquired during the year ended December 31, 1997,
including the effects of the Mergers, the Company assumed the outstanding
mortgage balances on 90 Properties in the aggregate amount of $931 million,
which includes a premium of approximately $3.9 million recorded in connection
with the EWR Merger.

        Concurrent with the refinancing of certain tax-exempt bonds and as a
requirement of the credit provider of the bonds, the Financing Partnership,
which owns certain of the Properties, entered into interest rate protection
agreements, which were assigned to the credit provider as additional security.
The Financing Partnership pays interest based on a fixed interest rate and the
counterparty of the agreement pays interest to the Company at a floating rate
that is calculated based on the Public Securities Association Index for
municipal bonds ("PSA Municipal Index"). As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the
aggregate notional amounts of these agreements were approximately $174.3
million and $166.8 million, respectively. The fixed interest rates for these
agreements were 4.81%, 4.528% and 4.90%.  The termination dates are October 1,
2003, January 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004.  The Company simultaneously entered
into substantially identical reverse interest rate protection agreements.
Under these agreements the Company pays interest monthly at a floating rate
based on the PSA Municipal Index and the counterparty pays interest to the
Company based on a fixed interest rate.  As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the
aggregate notional amount of these agreements was approximately $174.3 million
and $166.8 million, respectively. The fixed interest rates received by the
Company in exchange for paying interest based on the PSA Municipal Index for
these agreements were 4.74%, 4.458% and 4.83%.  The termination dates are
October 1, 2003, January 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004. Collectively, these
agreements effectively cost the Company 0.07% per annum on the current
outstanding aggregate notional amount.  The Company believes that it has
limited exposure to the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of the
agreements since each counterparty is a major U.S. financial institution, and
the Company does not anticipate their non-performance. Furthermore, any
non-performance by the counterparty is offset by non-performance by the
Company.

        The Company also has an interest rate cap agreement for a notional
amount of $228,000,000, for which it will receive payments if the PSA index
exceeds 5.75%, that terminates on December 1, 1999.  Any payments by the
counterparty under this agreement have been collaterally assigned to the
provider of certain sureties related to the tax exempt bonds secured by
certain of it's Properties.  The Company has no payment obligations to the
counterparty with respect to this agreement.

        As of December 31, 1997, scheduled maturities for the Company's
outstanding mortgage indebtedness are at various dates through October 1,
2030.  During the year ended December 31, 1997, effective interest cost on
these mortgage notes was 7.5%.  During the year ended December 31, 1997, the
Company repaid the outstanding mortgage balances on 29 Properties in the
aggregate amount of $113.4 million. Subsequent to December 31, 1997, the
Company repaid the outstanding mortgage balance on one Property in the amount
of approximately $18.2 million.   In February 1996, the Company entered into
an interest rate protection agreement, which hedged the interest rate risk of
$50 million of mortgage loans, scheduled to mature in September 1997 by
locking the

                                      F-31

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

five year Treasury Rate, commencing October 1, 1997 through October 1, 2002.
This agreement was cancelled in July 1997, at no cost to the Company, in
conjunction with the Company entering into another interest rate protection
agreement to effectively fix the cost of the Company's unsecured notes issued
in November 1997.

        As of December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $755.4 million encumbering 88 of the Properties.
The carrying value of such Properties (net of accumulated depreciation of
$141.2 million) was approximately $1.1 billion.  The mortgage notes payables
are generally due in monthly installments of interest only.  In connection
with the Properties acquired during the year ended December 31, 1996, the
Company assumed the outstanding mortgage balances on 14 Properties in the
aggregate amount of $142.2 million.  In addition, during 1996, in two separate
transactions, certain indebtedness evidenced by tax-exempt bonds encumbering
certain Properties was refinanced resulting in an increase in mortgage
indebtedness affecting these Properties of approximately $112 million.  In
connection with one of these transactions, the Company also recorded an
extraordinary loss in the amount of approximately $3.5 million, which
represented the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs from the
early retirement of debt.

        During the year ended December 31, 1996, the effective interest cost
on these mortgage notes was 7.87%.  During the year ended December 31, 1996,
the Company repaid the outstanding mortgage balances on eight Properties in
the aggregate amount of $57 million.

        During 1996 the Company terminated two interest rate protection
agreements that were initially entered into in connection with two mortgage
loans with notional amounts totaling $64.2 million. These two agreements
effectively converted these two mortgage loans to fixed rate instruments based
on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").  Upon the termination of these
agreements the Company received settlement payments of approximately $230,000.

        Aggregate payments of principal on mortgage notes payable for each of
the next five years and thereafter are as follows:



                                      F-32

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

12.  LINES OF CREDIT

        On November 15, 1996, the Company completed an agreement with Morgan
Guaranty Trust Company of  New York and Bank of America Illinois to provide
the Operating Partnership a $250 million unsecured line of credit.  In
September 1997, this agreement was amended to increase the potential
borrowings to $500 million.  This line of credit matures in November 1999 and
borrowings generally will bear interest at a per annum rate of one, two, three
or six month LIBOR, plus a certain rate dependent upon the Company's credit
rating, which rate is currently 0.45%, and is subject to an annual facility
fee of $750,000.  As of December 31, 1997, $235 million were outstanding on
this line of credit, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of  6.46%.

                                      F-33

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

13.  NOTES

        On May 16, 1994, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of
unsecured senior notes (the "1999 Notes") in a private placement (the "Debt
Offering") to qualified institutional buyers. The 1999 Notes were issued at a
discount, which is being amortized over the life of the 1999 Notes on a
straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1997 the unamortized discount balance
was approximately $0.2 million.  The 1999 Notes are due May 15, 1999 and bear
interest at a rate of 8.5%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on May 15
and November 15.  In February 1996 the Company entered into an interest rate
protection agreement that hedged the interest rate risk of the 1999 Notes by
locking the effective four-year Treasury Rate, commencing May 15, 1999. There
was no current cost to the Company for entering into this agreement.

        In December 1994, the Operating Partnership registered $500 million in
debt securities pursuant to a debt shelf registration statement (the "Debt
Shelf Registration") of which $100 million of unsecured floating rate notes
(the "Floating Rate Notes") were issued by the Operating Partnership on
December 22, 1994 (the "Public Debt Offering").  The Floating Rate Notes were
repaid at maturity on December 22, 1997.

        In April 1995, the Operating Partnership issued $125 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2002 Notes") in connection with the Debt
Shelf Registration in a public debt offering (the "Second Public Debt
Offering").  The 2002 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being
amortized over the life of the 2002 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of
December 31, 1997 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.6
million.  The 2002 Notes are due on April 15, 2002 and bear interest at 7.95%,
which is payable semiannually on each October 15 and April 15.  The Operating
Partnership received net proceeds of $123.1 million in connection with the
Second Public Debt Offering.  Prior to the issuance of the 2002 Notes, the
Operating Partnership entered into an interest rate protection agreement to
effectively fix the interest rate cost of such issuance. The Operating
Partnership made a one-time settlement payment of this protection transaction,
which was approximately $0.8 million and is being amortized over the term of
the 2002 Notes on a  straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1997 the
unamortized balance of this cost was approximately $0.5 million.

        In August 1996, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2026 Notes") in connection with the Debt
Shelf Registration in a public debt offering (the "Third Public Debt
Offering").  The 2026 Notes are due on August 15, 2026 and bear interest at
7.57%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15,
commencing February 15, 1997.  The 2026 Notes are redeemable at any time after
August 15, 2006 by the Operating Partnership pursuant to the terms thereof.
The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $149 million
in connection with this issuance.  Prior to the issuance of the 2026 Notes,
the Company entered into an interest rate protection agreement to effectively
fix the interest rate cost of this issuance to 7.5%.  The Operating
Partnership received a one-time settlement payment from this transaction,
which was approximately $0.6 million, which amount is

                                      F-34

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

being amortized over the term of the 2026 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As
of December 31, 1997, the unamortized balance was approximately $0.5 million.

        On September 18, 1996, the Operating Partnership filed with the SEC a
Form S-3 Registration Statement to register $500 million of debt securities
(the "1996 Debt Shelf Registration").  The SEC declared this Registration
effective on September 23, 1996.

        In October 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $150 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes (the "2017 Notes") in connection with the 1996 Debt
Shelf Registration in a public debt offering (the "Fourth Public Debt
Offering").  The 2017 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being
amortized over the life of the 2017 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of
December 31, 1997 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $1.2
million.  The 2017 Notes are due on October 15, 2017 and bear interest at
7.125%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15,
commencing April 15, 1998.  The 2017 Notes are redeemable at any time by the
Operating Partnership pursuant to the terms thereof.  The Operating
Partnership received net proceeds of approximately $147.4 million in
connection with this issuance.

        In November 1997, the Operating Partnership issued $200 million of
unsecured fixed rate notes in connection with the 1996 Debt Shelf Registration
in a public debt offering (the "Fifth Public Debt Offering").  Of the $200
million issued, $150 million of these notes are due November 15, 2001 (the
"2001 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.55%, which is payable
semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May 15, 1998.
The remaining $50 million of these notes are due November 15, 2003 (the "2003
Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 6.65%, which is payable semiannually in
arrears on May 15 and November 15, commencing on May 15, 1998.  The 2001 Notes
were issued at a discount, which is being amortized over the life of the 2001
Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1997 the unamortized
discount balance was approximately $0.3 million.  The Operating Partnership
received net proceeds of approximately $148.9 million in connection with the
2001 Notes.  The 2003 Notes were issued at a discount, which is being
amortized over the life of the 2003 Notes on a straight-line basis.  As of
December 31, 1997 the unamortized discount balance was approximately $0.1
million.  The Operating Partnership received net proceeds of approximately
$49.6 million in connection with the 2003 Notes.  Prior to the issuance of the
2001 and 2003 Notes, the Operating Partnership entered into two interest rate
protection agreements to effectively fix the interest rate costs of such
issuances. The Operating Partnership made a one time settlement payment of
each protection transaction, which was approximately $5 million and $1.7
million, respectively, which are being amortized over the term of the Notes on
a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1997 the unamortized balance of
these costs were approximately $4.9 million and $1.6 million, respectively.

        Included in the note balance are four unsecured note issuances assumed
in connection with the Wellsford Merger.  These are discussed in the following
three paragraphs.

        In January 1995, $100 million of senior unsecured notes due February
1, 2002 (the "2002-A Notes") were issued.  The 2002-A Notes bear interest at a
rate of 9.375%, which is payable

                                      F-35

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

semiannually in arrears on August 1 and February 1.  In connection with the
assumption of the 2002-A Notes, the Company recorded a premium in the amount
of $5.6 million, which is being amortized over the remaining life of the notes
on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31, 1997, the unamortized premium
balance relating to the 2002-A Notes was approximately $4.9 million.

        In August 1995,  $125 million of senior unsecured notes were issued.
Of the $125 million issued, $55 million of these notes are due August 15, 2000
(the "2000 Notes") and bear interest at a rate of 7.25%, which is payable
semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15.  The remaining $70
million of these notes are due August 15, 2005 (the "2005 Notes") and bear
interest at a rate of 7.75%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on
February 1 and August 1.

        In November 1996, $25 million of medium term unsecured floating rate
notes due November 24, 1999 (the "1999-A Notes") were issued.  The 1999-A
Notes bear interest at 90 day LIBOR plus 0.32%, which is payable quarterly in
arrears on the 25th day of each February, May, August and November.

        Also included in the note balance are two unsecured note issuances
assumed in connection with the EWR Merger.  These are discussed in the
following two paragraphs.

        In April 1997, $75 million of senior unsecured notes due April 15,
2004 (the "2004 Notes") were issued.  The 2004 Notes bear interest at a rate
of 7.5%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on October 15 and April 15.
In connection with the assumption of the 2004 Notes, the Company recorded a
premium in the amount of $1.7 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31,
1997, the unamortized premium balance relating to the 2004 Notes was
approximately $1.7 million.

        In April 1997, $50 million of senior unsecured notes due April 15,
2007 (the "2007 Notes") were issued.  The 2007 Notes bear interest at a rate
of 7.625%, which is payable semiannually in arrears on October 15 and April
15.  In connection with the assumption of the 2007 Notes, the Company recorded
a premium in the amount of $1.6 million, which is being amortized over the
remaining life of the notes on a straight-line basis.  As of December 31,
1997, the unamortized premium balance relating to the 2007 Notes was
approximately $1.6 million.

        In regard to all of the interest rate protection agreements mentioned
in the previous paragraphs, the Company believes that it has limited exposure
to the extent of non-performance by the counterparties of each agreement since
each counterpart is a major U.S. financial institution, and the Company does
not anticipate their non-performance.

14.  EMPLOYEE TRANSACTIONS

        As of December 31, 1997, the outstanding principal balance on the
employee notes issued in connection with Common Shares purchased was, in the
aggregate, approximately $5.14 million. Douglas Crocker II, President and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and four other officers

                                      F-36

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

had purchased an aggregate of 194,000 Common Shares at prices which range from
$26 to $31.625 per Common Share.  These purchases were financed by loans made
by the Company in the aggregate amount of approximately $5.4 million.  The
employee notes accrue interest, payable in arrears, at rates that range from
6.15% per annum to 7.93% per annum.  Scheduled maturities are at various dates
through March 2005.  The employee notes are recourse to Mr. Crocker and the
four other officers and are collateralized by pledges of the 194,000 Common
Shares purchased. Subsequent to December 31,1997, one of the four other
officers repaid his note in full.

        In addition, as of December 31, 1997, the outstanding principal
balance on additional notes issued to Mr. Crocker and one other officer was
approximately $0.7 million.  These notes accrue interest, payable in arrears,
at one month LIBOR plus 2% per annum.  Scheduled maturities are at various
dates through March 2003.  The notes are recourse to Mr. Crocker and the other
officer and are collateralized by pledges of options, share awards and Common
Shares purchased.

        Mr. Crocker has a deferred compensation agreement (the "Deferred
Compensation Agreement") which Deferred Compensation Agreement will provide
Mr. Crocker with a salary benefit after his termination of employment with the
Company.  If Mr. Crocker's employment is terminated without cause, he would be
entitled to annual deferred compensation for a 10-year period commencing on
the termination date in an amount equal to his average annual base
compensation (before bonus) for the prior five calendar years, multiplied by a
percentage equal to 10% per year since December 31, 1995.  In the event Mr.
Crocker's employment is terminated as a result of his death, permanent
disability or incapacity, he would be entitled to a similar amount except the
annual percentage would be 15% and the maximum paid per year would not exceed
100% of his average base salary.  Should Mr. Crocker be terminated for cause
or should he choose to leave voluntarily without good reason, he would not be
entitled to any deferred compensation. The Company recognized approximately
$0.5 million of compensation expense for both 1997 and 1996 related to this
Deferred Compensation Agreement.

        In addition, Gerald Spector, Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company, entered into a  Deferred Compensation
Agreement in 1997, which agreement provides Mr. Spector with a salary benefit
after his termination of employment with the Company.  If Mr. Spector's
employment is terminated without cause, he would be entitled to annual
deferred compensation for a 15-year period commencing on the termination date
in an amount equal to 75% of his average annual base compensation (before
bonus) for the prior five calendar years, multiplied by a percentage equal to
6.67% per each year since December 31, 1996.  In the event Mr. Spector's
employment is terminated as a result of his death, permanent disability or
incapacity, he would be entitled to a similar amount except that the annual
percentage would be 10%, not 6.67%.  Should Mr. Spector be terminated for
cause or should he choose to leave voluntarily without good reason, he would
not be entitled to any deferred compensation. The Company recognized
approximately $0.2 million of compensation expense in 1997 related to this
Deferred Compensation Agreement.

        The Board of Trustees also approved a share distributions agreement
(the "Share Distributions Agreement") for Mr. Crocker.  On January 18, 1996,
Mr. Crocker was issued options

                                      F-37

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

to purchase 100,000 Common Shares at the then current market price of the
Common Shares, which vest over a 3-year period and are effective for 10 years.
Pursuant to the terms of the Share Distributions Agreement, upon the exercise
of any of these options, Mr. Crocker would be entitled to an amount equal to
the amount of Common Share distributions that would have been paid on said
shares being exercised had he owned said shares for the period from January
18, 1996 until the date of the exercise of the options in question.  Mr.
Crocker's death or termination of employment would not affect this agreement
with the Company.

        In May, 1997, Jeffrey Lynford and Edward Lowenthal (trustees of the
Company) each executed a consulting agreement with the Company.  Each
consulting agreement has a term of five years from May 30, 1997, the closing
date of the Wellsford Merger.  Pursuant to the consulting agreements, each of
Messrs. Lynford and Lowenthal will serve as a senior management consultant to
the Company and will receive compensation at the rate of $200,000 per year
plus reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.

        In connection with the EWR Merger, in December, 1997, Stephen Evans
executed a consulting agreement with an affiliate of the Company.  The
consulting agreement has a term of two years and expires on December 31, 1999.
Pursuant to the consulting agreement, Mr. Evans will serve as a senior
management consultant to the Company and will receive compensation at the rate
of $225,000 per year.  Mr. Evans also received an option to purchase 115,500
Common Shares that will vest in three equal annual installments and will have
an exercise price equal to $50.125 per Common Share. Mr. Evans will also be
eligible to participate in all of the Company's employee benefit plans in
which persons in comparable positions participate, treating Mr. Evans as an
employee.

        Also in connection with the EWR Merger, in December, 1997, Richard
Berry executed an employment agreement with an affiliate of the Company which
expires on December 31, 2000 and provides for cash compensation of $250,000
per annum.  Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Berry exchanged all unvested
restricted shares of Evans common shares at the time of the EWR Merger into
18,747 restricted Common Shares of the Company, which will vest on December
31, 2000. Mr. Berry also received an option to purchase 77,500 Common Shares
that will vest in three equal annual installments and will have an exercise
price equal to $50.125 per Common Share.  The agreement also provided that Mr.
Berry will be eligible to participate in all of the Company's employee benefit
plans which persons in comparable positions participate.

        In December, 1997, Mr. Berry also entered into a Deferred Compensation
Agreement with the Company which will pay benefits only in the event Mr.
Berry's employment with the Company is terminated prior to January 1, 2000. In
such a case, the amount payable under Mr. Berry's agreement will equal the
value of any restricted Common Shares received in exchange for EWR common
shares which are forfeited upon his termination of employment.  The payment
will be made in two semi-annual installments over the one-year period
following termination of employment, and interest of 9% per annum will accrue
on the balance over the one-year payment period.

                                      F-38

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        The Company has established a defined contribution plan (the "401(k)
Plan") that provides retirement benefits for employees that meet minimum
employment criteria.  The Company contributes 100% of the first 4% of eligible
compensation that a participant contributes to the 401(k) Plan.  Participants
are vested in the Company's contributions over five years.  The Company made
contributions in the amount of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31,
1996 and expects to make contributions in the amount of approximately $1.5
million for the year ended December 31, 1997.

15.  DEPOSITS-RESTRICTED

        Deposits-restricted as of December 31, 1997 primarily included a
deposit in the amount of $20 million held in a third party escrow account made
to provide third party construction financing in connection with the Joint
Venture Agreement.  Also, approximately $8.8 million was held in third party
escrow accounts made in connection with the Company's disposition of Diplomat
South and for several expected 1998 acquisitions.  In addition, approximately
$7.6 million was for tenant security and utility deposits for certain of the
Company's Properties.

        Deposits-restricted, as of December 31, 1996, primarily included
deposits in the amount of approximately $16.4 million held in third party
escrow accounts which were made in connection with five Properties acquired in
1997.  In addition, approximately $3.7 million was for tenant security and
utility deposits for certain of the Company's Properties.

                                      F-39

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

16.  GAIN ON EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT

        In June 1995, the Company paid approximately $12.6 million in full
satisfaction of a $14.6 million mortgage note obligation related to one of its
Properties.  As a result, the Company recognized a gain of $2 million on the
extinguishment of this indebtedness.

17.  SUMMARIZED PRO FORMA CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

        The following Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Operations
has been prepared as if the March 1997 Common Share Offerings, the Series D
Preferred Share Offering, the June 1997 Common Share Offerings, the Wellsford
Merger, the September 1997 Common Share Offering, the Series G Preferred Share
Offering, the Fourth Public Debt Offering, the October 1997 Common Share
Offering, the Fifth Public Debt Offering, the December 1997 Common Share
Offerings, the EWR Merger, the acquisition of an additional 124 Properties,
including the related assumption of $597.2 million of mortgage indebtedness,
the repayment of $113.4 million of mortgage indebtedness and the disposition
of seven properties (as described in Note 3, Note 4, Note 6, Note 8, Note 11
and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) had occurred on
January 1, 1997.  This would result in 89,085,265 Common Shares outstanding.
In management's opinion, the Summarized Pro Forma Condensed Statement of
Operations does not purport to present what actual results would have been had
the above transactions occurred on January 1, 1997, or to project results for
any future period.  The amounts presented in the following statement are in
thousands except for share amounts:

                                      F-40

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)



18.  SHARE OPTION PLAN

        Pursuant to the Company's Amended and Restated 1993 Share Option and
Share Award Plan (the "Third Amended Option and Award Plan") officers,
directors, key employees and consultants of the Company may be offered the
opportunity to acquire Common Shares through the grant of share options
("Options") including non-qualified share options ("NQSOs"), incentive share
options ("ISOs") and share appreciation rights ("SARs") or may be granted
restricted or non- restricted shares.  Additionally, under the Option and
Award Plan, certain officers of the Company may be awarded Common Shares,
subject to conditions and restrictions as described in the Option and Award
Plan.  Options and SARs are sometimes referred to herein as "Awards".  As to
the Options that have been granted through December 31, 1997, generally,
one-third are exercisable one year after the initial grant, one-third are
exercisable two years following the date such Options were granted and the
remaining one-third are exercisable three years following the date such
Options were granted.

        The Company has reserved 5,600,000 Common Shares for issuance under
the Option and Award Plan.  The Options generally are granted at the fair
market value of the Company's Common Shares at the date of grant, vest over a
three year period, are exercisable upon vesting and expire ten years from the
date of grant.  The exercise price for all Options under the Third Amended
Option and Award Plan shall not be less than the fair market value of the
underlying Common Shares at the time the Option is granted.  The Third Amended
Option and Award Plan will terminate at such time as no further Common Shares
are available for issuance upon the exercise of Options and all outstanding
Options have expired or been exercised.  The Board of Trustees may at any time
amend or terminate the Third Amended Option and Award Plan, but termination
will not affect Awards previously granted.  Any Options, which had vested
prior to such a termination, would remain exercisable by the holder thereof.

        The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion

                                      F-41

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," (APB No. 25) in the
computation of compensation expense.  Under APB No. 25's intrinsic value
method, compensation expense is determined by computing the excess of the
market price of the shares over the exercise price on the measurement date.
For the Company's share options, the intrinsic value on the measurement date
(or grant date) is zero, and no compensation expense is recognized.  Financial
Accounting Standards Board No. 123 (FASB No. 123) requires the Company to
disclose pro forma net income and income per share as if a fair value based
accounting method had been used in the computation of compensation expense.
The fair value of the options computed under FASB No. 123 would be recognized
over the vesting period of the options.  The fair value for the Company's
options granted subsequent to December 31, 1994 was estimated at the time the
options were granted using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions for 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 6.51%, 6.35% and 6.33%; dividend yields of 7.64%,
6.98% and 5.32%; volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Company's Common Shares of 0.226, 0.226 and 0.218; and a weighted-average
expected life of the option of seven years.

        The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable.  In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
volatility.  Because the Company's Options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
management's opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a
reliable single measure of the fair value of its Options.

        For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
Options is amortized to expense over the Options' vesting period.  The
following is the pro forma information for the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995:



        The table below summarizes the Option activity of the Third Amended
Option and Award Plan for the three years ended December 31, 1997:

                                      F-42

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)



        As of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, 1,329,516 shares, 898,075
shares and 743,368 shares were exercisable, respectively.  Exercise prices for
Options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 ranged from $26 to $54.8125.
Expiration dates ranged from August 11, 2003 to December 24, 2007.  The
remaining weighted-average contractual life of those Options was 8.27 years.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of Options granted during 1997 was
$7.37.

19.  EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

        Under the Company's Employee Share Purchase Plan certain eligible
officers, trustees and employees of the Company may annually acquire up to
$100,000 of Common Shares of the Company. The aggregate number of Common
Shares available under the Employee Share Purchase Plan shall not exceed
1,000,000, subject to adjustment by the Board of Trustees.  The Common Shares
may be purchased quarterly at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of: (a) the
closing price for a share on the last day of such quarter; and (b) the greater
of: (i) the closing price for a share on the first day of such quarter, and
(ii) the average closing price for a share for all the business days in the
quarter.  During 1996, the Company issued 39,458 Common Shares at a net price
of $30.44 per share.  During 1997, the Company issued 84,183 Common Shares at
net prices that ranged from $35.63 per share to $42.08 per share and raised
approximately $3.2 million in connection therewith.

20.  DISTRIBUTION REINVESTMENT AND SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

        On November 3, 1997, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register 7,000,000 Common Shares pursuant to a
Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan.  The registration statement
was declared effective on November 25, 1997.

        The Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (the "DRIP
Plan") of the Company provides holders of record and beneficial owners of
Common Shares, Preferred Shares, and limited partnership interests in the
Operating Partnership with a simple and convenient method of investing

                                      F-43

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

cash distributions in additional Common Shares.  Common Shares may also be
purchased on a monthly basis with optional cash payments made by participants
in the Plan and interested new investors, not currently shareholders of the
Company, at the market price of the Common Shares less a discount ranging
between 0% and 5% (as determined in accordance with the DRIP Plan).

21.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

        The Company, as an owner of real estate, is subject to various
environmental laws of Federal and local governments.  Compliance by the
Company with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition and results of operations.  However, the Company
cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on its current
Properties or on properties that it may acquire in the future.

        The Company does not believe there is any other litigation, except as
mentioned in the previous paragraph, threatened against the Company other than
routine litigation arising out of the ordinary course of business, some of
which is expected to be covered by liability insurance, none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.

        In connection with the Joint Venture Agreement, as discussed in Note
7, the Company is obligated to fund an additional $20 million in connection
with the third party construction financing.

        In connection with the Wellsford Merger, the Company has provided a
standby obligation in the amount of $30 million pursuant to an agreement
entered into with Wellsford Real Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation
("WRP"), for the construction financing for a multifamily development project
located in Denver, Colorado.  In addition, the Company has provided a $14.8
million credit enhancement with respect to bonds issued to finance certain
public improvements at the multifamily development project.

        The Company has lease agreements with an affiliated party covering
office space occupied by the management offices located in Tampa, Florida (the
"Tampa Office") and Chicago, Illinois (the "Chicago Office").  The Tampa
Office agreement expires on October 31, 2001 and the Chicago Office agreement
expires on July 31, 2000.

        The Company also has seven additional lease agreements with
unaffiliated parties covering space occupied by the management offices located
in Dallas, Texas (the "Dallas Office"); Bethesda, Maryland (the "Bethesda
Office"); Denver, Colorado (the "Denver Office"); Seattle, Washington (the
"Seattle Office"); Atlanta, Georgia (the "Atlanta Office"); Scottsdale,
Arizona (the "Scottsdale Office") and Irvine, California (the "Irvine
Office").  The lease agreement for the Dallas Office expires on February 28,
1999, the lease agreement for the Bethesda Office expires on November 30,
1998, the lease agreement for the Denver Office expires on December 31, 2002,
the lease agreement for the Seattle Office expires on November 30, 2000, the
lease agreement for the Atlanta Office expires on May 14, 2001, the lease
agreement for the Scottsdale Office expires on July 31, 1999 and the lease
agreement for the Irvine Office expires on July 31, 1998.

                                      F-44

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        The Company also has a lease agreement with an affiliated party
covering office space occupied by the corporate headquarters located in
Chicago, Illinois.  This agreement, as amended, expires on July 31, 2001.  In
addition, commencing September 1, 1996, the Company increased the office space
occupied by its corporate personnel.  The lease agreement covering the
additional space expires on April 29, 1998.

        During the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, total
rentals, including a portion of real estate taxes, insurance, repairs and
utilities, aggregated $1,491,766, $1,020,311, and $1,049,731, respectively.

        The minimum basic aggregate rental commitment under the above
described leases in years succeeding December 31, 1997 is as follows:



22.  TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES

        Certain related entities provided services to the Company.  These
included, but were not limited to, Rosenberg & Liebentritt, P.C., which
provided legal services, and Greenberg & Pociask, Ltd., which provided tax and
accounting services.  Fees paid to these related entities in the aggregate
amounted to approximately $1.3 million, $0.7 million and $2.5 million for the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  In addition, The
Riverside Agency, Inc., which provided insurance brokerage services, was paid
fees and reimbursed premiums and loss claims in the amount of $0.3 million,
$4.1 million and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995, respectively.  As of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, $643,519,
$315,700 and $366,300, respectively, was owed to Rosenberg & Liebentritt, P.C.
for legal fees incurred in connection with securities offerings, litigation
matters, property acquisitions and other general corporate matters.

        Equity Group Investments, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries,
including Equity Assets Management, Inc., Eagle Flight Services, Equity
Properties & Development, L.P. and EPMC ("EGI"), have provided certain
services to the Company which include, but are not limited to, financial and
accounting services, investor relations, corporate secretarial, computer and
support services, real estate tax evaluation services, market consulting and
research services, financing services, information systems services and
property development services.  Fees paid to EGI for these services amounted
to $1.1 million, $1.3 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December
31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Amounts due to EGI were approximately
$74,578, $0.3 million and $1.1 million as of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.

                                      F-45

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        In connection with the affiliated lease agreements discussed in Note
21, the Company paid Equity Office Holdings, L.L.C. ("EOH") $145,511, $118,919
and $104,421 in connection with the Chicago Office, $177,793, $137,638 and
$9,783 in connection with the Tampa Office and $632,693, $409,392 and $632,725
in connection with the space occupied by the corporate headquarters for the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Amounts due to
EOH were approximately $59,675 and $46,435 as of December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. As of December 31, 1995, no amounts were owed to EOH.

        In connection with the Private Equity Offering and the Shelf Offering,
the Company paid Equity Institutional Investors, Inc. ("EII") consulting fees
in the amount of $200,000 for the year ended December 31, 1995.  As of
December 31, 1997 and 1996, no amounts were owed to EII for consulting
services.

        Artery Property Management, Inc. ("Artery") provided the Company
consulting services with regard to property acquisitions and additional
business opportunities.  Fees paid for those services and reimbursed expenses
amounted to approximately $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 1996 and 1995.

        Rudnick & Wolfe, a law firm in which Mr. Errol Halperin, a trustee of
the Company, is a partner, provided legal services to the Company.  Fees paid
to this firm amounted to approximately $2.3 million, $4,300 and $41,300 for
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

        In addition, the Company has provided acquisitions, asset and property
management services to certain related entities for properties not owned by
the Company.  Fees received for providing such services were approximately
$5.7 million, $6.7 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

23.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):

        The following unaudited quarterly data has been prepared on the basis
of a December 31 year end.  The 1997 and 1996 net income per weighted average
Common Share amounts have been presented and, where appropriate, restated to
comply with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per
Share.  For further discussion of net income per weighted average Common Share
outstanding and impact of Statement No. 128, see Note 5 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  Amounts are in thousands, except for per
share amounts.

                                      F-46

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)





                                      F-47

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

24.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

        On January 7, 1998, the Company acquired Cityscape Apartments, a
156-unit multifamily property located in St. Louis Park, Minnesota, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of approximately $12.3 million.

        On January 9, 1998, the Company acquired 740 River Drive Apartments, a
162-unit multifamily property located in St. Paul, Minnesota, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of approximately $12.8 million,
which included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $7
million.

        On January 13, 1998, the Company acquired Prospect Towers Apartments,
a 157-unit multifamily property, including a vacant parcel of land, located in
Hackensack, New Jersey, from an unaffiliated third party for a purchase price
of approximately $36.3 million, which included the assumption of mortgage
indebtedness of approximately $14.9 million.

        On January 16, 1998, the Company acquired Park Place Apartments, a
229-unit multifamily property located in Houston, Texas, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $13.6 million, which
included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $10.2
million.

        On January 16, 1998, the Company acquired Park Westend Apartments, a
312-unit multifamily property located in Richmond, Virginia, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of approximately $13.3 million,
which included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $7.2
million.

        On January 27, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 4,000,000
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $50.4375 per
share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $195.3 million in
connection therewith.

        On January 29, 1998, the Company acquired Emerald Bay at Winter Park
Apartments, a 431-unit multifamily property located in Winter Park, Florida,
from an unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of approximately $15.7
million.

        On February 3, 1998, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-3
Registration Statement to register $1 billion of equity securities.  The SEC
declared this Registration effective on February 27, 1998.

        On February 5, 1998, the Company acquired Farnham Park Apartments, a
216-unit multifamily property located in Houston, Texas, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $15.7 million, which
included the assumption of mortgage indebtedness of approximately $11.5
million.

        On February 18, 1998, the Company completed offerings of 988,340
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $50.625 per
share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $47.5 million in
connection therewith.

                                      F-48

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (CONTINUED)

        On February 23, 1998, the Company completed an offering of 1 million
publicly registered Common Shares, which were sold at a price of $48 per
share.  The Company received net proceeds of approximately $47.5 million in
connection therewith.

        On February 25, 1998, the Company acquired Plantation Apartments, a
232-unit multifamily property located in Houston, Texas, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $10 million.

        On February 27, 1998, the Company acquired Balcones Club Apartments, a
312-unit multifamily property located in Austin, Texas, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $12.3 million.

        Through February 1998, the Company sold approximately 639,000 Common
Shares pursuant to the DRIP Plan and raised proceeds of approximately $31.7
million.

        On March 2, 1998, the Company acquired Coach Lantern Apartments, a
90-unit multifamily property located in Scarborough, Maine, from an
unaffiliated third party for a purchase price of approximately $4.7 million.

        On March 2, 1998, the Company acquired Foxcroft Apartments, a 104-unit
multifamily property located in Scarborough, Maine, from an unaffiliated third
party for a purchase price of approximately $4.9 million.

        On March 2, 1998, the Company acquired Yarmouth Woods Apartments, a
138-unit multifamily property located in Yarmouth, Maine, from an unaffiliated
third party for a purchase price of approximately $6.6 million.

        On March 2, 1998, the Company declared a $0.67 distribution per Common
Share, $0.585938 per Series A Preferred Share, $0.570313 per Series B
Depositary Share and per Series C Depositary Share, $0.5375 per Series D
Depositary Share, $0.603125 per Series F Preferred Share and $0.453125 per
Series G Depositary Share for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 to shareholders
of record on March 27, 1998.  In addition, the Company declared a $0.4375 per
Series E Preferred Share for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 to shareholders
of record on March 13, 1998.

        On March 12, 1998, the Company disposed of two Properties for a total
sales price of $16.7 million.

                                      F-49

 
To the Board of Trustees
Equity Residential Properties Trust

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of
Equity Residential Properties Trust referred to in our report dated February
14, 1996, which financial statements are included in this Form 10-K, we have
also audited the 1995 information in the financial statement schedule listed
in the Index to the Financial Statements and Schedule.  In our opinion, this
financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
1995 information required to be set forth therein.


                                       /s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP
                                       -------------------------------
                                       GRANT THORNTON LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 14, 1996

                                      S-1

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-2

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-3

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-4

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-5

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-6

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-7

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-8

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-9

 
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                              December 31, 1997









                                      S-10

 
                                 SCHEDULE III
                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                              DECEMBER 31, 1997


NOTES:

(A)  The balance of furniture & fixtures included in the total amount was
     $232,636,142 as of December 31, 1997.
(B)  The aggregate cost for Federal Income Tax purposes as of December 31,
     1997 was approximately $6.2 billion.
(C)  The life to compute depreciation for furniture & fixtures is 7 years.
(D)  These two properties are encumbered by $14,947,187 in bonds.
(E)  These 17 properties are encumbered by $136,000,000 in bonds.
(F)  These four properties are encumbered by $15,500,000 in bonds.
(G)  This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents
     furniture, fixtures and equipment owned by the Management Business.
(H)  This asset consists of various acquisition dates and represents
     furniture, fixtures and equipment owned by the Operating Partnership.
(I)  Improvements are net of write-off of fully depreciated assets which are
     no longer in service.
(J)  Combined with Cedar Cove.
(K)  Formerly known as Oxford & Sussex.
(L)  Formerly known as Post Place.
(M)  Formerly known as The Vinings at Coral Springs.
(N)  Formerly known as The Plantations (NC).
(O)  These five properties are pledged as additional collateral in connection
     with the tax-exempt bond refinancing.
(P)  These 21 properties are encumbered by $133,669,779 in bonds.
(Q)  These 5 properties are encumbered by a $50,200,125 note payable.
(R)  Balances represent development properties Montierra, The Retreat and
     Vista Grove. These apartment communities are currently under construction
     and/or are in the process of being leased up.

*   Four Lakes was constructed in phases between 1968 & 1988.
(#) The Lodge-Texas was struck by a tornado that destroyed most of the
    property. The property was reconstructed during 1989 & 1990.
(x) Pines of Springdale was constructed in phases between 1985 & 1987.

                                      S-11

 
                                 Schedule III

                     EQUITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST
             REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (CONTINUED)
                            (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


The changes in total real estate for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996,
and 1995 are as follows:



The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995 are as follows:



                                      S-12

