
10-K405









                               FORM 10-K

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)
    x    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (Fee Required)

            For fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                              OR

_____  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (No Fee Required)

For the transition period from               to

                Commission File Number:  1-8610

                 SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION

      Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
        I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

         175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                 Telephone Number 210-821-4105


  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                Name of each exchange
          Title of each class                      on which registered

          Common Shares                          New York, Chicago and
          (Par Value $1.00 Per Share)                 Pacific Stock
                                                      Exchanges

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes   X     No _____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   ( X )

Based on composite closing sales price on February 28, 1995, the
aggregate market value of all voting stock held by non-affiliates was
$25,290,132,635.

As of February 28, 1995, 607,570,754 shares of Common Stock were
outstanding.


              DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual report to
    shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (Parts I and
    II).

(2) Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's Notice of 1995
    Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated
    March 14, 1995 (Parts III and IV).





                       
                             PART I


Item                                                             Page

1. Business
2. Properties
3. Legal Proceedings
4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


 Executive Officers of the Registrant


                            PART II

5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
     Stockholder Matters
6. Selected Financial and Operating Data
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
     and Results of Operations
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
     and Financial Disclosure


                            PART III

10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
11.   Executive Compensation
12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management
13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions


                            PART IV

14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
     8-K
                                   


                                PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

Southwestern Bell Corporation (SBC) is a diversified communications
holding company, with various subsidiaries providing
telecommunications services and products, directory advertising and
publishing, business, consumer and cellular telecommunications
equipment, and owning cable television interests in both domestic and
international markets.  SBC has its principal executive offices at 175
E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233 (telephone number 210-821-
4105).

In order to better reflect SBC's position as a diversified global
communications company, SBC's Board of Directors approved in September
1994 a change in the corporate name to SBC Communications Inc., subject
to shareowner approval at the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareowners
scheduled for April 1995.

SBC was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983
by AT&T Corp. (AT&T) as one of seven regional holding companies (RHCs)
formed to hold AT&T's local telephone companies.  AT&T divested SBC by
means of a spin-off of stock to its shareowners on January 1, 1984
(divestiture).  The divestiture was made pursuant to a consent decree,
referred to as the Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ), issued by the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia (District
Court).

THE MFJ AND LINE OF BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS

The MFJ, as originally approved by the District Court in 1982, placed
restrictions on the types of businesses in which SBC could engage.
The principal restriction prohibits SBC from providing
telecommunications services between Local Access and Transport Areas
(LATAs), which are generally centered on a standard metropolitan
statistical area or other identifiable community of interest.  The MFJ
also initially restricted SBC from providing information services,
engaging in nontelecommunications lines of business, and manufacturing
or providing telecommunications products, other than the provision of
customer premises equipment (CPE) manufactured by others.  CPE, as
defined in the MFJ, represents equipment used on customers' premises
to originate, route or terminate telecommunications.  These services
and products are collectively known as "restricted lines of business."

The MFJ permits SBC to obtain relief from these restrictions upon a
showing that there is no substantial possibility that it could use its
monopoly power to impede competition in the specific market it seeks
to enter (the Waiver Standard).  As a result of proceedings before the
District Court since divestiture, the restrictions against engaging in
nontelecommunications lines of business and providing intraLATA
information services have been removed.  SBC has also been authorized
to engage in the restricted lines of business outside the United
States, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent an impact on
United States markets.  SBC has submitted various requests to the
District Court which seek to remove or modify the remaining
restrictions.  These include, among others, pending waiver requests to
provide information services on an interLATA basis and to provide
interLATA long-distance service outside the five-state area (defined
below) and to cellular customers.  In addition, SBC and two other RHCs
have asked the District Court, in a joint petition filed in July 1994,
to vacate the MFJ.  This matter is currently pending.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS

SBC provides services and products through several subsidiaries, which
include:  Southwestern Bell Telephone Company (Telephone Company),
Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems, Inc. (Mobile Systems), SBC
International, Inc. (SBC International), Southwestern Bell Yellow
Pages, Inc. (Yellow Pages), Southwestern Bell Telecommunications, Inc.
(Telecom) and SBC Media Ventures, Inc. (Media Ventures).  These
services and products (which are described more fully below) include
landline and wireless telecommunications services, sales of
advertising for and publication of yellow pages and white pages
directories, sales of customer premises, private business exchange
(PBX) and cellular equipment, and cable television services. Landline
telecommunications services are provided in the states of (listed by
number of access lines) Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Kansas and Arkansas
(five-state area) by the Telephone Company.  Wireless
telecommunications services are provided by Mobile Systems.

SBC's revenues are categorized for financial reporting purposes as
local service (substantially all of which were provided by the
Telephone Company and Mobile Systems), network access (provided by the
Telephone Company), long-distance service (substantially all of which
were provided by the Telephone Company), directory advertising
(principally provided by Yellow Pages) and other (including equipment
sales at Mobile Systems and Telecom, nonregulated products and
services provided by the Telephone Company, billing and collection
services for interexchange carriers provided by the Telephone Company,
and cable television services provided by SBC International and Media
Ventures).

The following table sets forth for SBC the percentage of total
operating revenues by any class of service which accounted for 10% or
more of total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal
years.

                                            Percentage
                                             of Total
                                             Operating
                                             Revenues

                                       1994      1993      1992
Local service:                                                 
     Landline                           35%       37%       37%
     Wireless                           15%       12%       10%
Long-distance service                    8%        9%       10%
Network access                          25%       25%       25%

     Telecommunications services

Telecommunications services include local, long-distance and network
access services.  Local services involve the transport of landline and
wireless telecommunications traffic between telephones and other CPE
located within the same local service calling area.  Local services
include:  basic local exchange service, extended area service,
dedicated private line services for voice and special services,
directory assistance and various custom calling services.  Long-
distance services involve the transport of telecommunications traffic
between local calling areas within the same LATA (intraLATA), except
for certain wireless service areas which cover more than one LATA, for
which SBC has obtained MFJ waivers.  Long-distance services also
include such other services as Wide Area Telecommunications Service
(WATS or 800 services) and other special services. Network access
services connect a subscriber's telephone or other equipment to the
transmission facilities of non-Telephone Company carriers which
provide long-distance (principally interLATA) and other communications
services.  Network access services are either switched, which use a
switched communications path between the carrier and the customer, or
special, which use a direct nonswitched path.

The Telephone Company is SBC's largest subsidiary, providing
approximately 65% of SBC's consolidated net income in 1994.  The
Telephone Company provides its services over approximately 9 million
residential and 4 million business access lines in the five-state
area.  During 1994, nearly two-thirds of the Telephone Company's
access line growth occurred in Texas.

During 1994, the Telephone Company continued to expand its offering of
optional services including Caller ID, a feature which displays the
telephone number of the person calling and the caller's name in
certain markets; Call Return, a feature that redials the number of the
last incoming call; and Call Blocker, a feature which allows customers
to automatically reject calls from a designated list of telephone
numbers.  Caller ID is now being offered in certain markets in all of
the states in the Telephone Company's five-state area.

The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has certain rules that
impact the manner in which the Telephone Company may offer network
services for enhanced service providers.  Enhanced services are
services other than basic transmission services.  Under these rules,
the Telephone Company is permitted to offer enhanced services either
on its own or jointly with its affiliates, subject to nonstructural
safeguards designed to permit the Telephone Company's competitors to
acquire needed network services on an efficient, non-discriminatory
basis and to reduce the risk of cross-subsidization. These safeguards
include accounting and reporting procedures and Open Network
Architecture (ONA) requirements, which represent the Telephone
Company's plan to provide equal access to its network to all enhanced
service providers.  Enhanced services are deregulated at the federal
level, and thus far none of the state commissions to which the
Telephone Company is subject has asserted jurisdiction over intrastate
enhanced services.  The nonstructural safeguards are currently being
reviewed by the FCC as a result of an October 1994 judicial remand,
which charged that the FCC had not adequately explained how ONA would
prevent discrimination against competitors.  While the outcome cannot
be predicted, it is anticipated that the FCC will reaffirm the
nonstructural safeguards.

Telecom provides voice messaging services to medium and large business
customers through its Voice Processing division.  Voice messaging
services are provided under the registered trademark CallNotes to
residential and small business customers through Southwestern Bell
Messaging Services, Inc., another SBC subsidiary.

At the end of 1994, Mobile Systems provided cellular services to
2,979,000 customers, or 7.4 out of every 100 residents living in its
service areas.  These services are provided in 34 metropolitan
markets, including 5 of the nation's top 15 metropolitan areas, as
follows:  Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; Boston, Massachusetts;
St. Louis, Missouri; and Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas.  Mobile Systems (or
partnerships in which it has an ownership interest) is licensed to
provide service in 27 rural service areas and is currently providing
service in all of these markets.  All of these rural service areas are
contiguous to an existing metropolitan service area or another rural
service area operated by Mobile Systems, which allows for the
expansion of service in a way that may add value to customers'
service. Mobile Systems operates in certain areas under the name of
Cellular One by means of a partnership arrangement which holds the
Cellular One service mark, with McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc.
and Vanguard Cellular Systems, Inc.  These areas include both
metropolitan and rural service areas, such as Washington, D.C.;
Chicago, Illinois; and other service areas in Illinois, Massachusetts,
New York, Virginia and West Virginia.

In October 1994, SBC announced the formation of a long-term marketing
alliance between Mobile Systems and GTE in their Texas markets. This
alliance will enable both companies to begin offering cellular service
in each other's markets, using the host company's cellular system.  As
a result, Mobile Systems will have access to a number of additional
markets, including Houston, Austin and El Paso.

Mobile Systems began providing commercial digital service by launching
the largest digital deployment program in North America with
commercial digital service in Chicago in July 1993.  Digital service
improves sound quality, provides a greater degree of privacy on
individual calls, increases call-handling capacity of the networks and
reduces exposure to billing fraud.  Mobile Systems also began
providing commercial digital service in St. Louis in September 1993,
in Dallas-Fort Worth in January 1994, and in Washington-Baltimore in
March 1994.  Mobile Systems plans to begin providing digital service
in Boston during 1995.

In December 1994, SBC acquired for $705 million the domestic cellular
business of Associated Communications Corporation, including cellular
systems in Buffalo, Rochester, Albany and Glens Falls, New York.
These properties are adjacent to smaller cellular systems in Syracuse,
Utica and Ithaca, New York which SBC purchased from other parties in
two separate transactions in the second quarter of 1994.  In October
1994, SBC announced that it entered into an agreement with United
States Cellular Corporation to acquire a cellular property that
operates in and around Watertown, New York.  This acquisition will
increase the number of markets served by Mobile Systems to 62 and
increase Mobile Systems' potential customer base to more than
40 million.  This transaction is expected to close during 1995.

     International

A consortium consisting of SBC International, together with a
subsidiary of France Telecom and a group of Mexican investors led by
Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V., has voting control of Telefonos de Mexico,
S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's national telecommunications company,
through its ownership of all of Telmex's Class AA shares.  The Mexican
investors have voting control of the consortium.  The Class AA shares
owned by SBC International represent approximately 5% of Telmex's
total equity capitalization.  SBC International's total interest in
Telmex, including ownership of Class L shares with limited voting
rights, represents approximately 10% of Telmex's total equity
capitalization.  Telmex provides complete landline and wireless
telecommunications services within Mexico.  At the end of 1994, Telmex
had 8.5 million access lines in service and provided cellular service
to more than 305,000 subscribers.  For additional information
regarding SBC's investment in Telmex, see Note 3, "Equity
Investments," on page 39 of SBC's annual report to shareowners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, which is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

In October 1994, SBC International formed a strategic alliance with
Compagnie Generale des Eaux (CGE), a French diversified public
company.  In December 1994, SBC International invested $615 million
through this alliance to acquire an indirect 10% ownership of Societe
Francaise du Radiotelephone S.A. (SFR), a French national cellular
company, and minority ownership interests in other communications
businesses controlled by CGE.  As part of this alliance, CGE is
expected to invest $247 million to attain a 10% interest in SBC's
Washington-Baltimore wireless operations.  This investment is expected
to occur during the first half of 1995.

In February 1995, SBC International purchased 40% of VTR S.A. (VTR), a
privately owned telecommunications holding company in Chile, for
$317 million.  Through its subsidiaries, VTR provides local,
long-distance, wireless and cable television services in Chile.  VTR
is 51% owned by Grupo Luksic, a large Chilean conglomerate.

SBC International's cable television operations in the United Kingdom
include Midlands Cable Communications and Northwest Cable
Communications, with combined service areas containing 1.3 million
potential households. At the end of 1994, SBC International's cable
television operations in the United Kingdom served approximately
117,000 subscribers, for a penetration rate of 23.7%.  Penetration
rate is defined as the number of customers, as a percentage of
solicited households, that have network access.  Cable operators in
the United Kingdom may provide both cable television and local
exchange services.  At the end of 1994, SBC International provided
local exchange service to approximately 114,000 subscribers.  During
1993 and 1994, SBC International sold 50% of its United Kingdom cable
television operations to Cox Cable Communications (Cox).  SBC
International and Cox each own 50% and share management of the cable
operations.

SBC International also holds a minority interest in Golden Channels, a
cable television provider in Israel.  Golden Channels holds franchises
in areas containing 368,000 potential households.  At the end of 1994,
Golden Channels served approximately 224,000 households, for a
penetration rate of approximately 61%.

In Israel and Australia, SBC International also has interests in
companies involved in the publication of yellow pages directories and
marketing directory software.

     Directory Advertising and Publishing

Yellow Pages publishes nearly 42 million copies of 360 classified
directories within the Telephone Company's five-state area.  The ten
largest revenue-producing yellow pages directories are currently
published in the second half of SBC's fiscal year.  Directory
advertising revenues and expenses associated with yellow pages
directories are recognized in the month the related directory is
published.

     Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

Telecom markets business and residential communications equipment
through two divisions, Business Systems and Original Equipment.
Telecom's offerings range from single-line and cordless telephones to
sophisticated digital PBX systems.  PBX is a private telephone
switching system, usually located on a customer's premises, which
provides intra-premise telephone services as well as access to the
public switched network.

The Business Systems division markets a wide variety of
telecommunications products and services to business customers in the
Telephone Company's five-state area.  The Original Equipment division,
through an exclusive, long-term distribution agreement with Conair
Corporation, markets a full line of residential telephones to
retailers nationwide, under the Freedom Phone name.  Separately, the
Original Equipment division markets residential and business products
to U.S. telephone companies and internationally in 39 countries.

Mobile Systems markets cellular communications equipment in each of
its service areas.

     Domestic Cable Television

In January 1994, SBC completed the purchase of two cable television
systems serving suburban Washington, D.C. for $650 million from Hauser
Communications, Inc.  These systems serve Montgomery County, Maryland,
and Arlington County, Virginia.  The individual systems operate as
Cable TV Montgomery and Cable TV Arlington, which together form SBC's
Media Ventures.  At the end of 1994, these systems served 255,000
customers and passed 402,000 homes.

In February 1994, SBC announced the Telephone Company's plans for a
consumer trial of video and interactive services in Richardson, Texas.
With the construction of the broadband network currently under way,
the Telephone Company plans to begin offering telephone service to
customers over the network in early 1995.  Delivery of video service
is expected to begin during 1996.  Eventually, 42,000 homes will be
included in the trial.

     Printing

In December 1994, Southwestern Bell Printing Company, which operated
plants in Texas and Oklahoma, ceased doing business.  Beginning in
1995, SBC's yellow and white pages directories will be printed by
R.R. Donnelley & Sons.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

In the five-state area, the Telephone Company is subject to regulation
by state commissions which have the power to regulate intrastate rates
and services, including local, long-distance and network access (both
intraLATA and interLATA access within the state) services.  The
Telephone Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with
respect to foreign and interstate rates and services, including
interstate access charges.  Access charges are designed to compensate
the Telephone Company for the use of its facilities for the
origination or termination of long-distance and other communications
by non-Telephone Company carriers.

Additional information relating to federal and state regulation of the
Telephone Company is contained in the registrant's annual report to
shareowners for 1994 under the heading "Regulatory Environment" on
page 27, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

SBC's recently acquired cable systems are subject to federal and local
regulation, including regulation by the FCC and local franchising
authorities, concerning rates, service and programming access.

IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

The FCC authorizes the licensing of only two cellular carriers in each
geographic market.  These cellular licenses have a standard duration
of ten years and are renewable upon application and a showing of
compliance with FCC use and conduct standards.  The FCC licenses
granted to Mobile Systems in Chicago, Illinois; San Antonio, Texas;
Boston, Massachusetts; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and Wichita, Kansas
all expired in 1994.  Renewal applications were filed in each of these
markets during August 1994.  Renewal licenses are expected to be
awarded during 1995.  Renewal licenses were received for Washington,
D.C.; Baltimore, Maryland; Kansas City, Missouri/Kansas; St. Louis,
Missouri; and Dallas, Texas in October 1994.  Renewal applications are
to be filed in the following markets during August 1995:  Gary,
Indiana; Worcester, Massachusetts; Syracuse, New York; Rochester, New
York; and Corpus Christi, Texas.

The FCC adopted an order in 1993 which outlines the development of
licenses for new personal communications services (PCS).  Under an
auction process, up to seven PCS licenses could be awarded in each of
51 geographical areas.  SBC is allowed to participate fully in bidding
for licenses in areas outside its cellular service areas, and may bid
on a smaller license in areas where it has a cellular presence.  SBC
is participating in the auctions, which began in December 1994, and is
pursuing licenses in a number of markets that would complement its
existing cellular service territories.

Cable television systems generally are operated under nonexclusive
permits or "franchises" granted by local governmental authorities.
SBC operates its recently acquired cable systems under franchises
granted by Montgomery County, Maryland (expires May 25, 1998);
Arlington County, Virginia (expires October 18, 2000); and the City of
Gaithersburg, Maryland (expires November 2, 2001).  Each franchise is
renewable upon a showing of compliance with established local and
federal standards.

MAJOR CUSTOMER

Approximately 10% in 1994, and 12% in 1993 and 1992, of SBC's
consolidated revenues were from services provided to AT&T.  No other
customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues.

COMPETITION

     Telecommunications

Information relating to competition in the telecommunications industry
is contained in the registrant's annual report to shareowners for 1994
under the heading "Competition" on page 28, and is incorporated herein
by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

     International

Most major and several minor cable operators in the United Kingdom
have begun to offer both cable television and local exchange services
in selected franchise service areas.  The United Kingdom's domestic
telephone companies are restricted from offering video entertainment
over their networks until 1998.  In addition to cable, viewers in the
United Kingdom may select television programming from four television
stations which are broadcast free, or may subscribe to programming
directly from satellite broadcasting services.

     Directory Advertising and Publishing

Yellow Pages faces competition from numerous directory publishing
companies as well as other advertising media.  There are 51 other
directory publishers in the five-state area producing yellow page
directories.

     Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

Telecom faces significant price competition from numerous companies in
both its Business Systems division and Original Equipment division.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The majority of company-sponsored basic and applied research
activities is conducted at Bell Communications Research, Inc.
(Bellcore).  The Telephone Company owns a one-seventh interest in
Bellcore along with the other six RHCs.  Bellcore is the central point
of contact for coordinating the Federal government's
telecommunications requirements on national security and emergency
preparedness.

Basic and applied research is also conducted at Southwestern Bell
Technology Resources, Inc. (TRI), a subsidiary of SBC.  TRI provides
technology planning and assessment services to SBC and its
subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1994, SBC and its subsidiaries employed 58,750
persons.  Approximately 66% of the employees are represented by the
Communications Workers of America (CWA).  Effective in August 1992, a
three-year contract was negotiated between the CWA and the Telephone
Company.  Effective in December 1992, a three-year contract was
negotiated between the CWA and Yellow Pages.  These contracts will be
subject to renegotiation in mid 1995.  Effective February 1994, a
three-year contract was negotiated between the CWA and Telecom.  The
CWA also represents a minor number of employees in other subsidiaries
of SBC.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The properties of SBC do not lend themselves to description by
character and location of principal units.  At December 31, 1994, 91%
of the property, plant and equipment of SBC was owned by the Telephone
Company.  Network access lines represented 45% of the Telephone
Company's investment in telephone plant; central office equipment
represented 37%; land and buildings represented 10%; other
miscellaneous property, comprised principally of furniture and office
equipment and vehicles and other work equipment, represented 6%; and
information origination/termination equipment represented 2%.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Not applicable.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of shareowners in the fourth quarter
of the fiscal year covered by this report.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT

      Name       Age               Position                Held
                                                           Since
                                                             
Edward E.        53   Chairman and Chief Executive         1-90
Whitacre Jr.          Officer                                
                      
James R. Adams   55   Group President                      7-92
                                                             
Royce S.         56   President and Chief Executive        4-94
Caldwell              Officer of Southwestern Bell 
                      Telephone Company
                      
Cassandra C.     50   Senior Vice President - Human        5-94
Carr                  Resources                              
                                                             
Robert A.        51   Senior Vice President - Corporate    5-94
Dickemper             Communications                         
                                                             
William E.       56   Senior Executive Vice President -    7-93
Dreyer                External Affairs                       
                                                             
James D. Ellis   51   Senior Executive Vice President      3-89
                      and General Counsel                    
                                                             
Charles E.       58   Group President                      10-90
Foster                                                       
                                                             
James S. Kahan   47   Senior Vice President - Strategic    7-93
                      Planning and Corporate Development     
                                                             
Donald E.        54   Senior Vice President, Treasurer     7-93
Kiernan                 and Chief Financial Officer


All of the above Executive Officers have held high-level managerial
positions with SBC or its subsidiaries for more than the past five
years, except for Messrs. Kiernan and Kahan who have held such high-
level managerial positions since May 1990 and January 1992,
respectively.  Prior to their appointments as Executive Officers,
Mr. Kiernan was a partner with Ernst & Young and Mr. Kahan held
responsible managerial positions with SBC.  Executive Officers are not
appointed to a fixed term of office but hold office until their
successors are elected and qualified.

                                PART II

ITEMS 5 THROUGH 8.

The information required by these Items is included in the "1994
Financial Highlights - Number of shareowners" line on page 1, page 22
through page 45 and in the "Stock Data" section on the back cover of
the registrant's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1994.  Such information is appended hereto as
Exhibit 13 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No changes in accountants or disagreements with accountants on any
accounting or financial disclosure matters occurred during the period
covered by this report.



                               PART III

ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.

Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K is furnished in a separate disclosure in Part I of this
report since the registrant did not furnish such information in its
definitive proxy statement prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A.

The other information required by these Items is included in the
registrant's definitive proxy statement, dated March 14, 1995, from
page 4 through page 7 and beginning with the last paragraph on page 13
through page 20 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(3).

                            PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                     Page
 (1) Report of Independent Auditors                     *
      Financial Statements covered by Report 
      of Independent Auditors:
      
       Consolidated Statements of Income                *
       Consolidated Balance Sheets                      *
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows            *
       Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity   *
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       *


    * Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of
    the registrant's annual report to shareowners for the fiscal year
    ended December 31, 1994.  (See Part II.)


Page
 (2)    Financial Statement Schedules Covered by Report of Independent
        Auditors:
       
       VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        


   Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have
   been omitted because the required information is contained in the
   financial statements and notes thereto, or because such schedules
   are not required or applicable.

   (3) Exhibits:

   Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein
   by reference as exhibits hereto.

        Exhibit
        Number

          3-a  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, of Southwestern
          Bell Corporation, dated June 6, 1988.  (Exhibit 3-a to Form
          8-A/A, dated June 22, 1994, File 1-8610.)

          3-b  Bylaws of Southwestern Bell Corporation, dated June 28,
          1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-Q for the second quarter 1991,
          File 1-8610.)

          4-a  Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no
          instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term
          debt of the registrant or any of its consolidated
          subsidiaries is filed herewith.  Pursuant to this
          regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy
          of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.

          4-b  Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
          Southwestern Bell Corporation and Southwestern Bell Capital
          Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration Statement
          No. 33-11669.)

          4-c  Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27, 1989,
          between Southwestern Bell Corporation and American
          Transtech, Inc., the Rights Agent, which includes as
          Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights Certificate.
          (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989, File 1-
          8610.)

          4-d  Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
          1992, between Southwestern Bell Corporation, American
          Transtech, Inc., and The Bank of New York, the successor
          Rights Agent, which includes the Form of Rights Certificate
          as an attachment identified as Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to
          Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992, File 1-8610.)

          4-e  Form of Rights Certificate (included in the attachment to
          the Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as Exhibit
          B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992, File 1-
          8610.)

          4-f  Second Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated June 15,
          1994, between Southwestern Bell Corporation and The Bank of
          New York, as successor Rights Agent.  (Exhibit 4-e to
          Form 8-A/A, dated June  22, 1994, File 1-8610.)

          10-a  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Short
          Term Incentive Plan, revised January 1, 1991.  (Exhibit 10-a
          to Form 10-K for 1990, File 1-8610.)

          10-b  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
          Term Incentive Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993.
          (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992, File 1-8610.)

          10-c  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Survivor
          Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-
          8610.)

          10-d  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, revised effective
          January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K for 1992,
          File 1-8610.)

          10-e  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Deferred
          Compensation Plan (effective for Units of Participation
          Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988), revised
          July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement
          No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-f  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Deferred
          Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective for Units of Partici
          pation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or
          later), revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.6 to
          Registration Statement No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-g  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
          Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1986,
          File 1-8610.)

          10-h  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to Form 10-K
          for 1986, File 1-8610.)

          10-i  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-h to Form 10-K
          for 1986, File 1-8610.)

          10-j  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Executive Health Plan, effective January 1, 1987.  (Exhibit
          10-i to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

          10-k  Southwestern Bell Corporation Retirement Plan for Non-
          Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for 1985,
          File 1-8610.)

          10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986,
          between Southwestern Bell Corporation and each of its
          directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy
          Statement dated March 18, 1987, File 1-8610.)

          10-m  Form of Southwestern Bell Corporation Change of Control
          Severance Agreements for all Officers of the Corporation and
          certain Officers of the Corporation's subsidiaries.
          (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988, File 18610.)

          10-n  Southwestern Bell Corporation Stock Savings Plan,
          revised effective February 1, 1994. (Appendix A to
          Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994, File 1-
          8610.)

          10-o  Southwestern Bell Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan,
          revised effective December 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.15 to
          Registration Statement No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-p  Southwestern Bell Corporation Key Executive Officer
          Short Term Incentive Plan.  (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy
          Statement dated March 18, 1994, File 1-8610.)

          10-q  Southwestern Bell Corporation Restricted Stock Plan for
          Non-Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10.17 to Registration
          Statement No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-r  Southwestern Bell Corporation Officer Retirement Savings
          Plan.  (Exhibit 10.18 to Registration Statement No. 33-
          54795, File 1-8610.)

          12  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

          13  Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual report
          to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
          Only the information incorporated by reference into this
          Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.

          21  Subsidiaries of Southwestern Bell Corporation.

          23  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

          24  Powers of Attorney.

          27  Financial Data Schedule.

          99-a  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
          Corporation Savings Plan for the year 1994 to be filed under
          Form 10-K/A.

          99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
          Corporation Savings and Security Plan for the year 1994 to
          be filed under Form 10-K/A.

Southwestern Bell Corporation will furnish to shareowners upon
request, and without charge, a copy of the annual report to
shareowners and the proxy statement, portions of which are
incorporated by reference in the Form 10-K.  Southwestern Bell
Corporation will furnish any other exhibit at cost.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K:

   No report on Form 8-K was filed by the Registrant during the last
   quarter of the year covered by this report.











                           SIGNATURES


   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on the 14th day of March, 1995.

                                SOUTHWESTERN BELL CORPORATION


                                By /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
                                (Donald E. Kiernan
                                Senior Vice President, Treasurer and
                                Chief Financial Officer)

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:
   Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*
   Chairman and
   Chief Executive Officer

Principal Financial and
 Accounting Officer:
   Donald E. Kiernan
   Senior Vice President, Treasurer
   and Chief Financial Officer


                                /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
Directors:                      (Donald E. Kiernan, as attorney-in-fact
                                and on his own behalf as Principal
Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*         Financial Officer and Principal
Clarence C. Barksdale*          Accounting Officer)
James E. Barnes*
Jack S. Blanton*
August A. Busch III*                     March 14, 1995
Ruben R. Cardenas*
Martin K. Eby, Jr.*
Tom C. Frost*
Jess Hay*
B. R. Inman*
Charles F. Knight*
Sybil C. Mobley*
Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.*
Carlos Slim Helu*
Patricia P. Upton *

* by power of attorney


                         EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated by
   reference as exhibits hereto.

        Exhibit
        Number

          3-a  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, of Southwestern
          Bell Corporation, dated June 6, 1988.  (Exhibit 3-a to
          Form 8-A/A, dated June 22, 1994, File 1-8610.)

          3-b  Bylaws of Southwestern Bell Corporation, dated June 28,
          1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-Q for the second quarter 1991,
          File 1-8610.)

          4-a  Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A), no
          instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term
          debt of the registrant or any of its consolidated
          subsidiaries is filed herewith.  Pursuant to this
          regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy
          of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.

          4-b  Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
          Southwestern Bell Corporation and Southwestern Bell Capital
          Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration Statement
          No. 33-11669.)

          4-c  Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27, 1989,
          between Southwestern Bell Corporation and American
          Transtech, Inc., the Rights Agent, which includes as
          Exhibit B thereto the form of Rights Certificate.
          (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A dated February 9, 1989, File 1-
          8610.)

          4-d  Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
          1992, between Southwestern Bell Corporation, American
          Transtech, Inc., and The Bank of New York, the successor
          Rights Agent, which includes the Form of Rights Certificate
          as an attachment identified as Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to
          Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992, File 1-8610.)

          4-e  Form of Rights Certificate (included in the attachment to
          the Amendment of Rights Agreement and identified as Exhibit
          B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K, dated August 7, 1992, File 1-
          8610.)

          4-f  Second Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated June 15,
          1994, between Southwestern Bell Corporation and The Bank of
          New York, as successor Rights Agent.  (Exhibit 4-e to
          Form 8-A/A, dated June 22, 1994, file 1-8610.)

          10-a  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Short
          Term Incentive Plan, revised January 1, 1991.  (Exhibit 10-a
          to Form 10-K for 1990, File 1-8610.)

          10-b  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
          Term Incentive Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993.
          (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K for 1992, File 1-8610.)

          10-c  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Survivor
          Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit 10-c to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-
          8610.)

          10-d  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, revised effective
          January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d to Form 10-K for 1992,
          File 1-8610.)

          10-e  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Deferred
          Compensation Plan (effective for Units of Participation
          Having a Unit Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988), revised
          July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement
          No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-f  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Deferred
          Compensation Plan of 1988 (effective for Units of Partici
          pation Having a Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or
          later), revised July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.6 to
          Registration Statement No 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-g  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management Long
          Term Disability Plan.  (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1986,
          File 1-8610.)

          10-h  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Incentive Award Deferral Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to Form 10-K
          for 1986, File 1-8610.)

          10-i  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Financial Counseling Program.  (Exhibit 10-h to Form 10-K
          for 1986, File 1-8610.)

          10-j  Southwestern Bell Corporation Senior Management
          Executive Health Plan, effective January 1, 1987.  (Exhibit
          10-i to Form 10-K for 1986, File 1-8610.)

          10-k  Southwestern Bell Corporation Retirement Plan for Non-
          Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for 1985,
          File 1-8610.)

          10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1, 1986,
          between Southwestern Bell Corporation and each of its
          directors and officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy
          Statement dated March 18, 1987, File 1-8610.)

          10-m  Form of Southwestern Bell Corporation Change of Control
          Severance Agreements for all Officers of the Corporation and
          certain Officers of the Corporation's subsidiaries.
          (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988, File 1-8610.)

          10-n  Southwestern Bell Corporation Stock Savings Plan,
          revised effective February 1, 1994. (Appendix A to
          Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1994, File 1-
          8610.)

          10-o  Southwestern Bell Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan,
          revised effective December 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.15 to
          Registration Statement No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-p  Southwestern Bell Corporation Key Executive Officer
          Short Term Incentive Plan.  (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy
          Statement dated March 18, 1994, File 1-8610.)

          10-q  Southwestern Bell Corporation Restricted Stock Plan for
          Non-Employee Directors.  (Exhibit 10.17 to Registration
          Statement No. 33-54795, File 1-8610.)

          10-r  Southwestern Bell Corporation Officer Retirement Savings
          Plan.  (Exhibit 10.18 to Registration Statement No. 33-
          54795, File 1-8610.)

          12  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

          13  Portions of Southwestern Bell Corporation's annual report
          to shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
          Only the information incorporated by reference into this
          Form 10-K is included in this exhibit.

          21  Subsidiaries of Southwestern Bell Corporation.

          23  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

          24  Powers of Attorney.

          27  Financial Data Schedule.

          99-a  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
          Corporation Savings Plan for the year 1994 to be filed under
          Form 10-K/A.

          99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Southwestern Bell
          Corporation Savings and Security Plan for the year 1994 to
          be filed under Form 10-K/A.




