
10-K405






                                
                                
                                
                         FORM 10-K

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)
X        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (Fee Required)

            For fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                              OR

___    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (No Fee Required)

         For the transition period from               to
                                
                Commission File Number:  1-8610

                     SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.

      Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
        I.R.S. Employer Identification Number 43-1301883

         175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
                 Telephone Number 210-821-4105


  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             Name of each exchange
          Title  of  each  class             on  which registered

    Common   Shares                          New   York, Chicago and
    (Par  Value  $1.00 Per Share)            Pacific Stock Exchanges

    $75  Million 8.48% Medium-Term Notes     New York Stock Exchange
    Series D, Due December 8, 1999, of
    Southwestern Bell Capital Corporation

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None.

Indicate  by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed  all
reports  required  to be filed by Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
(or  for such shorter period that the registrant was required  to
file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes   X     No _____

Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant  to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in  definitive  proxy or information statements  incorporated  by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
Form 10-K.   ( X )

Based on composite closing sales price on February 29, 1996,  the
aggregate market value of all voting stock held by non-affiliates
was $33,393,200,000.

As  of February 29, 1996, 609,127,657 shares of Common Stock were
outstanding.

              DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)       Portions of SBC Communications Inc.'s Annual Report  to
Shareowners  for  the  fiscal year ended  December  31,      1995
(Parts I and II).

(2)        Portions of SBC Communications Inc.'s Notice  of  1996
Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement dated March 12, 1996 (Parts III and IV).



                       

                             PART I

Item                                                       Page
                                                          
1. Business                                                 
2. Properties                                              
3. Legal Proceedings                                       
4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     


 Executive Officers of the Registrant                      


                            PART II

5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
     Stockholder Matters                                   
6. Selected Financial and Operating Data                   
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
     and Results of Operations                             
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data             
9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
     and Financial Disclosure                              


                            PART III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant         
11.  Executive Compensation         
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
     Management                                            
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions         


                            PART IV

14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on 
     Form 8-K  


                             PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) is a holding company whose
subsidiaries and affiliates operate predominantly in the
communications services industry.  SBC's subsidiaries and
affiliates provide landline and wireless telecommunications
services and equipment, directory advertising, publishing and
cable television services.  Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
(Telephone Company) is SBC's largest subsidiary, providing
telecommunications services in Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Kansas
and Arkansas (five-state area).  SBC has its principal executive
offices at 175 E. Houston, San Antonio, Texas 78205-2233
(telephone number 210-821-4105).

At the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareowners, a change in the
corporate name from Southwestern Bell Corporation to SBC
Communications Inc. was approved by shareowners.  This change was
made in order to better reflect SBC's position as a diversified
global communications company.

SBC was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in
1983 by AT&T Corp. (AT&T) as one of seven regional holding 
companies (RHCs) formed to hold AT&T's local 
telephone companies.  AT&T divested SBC by means of a
spin-off of stock to its shareowners on January 1, 1984
(divestiture).  The divestiture was made pursuant 
to a consent decree, referred to
as the Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ), issued by the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia (District
Court).



FEDERAL LEGISLATION AND THE MFJ

On February 8, 1996, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the Act)
was enacted into law.  The Act is intended to address various
aspects of competition within, and regulation of, the
telecommunications industry.  The Act provides that all post-
enactment conduct or activities which were subject to the MFJ are
now subject to the provisions of the Act.  Among other things,
the Act also defines conditions SBC must comply with before being
permitted to offer interLATA long-distance service and
establishes certain terms and conditions intended to promote
competition for the Telephone Company's local exchange services.

Additional information relating to the Act is contained in SBC's
Annual Report to Shareowners for 1995 under the heading
"Competition" on page 27, and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

The MFJ, as originally approved by the District Court in 1982,
had placed restrictions, known as the "line of business"
restrictions, on the types of businesses in which SBC could
engage.  SBC could obtain relief from these restrictions upon a
showing that there was no substantial possibility that it could
use its monopoly power to impede competition in the specific
market it sought to enter (the Waiver Standard).

As a result of waiver proceedings before the District Court since
divestiture, the MFJ's initial line of business restrictions
against engaging in nontelecommunications businesses, providing
intraLATA information services, and providing telecommunications
products had all been removed.  SBC was also authorized to engage
in the restricted lines of business outside the United States,
subject to certain conditions designed to prevent an impact on
United States markets.  However, SBC was prohibited from
providing interexchange telecommunications services and
manufacturing telecommunications products and customer premises
equipment (CPE).

Interexchange telecommunications refers to telecommunications
between Local Access and Transport Areas (LATAs) which were
created during the divestiture process, and are generally
centered on a standard metropolitan statistical area or other
identifiable community of interest.  The District Court
interpreted manufacturing to include design and development
activities, as well as actual equipment fabrication.

Through 1995, SBC had submitted various requests to the District
Court, seeking to remove or modify the remaining restrictions.
The passage of the Act potentially supersedes many of these and
other court actions filed by SBC or to which SBC was a party.
Among these actions are a petition requesting the MFJ be vacated,
a court order establishing conditions under which SBC could offer
interLATA long-distance over its wireless network and a suit
challenging the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC)
intention to require telephone companies to file applications
with the FCC before they acquire or operate cable television
systems in their telephone service areas.


BUSINESS OPERATIONS

In July 1995, SBC announced a strategic realignment which will
position the company to be a single-source provider of
telecommunications services.  All of SBC's operations within the
five-state area will report to one management group, while
international operations and domestic operations outside the five-
state area will report to a separate management group.  Services
and products are provided through several subsidiaries, which
include: the Telephone Company, Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems,
Inc. (Mobile Systems), SBC International, Inc.
(SBC International), Southwestern Bell Yellow Pages, Inc. (Yellow
Pages), Southwestern Bell Telecommunications, Inc. (Telecom) and
SBC Media Ventures, Inc. (Media Ventures).  These services and
products (which are described more fully below) include landline
and wireless telecommunications services, sales of advertising for
and publication of yellow pages and white pages directories, sales
of customer premises, private business exchange (PBX) and wireless
equipment, and cable television services.  Wireless
telecommunications services are provided by Mobile Systems.
Landline telecommunications services are provided in the five-
state area by the Telephone Company.  During 1996, the operations
of Telecom will be merged into the operations of the Telephone
Company.

SBC's revenues are categorized for financial reporting purposes
as local service (substantially all of which were provided by the
Telephone Company and Mobile Systems), network access (provided
by the Telephone Company), long-distance service (substantially
all of which were provided by the Telephone Company), directory
advertising (principally provided by Yellow Pages) and other
(including equipment sales at Mobile Systems and Telecom,
nonregulated products and services provided by the Telephone
Company, billing and collection services for interexchange
carriers provided by the Telephone Company, and cable television
services provided by SBC International and Media Ventures).  With
the passage of the Act, Mobile Systems began offering interLATA
and intraLATA long-distance services on February 9, 1996.

The following table sets forth for SBC the percentage of total
operating revenues by any class of service which accounted for
10% or more of total operating revenues in any of the last three
fiscal years.

                                      Percentage of Total
                                      Operating Revenues

                                          1995    1994     1993
Local service:                                                 
     Landline                              34%     34%      36%
     Wireless                              18%     15%      12%
Network access                             24%     24%      25%
     
     
     Telecommunications

Telecommunications services include local, long-distance and
network access services.  Local services involve the transport of
landline and wireless telecommunications traffic between
telephones and other CPE located within the same local service
calling area.  Local services include:  basic local exchange
service, extended area service, dedicated private line services
for voice and special services, directory assistance and various
custom calling services.  Until the passage of the Act, SBC's long-
distance services involved the transport of telecommunications
traffic between local calling areas within the same LATA
(intraLATA), except for certain wireless service areas which
cover more than one LATA, for which SBC had obtained MFJ waivers.
In addition to these services, during 1996 SBC will 
provide both interLATA and intraLATA long-distance 
services over its wireless networks, as
well as interLATA long-distance services in selected areas
outside the five-state area.  Long-distance services also include
other services such as Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS
or 800 services) and other special services.  Network access
services connect a subscriber's telephone or other equipment to
the transmission facilities of other carriers which provide long-
distance (principally interLATA) and other communications
services.  Network access services are either switched, which use
a switched communications path between the carrier and the
customer, or special, which use a direct nonswitched path.

The Telephone Company is SBC's largest subsidiary, providing
approximately 71% of SBC's operating revenues in 1995.  The
Telephone Company provides its services over approximately
9.5 million residential and 4.5 million business access lines in
the five-state area.  During 1995, nearly two-thirds of the
Telephone Company's access line growth occurred in Texas.

During 1995, the Telephone Company continued to expand its
offering of optional services including: Caller ID, a feature
which displays the telephone number of the person calling and the
caller's name in certain markets; Call Return, a feature that
redials the number of the last incoming call; and Call Blocker, a
feature which allows customers to automatically reject calls from
a designated list of telephone numbers.

The FCC has certain rules that impact the manner in which the
Telephone Company may offer network services for enhanced service
providers.  Enhanced services are services other than basic
transmission services.  Under these rules, the Telephone Company
is permitted to offer enhanced services either on its own or
jointly with its affiliates, subject to nonstructural safeguards
designed to permit the Telephone Company's competitors to acquire
needed network services on an efficient, non-discriminatory basis
and to reduce the risk of cross-subsidization.  These safeguards
include accounting and reporting procedures and Open Network
Architecture (ONA) requirements, which represent the Telephone
Company's plan to provide equal access to its network to all
enhanced service providers.  Enhanced services are deregulated at
the federal level, and none of the state commissions to which the
Telephone Company is subject has asserted jurisdiction over
intrastate enhanced services.  The nonstructural safeguards are
currently being reviewed by the FCC as a result of an
October 1994 judicial remand which ruled that the FCC had not
adequately explained how ONA would prevent discrimination against
competitors.  While the outcome cannot be predicted, it is
anticipated that the FCC will reaffirm the nonstructural
safeguards.

Southwestern Bell Messaging Services, Inc., another SBC
subsidiary, provides voice messaging services under the
registered trademark CallNotes to residential and small business
customers.  Telecom provides voice messaging services to medium
and large business customers.

At the end of 1995, Mobile Systems provided wireless services to
3,659,000 customers, or 9 out of every 100 residents living in
its service areas.  These services are provided in
35 metropolitan markets, including 5 of the nation's top
15 metropolitan areas, as follows:  Washington, D.C.; Chicago,
Illinois; Boston, Massachusetts; St. Louis, Missouri; and Dallas-
Fort Worth, Texas.  Mobile Systems (or partnerships in which it
has an ownership interest) is licensed to provide service in
28 rural service areas and is currently providing service in all
of these markets.  Each rural service area is contiguous to an
existing metropolitan service area or another rural service area
operated by Mobile Systems, which allows for the expansion of
service in a way that may add value to customers' service. Mobile
Systems operates in areas outside the five-state area under the
name of Cellular One by means of licenses from Cellular One
Group, a partnership among affiliates of Mobile Systems, AT&T
Wireless Services and Vanguard Cellular Systems, Inc.  These
areas include metropolitan service areas, such as
Washington, D.C.; Chicago, Illinois; and Boston, Massachusetts;
and rural service areas in Illinois, Massachusetts, New York,
Virginia and West Virginia.

In October 1994, SBC announced the formation of a long-term
marketing alliance between Mobile Systems and GTE in Texas.  This
alliance has enabled both Mobile Systems and GTE to begin
offering wireless service in each other's Texas wireless markets,
using the host company's wireless system.  As a result, Mobile
Systems now provides wireless service in Houston, Austin and
Beaumont and has the right, under this alliance, to market
wireless service in a number of additional markets including El
Paso and Galveston.

Mobile Systems began providing commercial digital service in
Chicago in July 1993.  Digital service improves sound quality,
provides a greater degree of privacy on individual calls,
increases call-handling capacity of the networks and reduces
exposure to billing fraud.  Mobile Systems also began providing
commercial digital service in St. Louis in September 1993, in
Dallas-Fort Worth in January 1994, and in Washington,
D.C.-Baltimore in March 1994.  Mobile Systems is evaluating other
areas for digital service.

Mobile Systems markets wireless communications equipment in each
of its service areas to customers entering into wireless service
contracts.

In December 1994, SBC acquired the domestic wireless business of
Associated Communications Corporation, including wireless systems
in Buffalo, Rochester, Albany and Glens Falls, New York, which
are adjacent to other SBC wireless systems in Syracuse, Utica and
Ithaca, New York.

In March 1995, SBC acquired United States Cellular Corporation's
wireless system that operates in the Watertown, New York area.
In December 1995, SBC obtained a controlling interest in a
wireless property serving the Laredo, Texas, area, as a part of a
joint venture with PriCellular Corporation.  SBC contributed two
wireless properties serving Central Illinois, known as RSAs 4 and
6, to the joint venture.  Combined with SBC's other markets, this
joint venture permits SBC to now serve the entire South Texas
region.

In 1993, the FCC adopted an order allocating radio spectrum and
outlining the development of licenses for new personal
communications services (PCS).  PCS utilizes wireless
telecommunications digital technology at a higher frequency radio
spectrum than cellular.  Like cellular, it is designed to permit
access to a variety of communications services regardless of
subscriber location.  In a FCC auction, which concluded in March
1995, PCS licenses were awarded in 51 major markets.  SBC
acquired PCS licenses in the major trading areas of Memphis,
Tennessee; Little Rock, Arkansas; and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  SBC is
currently evaluating strategies to build out PCS in these areas.

     International

A consortium consisting of SBC International, together with a
subsidiary of France Telecom and a group of Mexican investors led
by Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V., has voting control of Telefonos de
Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Telmex), Mexico's national
telecommunications company, through its ownership of all of
Telmex's Class AA shares.  The Mexican investors have voting
control of the consortium.  The Class AA shares owned by
SBC International represent approximately 5% of Telmex's total
equity capitalization.  SBC International's total interest in
Telmex, including ownership of Class L shares with limited voting
rights, represents approximately 10% of Telmex's total equity
capitalization.  Telmex provides complete landline and wireless
telecommunications services within Mexico.  At the end of 1995,
Telmex had 8.8 million access lines in service and provided
cellular service to more than 399,000 subscribers.  In June 1995,
Telmex acquired a 49% stake of Grupo Televisa's cable television
subsidiary, Cablevision.

In October 1994, SBC International formed a strategic alliance
with Compagnie Generale des Eaux (CGE), a French diversified
public company.  Through this alliance, SBC International
acquired an indirect 10% ownership of Societe Francaise du
Radiotelephone S.A. (SFR), a nationwide cellular company in
France, and minority ownership interests in other communications
businesses controlled by CGE, and CGE obtained an effective
10% interest in SBC's wireless operations in
Washington, D.C.-Baltimore and surrounding rural markets.  SBC
and CGE both made contributions to the alliance.  SBC's effective
contribution was $375.9 million.  At the end of 1995, SFR
provided cellular service to approximately 443,000 subscribers.

In February 1995, SBC International purchased 40% of VTR S.A.
(VTR), a privately owned telecommunications holding company in
Chile.  VTR is 51% owned by Grupo Luksic, a large Chilean
conglomerate.  Through its subsidiaries, VTR provides local,
long-distance, wireless and cable television services in Chile.
At the end of 1995, local services were provided over
approximately 74,000 access lines, wireless services were
provided to more than 30,000 subscribers and cable television
services were provided to more than 178,000 subscribers.

In October 1995, SBC International combined its United Kingdom
cable television operations, which included Midlands Cable
Communications and Northwest Cable Communications, with those of
TeleWest Communications, P.L.C., a publicly held joint venture
between Telecommunications, Inc. and U S WEST, Inc.  The
resulting entity, TeleWest P.L.C., is the largest cable
television operator in the United Kingdom and also provides local
exchange services.  SBC International owns approximately 15% of
the new entity.

SBC International also holds a minority interest in Golden
Channels, a cable television provider in Israel.  Golden Channels
holds franchises in areas containing 404,000 potential
households.  At the end of 1995, Golden Channels served
approximately 249,000 households, a penetration rate of
approximately 62%.

In Israel and Australia, SBC International has interests in
companies involved in the publication of yellow pages directories
and marketing directory software.

SBC International also has wireless interests in South Korea and
South Africa.

     Directory Advertising and Publishing

Yellow Pages publishes more than 43 million copies of
approximately 350 directories within the five-state area.  The
ten largest revenue-producing yellow pages directories are
currently published in the second half of SBC's fiscal year.
Directory advertising revenues and expenses associated with
yellow pages directories are recognized in the month the related
directory is published.  Since 1995, SBC's yellow and white pages
directories have been printed by R.R. Donnelley & Sons.

During 1995, SBC agreed to sell its publishing contracts for GTE
Corporation's service areas to GTE Directories.  Directories
covered by these contracts were previously published by
Associated Directory Services, a subsidiary of SBC.
     
     Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

During 1996, the operations of Telecom will be merged with the
operations of the Telephone Company.  Telecom markets business
and residential communications equipment.  Telecom's offerings
range from single-line and cordless telephones to sophisticated
digital PBX systems.  PBX is a private telephone switching
system, usually located on a customer's premises, which provides
intra-premise telephone services as well as access to the public
switched network.  Telecom, through an exclusive, long-term
distribution agreement with Conair Corporation, also markets a
full line of residential telephones to retailers nationwide,
under the Southwestern Bell Freedom Phone name.

     Domestic Video Services

Media Ventures owns two cable television systems serving the
suburban Washington, D.C. area.  Cable TV Montgomery serves
Montgomery County, Maryland, and Cable TV Arlington serves
Arlington County, Virginia.  At the end of 1995, these systems
passed 420,000 homes and served 258,000 customers.  In September
1995, Media Ventures and affiliates of Prime Cable (Prime) formed
a partnership called SBC Media Ventures, L.P. (the Partnership)
to own and operate Cable TV Montgomery and Cable TV Arlington.
Media Ventures will be general partner and retain an approximate
95% ownership interest in the Partnership.  Prime will contribute
$20 million to the Partnership and will manage the cable systems.
Regulatory approval of the transaction is pending.

In December 1995, SBC began offering video services to 1,800
customers in a consumer trial in Richardson, Texas.  The advanced
broadband network in Richardson is capable of delivering a
variety of video and communications services.  SBC has a
franchise to eventually provide 31,000 homes with access to both
video and telephone services over the network.

During 1995, SBC became an equal partner in a venture, with
Ameritech Corporation, BellSouth Corporation, GTE, and The Walt
Disney Company, to design, market and deliver video programming
and interactive services.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

In the five-state area, the Telephone Company is subject to
regulation by state commissions which have the power to regulate,
in varying degrees, intrastate rates and services, including
local, long-distance and network access (both intraLATA and
interLATA access within the state) services.  The Telephone
Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with
respect to foreign and interstate rates and services, including
interstate access charges.  Access charges are designed to
compensate the Telephone Company for the use of its facilities
for the origination or termination of long-distance and other
communications by other carriers.  There are currently no access
charges for access to the Internet.

Additional information relating to federal and state regulation
of the Telephone Company is contained in SBC's Annual Report to
Shareowners for 1995 under the heading "Regulatory Environment"
on page 24, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to
General Instruction G(2).

SBC's cable systems are subject to federal and local regulation,
including regulation by the FCC and local franchising
authorities, concerning rates, service and programming access.

IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

The FCC authorizes the licensing of only two cellular carriers in
each geographic market.  These cellular licenses have a standard
duration of ten years and are renewable upon application and a
showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards.
Renewal licenses were received for Chicago, Illinois; San
Antonio, Texas; Boston, Massachusetts; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
and Wichita, Kansas in May 1995.  Renewal applications were filed
in the following markets during September 1995:  Gary, Indiana;
Worcester, Massachusetts; Buffalo, New York; Syracuse, New York;
Rochester, New York; and Corpus Christi, Texas.  Renewal licenses
are expected to be awarded during 1996.  Renewal applications
will be filed in the following markets during September 1996:
Lawrence, Kansas; Topeka, Kansas; St. Joseph, Missouri; Amarillo,
Texas; Lubbock, Texas; Sherman-Denison, Texas; Albany, New York;
and Utica-Rome, New York.

Under the auction process of the FCC order outlining the
development of PCS, licenses with durations of ten years were
awarded in 51 major markets.  The licenses acquired by SBC in
Memphis, Tennessee; Little Rock, Arkansas; and Tulsa, Oklahoma
each expire in June 2005 and are renewable upon application and a
showing of compliance with FCC use and conduct standards.

Cable television systems generally are operated under
nonexclusive permits or "franchises" granted by local
governmental authorities.  SBC operates its Washington, D.C. area
cable systems under franchises granted by Montgomery County,
Maryland, which expires in May 1998; Arlington County, Virginia,
which expires in October 2000; and the City of Gaithersburg,
Maryland, which expires in November 2001.  During 1995, SBC
received a franchise to operate a cable system in Richardson,
Texas, which expires in September 2013.  Each franchise is
renewable upon a showing of compliance with established local and
federal standards.

MAJOR CUSTOMER

No customer accounted for more than 10% of SBC's consolidated
revenues in 1995.  Approximately 10% in 1994 and 11% in 1993 of
SBC's consolidated revenues were from services provided to AT&T.
No other customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated
revenues in 1994 and 1993.

COMPETITION

     Telecommunications

Information relating to competition in the telecommunications
industry is contained in SBC's Annual Report to Shareowners for
1995 under the heading "Competition" on page 27, and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2).

     International

Information relating to international competition is contained in
SBC's Annual Report to Shareowners for 1995 under the heading
"Competition" on page 27, and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

     Directory Advertising and Publishing

Yellow Pages faces competition from numerous directory publishing
companies as well as other advertising media.  There are over 50
other directory publishers in the five-state area producing
yellow page directories.

     Customer Premises Equipment and Other Equipment Sales

Telecom faces significant price competition from numerous
companies in marketing its telecommunications products.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The majority of company-sponsored basic and applied research is
conducted at Bell Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore).  The
Telephone Company owns a one-seventh interest in Bellcore along
with the other six RHCs.  In April 1995, SBC and the other RHCs
announced their intention to pursue the disposition of their
interests in Bellcore.  A disposition would be subject to
obtaining satisfactory financial and other terms and all
necessary approvals.  If a disposition were to occur, the RHCs
would retain the portion of Bellcore that coordinates the Federal
government's telecommunications requirements for national
security and emergency preparedness.

Basic and applied research is also conducted at Southwestern Bell
Technology Resources, Inc. (TRI), a subsidiary of SBC.  TRI
provides technology planning and evaluation services to SBC and
its subsidiaries.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1995, SBC and its subsidiaries employed 59,300
persons.  Approximately 66% of the employees are represented by
the Communications Workers of America (CWA).  A three-year
contract was negotiated between the CWA and the Telephone
Company, which became effective in August 1995.  A three-year
contract was negotiated between the CWA and Yellow Pages, which
became effective in December 1995.  A three-year contract was
negotiated between the CWA and Telecom, which became effective in
February 1994.  The CWA also represents a minor number of
employees in other subsidiaries of SBC.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The properties of SBC do not lend themselves to description by
character and location of principal
units.  At December 31, 1995, 91% of the property, plant and
equipment of SBC was owned by the Telephone Company.  Network
access lines represented 45% of the Telephone Company's
investment in telephone plant; central office equipment
represented 37%; land and buildings represented 10%; other
miscellaneous property, comprised principally of furniture and
office equipment and vehicles and other work equipment,
represented 6%; and information origination/termination equipment
represented 2%.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Seven class action lawsuits are now pending against the Telephone
Company in state and federal courts in Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma
and Kansas involving the provision by the Telephone Company of
maintenance and trouble diagnosis services covering standard
telephone inside wire located on the customer's premises.  The
actions allege that the Telephone Company's sales practices in
connection with these services violated antitrust, fraud and/or
deceptive trade practices statutes and seek unspecified damages
together with punitive damages and attorney's fees.  The
Telephone Company believes it has several meritorious defenses to
these claims and is vigorously contesting the allegations.
Although the outcomes of these cases are uncertain, management
believes that this litigation will not have a material adverse
impact on SBC's results of operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of shareowners in the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.


           EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      Name       Age   Position                            Held
                                                           Since
                                                             
Edward E.         54  Chairman and Chief Executive         1-90
Whitacre Jr.          Officer                                
                                                             
Royce S.          57  President - Southwestern Bell        7-95
Caldwell              Operations                             
                                                             
Cassandra C.      51  Senior Vice President - Human        5-94
Carr                  Resources                              
                                                             
William E.        58  Senior Executive Vice President -    7-93
Dreyer                External Affairs                       
                                                             
James D. Ellis    52  Senior Executive Vice President      3-89
                      and General Counsel                    
                                                             
Charles E.        59  President - SBC Operations           7-95
Foster                                                       
                                                             
James S. Kahan    48  Senior Vice President - Corporate    7-93
                      Development                            
                                                             
Donald E.         55  Senior Vice President, Treasurer     7-93
Kiernan               and Chief Financial Officer
                      
                                                             
John T. Stupka    46  Senior Vice President - Strategic    7-95
                      Planning


All of the above executive officers have held high-level
managerial positions with SBC or its subsidiaries for more than
the past five years, except for Mr. Kahan who has held a high-
level managerial position since January 1992.  Prior to his
appointment as an executive officer, Mr. Kahan held responsible
managerial positions with SBC.  Executive officers are not
appointed to a fixed term of office but hold office until their
successors are elected and qualified.

                             PART II

ITEMS 5 THROUGH 8.

The number of shareowners of record as of December 31, 1995 and
1994 were 840,378 and 928,670, respectively.  Other information
required by Items 5 through 8 is included on page 18 through page
45 and in the "Stock Trading Information" section on the back
cover of the registrant's annual report to shareowners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.  Such information is
appended hereto as Exhibit 13 and is incorporated herein by
reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No changes in accountants or disagreements with accountants on
any accounting or financial disclosure matters occurred during
the period covered by this report.



                            PART III

ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.

Information regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K is furnished in a separate disclosure in Part I of
this report since the registrant did not furnish such information
in its definitive proxy statement prepared in accordance with
Schedule 14A.

The other information required by these Items is included in the
registrant's definitive proxy statement, dated March 12, 1996,
from page 4 through page 7 and beginning with the "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" section on
page 12 through page 19 and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

                            PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as a part of the report:
                                                     Page
                                                       
   (1) Report of Independent Auditors                   *
      Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent
       Auditors:
       Consolidated Statements of Income                *
       Consolidated Balance Sheets                      *
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows            *
       Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity   *
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       *


    * Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate
    portions of the registrant's annual report to shareowners
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.  (See Part II.)

                                                           Page
                                                       
   (2) Financial Statement Schedules Covered by Report of
        Independent Auditors:
        II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        

   Financial statement schedules other than those listed above
   have been omitted because the required information is
   contained in the financial statements and notes thereto, or
   because such schedules are not required or applicable.

   (3) Exhibits:

   Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated
   herein by reference as exhibits hereto.  Unless otherwise
   indicated, all exhibits so incorporated are from
   File No. 1-8610.

  Exhibit
    Number

    3-a   Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with
          the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 28, 1995.
          (Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q for the first quarter 1995.)

    3-b   Bylaws dated June 28, 1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-
          Q for the second quarter 1991.)

    4-a   Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A),
          no instrument which defines the rights of holders of
          long-term debt of the registrant or any of its
          consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith.  Pursuant
          to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to
          furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
          request.

    4-b   Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
          SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) and Southwestern Bell
          Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
          Statement No. 33-11669.)

    4-c   Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27,
          1989, between SBC and American Transtech, Inc., the
          Rights Agent, which includes as Exhibit B thereto the
          form of Rights Certificate.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A
          dated February 9, 1989.)

    4-d   Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
          1992, among SBC, American Transtech, Inc., and The Bank
          of New York, the successor Rights Agent, which includes
          the Form of Rights Certificate as an attachment
          identified as Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-K,
          dated August 7.)

    4-e   Form of Rights Certificate (included in the
          attachment to the Amendment of Rights Agreement and
          identified as Exhibit B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K,
          dated August 7, 1992.)

    4-f   Second Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated June 15,
          1994, between SBC and The Bank of New York, as
          successor Rights Agent.  (Exhibit 4-e to Form 8-A/A,
          dated June  22, 1994.)

    10-a  Senior Management Short Term Incentive Plan,
          revised January 1, 1991.  (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K
          for 1990.)

    10-b  Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan, revised
          effective January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K
          for 1992.)

    10-c  Senior Management Survivor Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit
          10-c to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-d  Senior Management Supplemental Retirement Income
          Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d
          to Form 10-K for 1992.)

    10-e  Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan
          (effective for Units of Participation Having a Unit
          Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988), revised July 30,
          1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement
          No. 33-54795.)

    10-f  Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of
          1988 (effective for Units of Participation Having a
          Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or later), revised
          July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.6 to Registration Statement
          No. 33-54795.)

    10-g  Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.
          (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-h  Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral
          Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-i  Senior Management Financial Counseling Program.
          (Exhibit 10-h to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-j  Senior Management Executive Health Plan, effective
          January 1, 1987.  (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-k  Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
          (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for 1985.)
          
    10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1,
          1986, between SBC and each of its directors and
          officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy Statement
          dated March 18, 1987.)

    10-m  Form of Change of Control Severance Agreements for
          all Officers and certain Officers of SBC's
          subsidiaries.  (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988.)

    10-n  Stock Savings Plan, revised effective February 1,
          1994. (Appendix A to Definitive Proxy Statement dated
          March 18, 1994.)

    10-o  1992 Stock Option Plan, revised effective
          December 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.15 to Registration
          Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-p  Key Executive Officer Short Term Incentive Plan.
          (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
          18, 1994.)

    10-q  Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
          (Exhibit 10.17 to Registration Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-r  Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10.18 to
          Registration Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-s  1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.  (Appendix to
          Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 1996.)

    12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    13    Portions of SBC's Annual Report to shareowners for
          the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.  Only the
          information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-
          K is included in the exhibit.

    21    Subsidiaries of SBC.

    23    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

    24    Powers of Attorney.

    27    Financial Data Schedule.

    99-a  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings Plan for
          the year 1995 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings and
          Security Plan for the year 1995 to be filed under
          Form 10-K/A.

SBC will furnish to shareowners upon request, and without charge,
a copy of the annual report to shareowners and the proxy
statement, portions of which are incorporated by reference in the
Form 10-K.  SBC will furnish any other exhibit at cost.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K:

   On December 12, 1995, SBC filed a current report on Form 8-K
   reporting on Item 7, Financial Statements and Exhibits.  SBC
   filed exhibits relating to the issuance of a fixed rate
   Medium-Term Note by Southwestern Bell Capital Corporation.




                           
                           
                           SIGNATURES


   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the   12th day of March, 1996.

                                SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC.


                                By  /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
                                (Donald E. Kiernan
                                Senior Vice President, Treasurer and
                                Chief Financial Officer)

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:
   Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*
   Chairman and
   Chief Executive Officer

Principal Financial and
 Accounting Officer:
   Donald E. Kiernan
   Senior Vice President, Treasurer
   and Chief Financial Officer
                                By  /s/ Donald E. Kiernan
Directors:                      (Donald E. Kiernan, 
                                as attorney-in-fact
                                and on his own behalf as Principal
Edward E. Whitacre Jr.*         Financial Officer and Principal
Clarence C. Barksdale*          Accounting Officer)
James E. Barnes*
Jack S. Blanton*
August A. Busch III*                     March  12 , 1996
Ruben R. Cardenas*
Martin K. Eby, Jr.*
Tom C. Frost*
Jess Hay*
B. R. Inman*
Charles F. Knight*
Sybil C. Mobley*
Haskell M. Monroe, Jr.*
Carlos Slim Helu*
Patricia P. Upton *

* by power of attorney
                         
                         
                         
                         EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated
   herein by reference as exhibits hereto.  Unless otherwise
   indicated, all exhibits so incorporated are from
   File No. 1-8610.

  Exhibit
    Number

    3-a   Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with
          the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 28, 1995.
          (Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q for the first quarter 1995.)

    3-b   Bylaws dated June 28, 1991. (Exhibit 3-b to Form 10-
          Q for the second quarter 1991.)

    4-a   Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A),
          no instrument which defines the rights of holders of
          long-term debt of the registrant or any of its
          consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith.  Pursuant
          to this regulation, the registrant hereby agrees to
          furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
          request.

    4-b   Support Agreement dated November 10, 1986, between
          SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) and Southwestern Bell
          Capital Corporation.  (Exhibit 4-b to Registration
          Statement No. 33-11669.)

    4-c   Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of January 27,
          1989, between SBC and American Transtech, Inc., the
          Rights Agent, which includes as Exhibit B thereto the
          form of Rights Certificate.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-A
          dated February 9, 1989.)

    4-d   Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5,
          1992, among SBC, American Transtech, Inc., and The Bank
          of New York, the successor Rights Agent, which includes
          the Form of Rights Certificate as an attachment
          identified as Exhibit B.  (Exhibit 4-a to Form 8-K,
          dated August 7.)

    4-e   Form of Rights Certificate (included in the
          attachment to the Amendment of Rights Agreement and
          identified as Exhibit B.)  (Exhibit 4-b to Form 8-K,
          dated August 7, 1992.)

    4-f   Second Amendment of Rights Agreement, dated June 15,
          1994, between SBC and The Bank of New York, as
          successor Rights Agent.  (Exhibit 4-e to Form 8-A/A,
          dated June  22, 1994.)

    10-a  Senior Management Short Term Incentive Plan,
          revised January 1, 1991.  (Exhibit 10-a to Form 10-K
          for 1990.)

    10-b  Senior Management Long Term Incentive Plan, revised
          effective January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-b to Form 10-K
          for 1992.)

    10-c  Senior Management Survivor Benefit Plan.  (Exhibit
          10-c to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-d  Senior Management Supplemental Retirement Income
          Plan, revised effective January 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10-d
          to Form 10-K for 1992.)

    10-e  Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan
          (effective for Units of Participation Having a Unit
          Start Date Prior to January 1, 1988), revised July 30,
          1993.  (Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement
          No. 33-54795.)

    10-f  Senior Management Deferred Compensation Plan of
          1988 (effective for Units of Participation Having a
          Unit Start Date of January 1, 1988 or later), revised
          July 30, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.6 to Registration Statement
          No. 33-54795.)

    10-g  Senior Management Long Term Disability Plan.
          (Exhibit 10-f to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-h  Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral
          Plan.  (Exhibit 10-g to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-i  Senior Management Financial Counseling Program.
          (Exhibit 10-h to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-j  Senior Management Executive Health Plan, effective
          January 1, 1987.  (Exhibit 10-i to Form 10-K for 1986.)

    10-k  Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
          (Exhibit 10-t to Form 10-K for 1985.)

    10-l  Form of Indemnity Agreement, effective July 1,
          1986, between SBC and each of its directors and
          officers.  (Appendix 1 to Definitive Proxy Statement
          dated March 18, 1987.)

    10-m  Form of Change of Control Severance Agreements for
          all Officers of SBC and certain Officers of SBC's
          subsidiaries.  (Exhibit 10-p to Form 10-K for 1988.)

    10-n  Stock Savings Plan, revised effective February 1,
          1994. (Appendix A to Definitive Proxy Statement dated
          March 18, 1994.)

    10-o  1992 Stock Option Plan, revised effective
          December 1, 1993.  (Exhibit 10.15 to Registration
          Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-p  Key Executive Officer Short Term Incentive Plan.
          (Appendix B to Definitive Proxy Statement dated March
          18, 1994.)

    10-q  Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
          (Exhibit 10.17 to Registration Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-r  Officer Retirement Savings Plan.  (Exhibit 10.18 to
          Registration Statement No. 33-54795.)

    10-s  1996 Stock and Incentive Plan.  (Appendix to
          Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 1996.)

    12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    13    Portions of SBC's Annual Report to shareowners for
          the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.  Only the
          information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-
          K is included in the exhibit.

    21    Subsidiaries of SBC.

    23    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

    24    Powers of Attorney.

    27    Financial Data Schedule.

    99-a  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings Plan for
          the year 1995 to be filed under Form 10-K/A.

    99-b  Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Savings and
          Security Plan for the year 1995 to be filed under
          Form 10-K/A.



