
10-K
FORM 10-K



                                       
================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549
                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

                                          OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(b) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the transition period from _______________ to ________________.

                         Commission file number: 0-26176
                                       
                       ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           NEVADA                                               88-0336997
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer 
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)


        5701 S. SANTA FE                             
       LITTLETON, COLORADO                                        80120
(Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (303) 723-1000

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    None

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
                 Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value 
          6 3/4% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock
                                       
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ ]

     As of March 13, 1998, the aggregate market value of Class A Common Stock
held by non-affiliates* of the Registrant approximated $166 million based upon
the closing price of the Class A Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq National
Market as of the close of business on that date.

     As of March 13, 1998, the Registrant's outstanding Common stock consisted
of 15,009,629 shares of Class A Common Stock and 29,804,401 shares of Class B
Common Stock, each $0.01 par value.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The following documents are incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference:

     Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Registrant to be held May
22, 1998 are incorporated by reference in Part III herein.

  *  Without acknowledging that any individual director or executive officer of
     the Company is an affiliate, the shares over which they have voting control
     have been included as owned by affiliates solely for purposes of this 
     computation.

================================================================================


                                       
                               
                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Item 2.  Properties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . . . . . . .   26

                                     PART II
         
Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
         Matters.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Item 9.  Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37

                                   PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. . . . . . . .   38
Item 11. Executive Compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. .   38
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. . . . . . . . . .   38

                                      PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K .   39

          Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
          Index to Financial Statements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  F-1


   DISH Network-SM- is a service mark of EchoStar Communications Corporation.


                                    PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

     ALL STATEMENTS CONTAINED HEREIN, AS WELL AS STATEMENTS MADE IN PRESS 
RELEASES AND ORAL STATEMENTS THAT MAY BE MADE BY ECHOSTAR OR BY OFFICERS, 
DIRECTORS OR EMPLOYEES OF ECHOSTAR ACTING ON ITS BEHALF, THAT ARE NOT 
STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL FACT CONSTITUTE "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS" WITHIN 
THE MEANING OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995.  SUCH 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS INVOLVE KNOWN AND UNKNOWN RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND 
OTHER FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE THE ACTUAL RESULTS OF ECHOSTAR TO BE 
MATERIALLY DIFFERENT FROM HISTORICAL RESULTS OR FROM ANY FUTURE RESULTS 
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.  AMONG THE FACTORS 
THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY ARE THE FOLLOWING: THE 
UNAVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT CAPITAL ON SATISFACTORY TERMS TO FINANCE 
ECHOSTAR'S BUSINESS PLAN;  INCREASED COMPETITION FROM CABLE, DIRECT BROADCAST 
SATELLITE ("DBS"), OTHER SATELLITE SYSTEM OPERATORS AND OTHER PROVIDERS OF 
SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION SERVICES; THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND 
COMPETITORS INTO THE SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION BUSINESS;  INCREASED SUBSCRIBER 
ACQUISITION COSTS AND SUBSCRIBER PROMOTION SUBSIDIES;  THE INABILITY OF 
ECHOSTAR TO OBTAIN NECESSARY SHAREHOLDER AND BONDHOLDER APPROVAL OF ANY 
STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS;  THE INABILITY OF ECHOSTAR TO OBTAIN AND RETAIN 
NECESSARY AUTHORIZATIONS FROM THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATION COMMISSION ("FCC");  
THE OUTCOME OF ANY LITIGATION IN WHICH ECHOSTAR MAY BE INVOLVED;  GENERAL 
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS;  AND OTHER RISK FACTORS DESCRIBED FROM TIME 
TO TIME IN ECHOSTAR'S REPORTS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION ("SEC").  IN ADDITION TO STATEMENTS THAT EXPLICITLY DESCRIBE SUCH 
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, READERS ARE URGED TO CONSIDER STATEMENTS THAT 
INCLUDE THE TERMS "BELIEVES," "BELIEF," "EXPECTS," "PLANS," "ANTICIPATES," 
"INTENDS" OR THE LIKE TO BE UNCERTAIN AND FORWARD-LOOKING.  ALL CAUTIONARY 
STATEMENTS MADE HEREIN SHOULD BE READ AS BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER THEY APPEAR.  IN THIS CONNECTION, 
INVESTORS SHOULD CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED HEREIN.

GENERAL

     The operations of EchoStar Communications Corporation ("ECC," and 
together with its subsidiaries, "EchoStar" or the "Company") include three 
interrelated business units:
     
   - THE DISH NETWORK - a DBS subscription television service in the United
     States.  As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar had approximately 1,040,000 DISH
     Network subscribers.
     
   - TECHNOLOGY - the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of DBS set-top
     boxes, antennae and other digital equipment for the DISH Network ("EchoStar
     Receiver Systems"), and the design, manufacture and distribution of similar
     equipment for direct-to-home ("DTH") projects of others internationally,
     together with the provision of uplink center design, construction
     oversight, and other project integration services for international DTH
     ventures.
          
   - SATELLITE SERVICES - the turn-key delivery of video, audio and data
     services to business television customers and other satellite users.  These
     services include satellite uplink services, satellite transponder space
     usage, and other services. 
     
BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY

     Since 1994, EchoStar has deployed substantial resources to develop the 
"EchoStar DBS System."  The EchoStar DBS System consists of EchoStar's 
FCC-allocated DBS orbital spectrum, three operational DBS satellites, a 
fourth DBS satellite expected to be launched this Spring, digital satellite 
receivers, a digital broadcast operations center, customer service 
facilities, and other assets utilized in its operations.  EchoStar's 
principal business strategy is to continue developing its subscription 
television service in the U.S. to provide consumers with a fully viable 
alternative to cable television service.
     
     EchoStar's future success in the subscription television industry is 
dependent upon its ability to acquire and retain DISH Network subscribers, 
among other factors.  During 1996, in order to stimulate subscriber growth, 
EchoStar made a strategic decision to reduce the price charged to consumers 
for EchoStar Receiver Systems.  Accordingly, EchoStar began selling its 
EchoStar Receiver Systems below its manufactured cost.  EchoStar's marketing 
programs 



and pricing strategies have significantly increased the affordability of 
EchoStar Receiver Systems for consumers.  The primary purposes of these 
marketing promotions are to rapidly build a subscriber base, to expand retail 
distribution of EchoStar's products, and to build consumer awareness of the 
DISH Network brand.  These programs are consistent with and emphasize 
EchoStar's long-term business strategy which focuses on generating the 
majority of its future revenue through the sale of DISH Network programming 
to a large subscriber base.  These programs, however, have resulted in, and 
will continue to result in, EchoStar incurring significant costs to acquire 
subscribers.  EchoStar believes such costs will be fully recouped from future 
programming revenues expected to be generated from customers obtained as a 
result of these programs.
     
     EchoStar also employs a "value-based" strategy with respect to 
programming packages available on the DISH Network.  For example, the DISH 
Network's entry level "America's Top 40" programming package is priced at 
$19.99 per month, compared to, on average, over $30 per month for comparable 
cable television service.  The DISH Network's recently announced "America's 
Top 60" programming package (priced at $28.99 per month) also compares 
favorably to similar cable television programming.  The rate for a similar 
cable television system offering, consisting of an expanded basic cable 
package and a digital music service, typically exceeds $40 per month.  
Similarly, the DISH Network offers six channels of HBO, offering six 
different movies at any one-time, for only $10.99 per month, compared to, on 
average, over $10 per month for one cable channel of HBO.
     
     EchoStar believes that in order for the DISH Network to be a true 
fully-competitive alternative to cable television service, it must, among 
other things, develop a method to seamlessly provide local broadcast network 
channels to consumers.  Consequently, in January 1998, EchoStar commenced 
satellite delivery of local network affiliates to consumers in certain of the 
largest markets in the Eastern and Central time zones.  EchoStar also 
commenced a marketing campaign emphasizing the DISH Network's ability to 
provide local channels to consumers (either through an off-air antenna or 
directly via satellite in certain U.S. markets).  By the end of the first 
quarter of 1998, EchoStar expects to be retransmitting the NBC, ABC, CBS and 
Fox affiliates (collectively, the "Network Affiliates") from New York City, 
Washington D.C., Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, and up to potentially five 
additional markets, to "unserved households" (as defined by applicable laws 
and regulations) in the local areas from which those channels originate (the 
"Local Strategy").  See "-GOVERNMENT REGULATION."  EchoStar presently expects 
that by the end of 1998, it may allocate up to one-third of its total 
authorized DBS satellite capacity to implement its Local Strategy in 20 of 
the largest television markets in the continental United States.  
Implementation of EchoStar's Local Strategy is subject to certain limitations 
imposed by existing regulations.  See "-GOVERNMENT REGULATION."  Several 
influential interest groups, including the National Association of 
Broadcasters (the "NAB"), have expressed opposition to certain aspects of 
EchoStar's Local Strategy.  To the extent that these interest groups are 
successful in their lobbying efforts, EchoStar's ability to fully execute its 
Local Strategy may be adversely affected.  EchoStar's ability to successfully 
implement its Local Strategy also is dependent upon consumer acceptance of 
the installation of a second satellite dish in order to receive local 
programming.  Further, EchoStar's ability to fully implement the Local 
Strategy is materially dependent upon the successful launch and in-orbit 
operation of its fourth DBS satellite ("EchoStar IV").  EchoStar IV is 
currently expected to be launched in the spring of 1998.  See "-SATELLITE 
LAUNCHES." While there can be no assurance, EchoStar believes that its Local 
Strategy may increase the appeal of its DISH Network service, thereby 
increasing the number of DISH Network subscribers.
     
     While EchoStar's revenues during 1997 resulted primarily from DISH 
Network operations, the development of the EchoStar DBS System also has 
produced complementary business opportunities.  EchoStar's Technology 
business resulted from the development of the DISH Network, and EchoStar's 
revenues are, and are expected to continue to be, derived principally from 
subscription fees for DISH Network programming.  While there can be no 
assurance, EchoStar believes that revenue from its Technology business may 
increase in the future.  Further, EchoStar's Technology business is expected 
to continue to support and create revenue opportunities for the DISH Network. 
For example, the design of digital set-top equipment for international DTH 
customers is performed by the same employees who design EchoStar Receiver 
Systems.  Consequently, international Technology projects may result in 
improvements in design and economies of scale in the production of EchoStar 
Receiver Systems for the DISH Network.  Likewise, EchoStar believes that 
providing Satellite Services to business television and other customers may 
enhance DISH Network subscriber growth because business television customers 
must use EchoStar Receiver Systems to receive business television 
programming.  While there can be no assurance, EchoStar believes that many of 
its business television customers also may subscribe to the DISH Network's 
other programming service offerings.



DISH NETWORK

     Since commencing operation in March 1996, the DISH Network has grown to 
over 1.0 million subscribers and has become a leading provider of DBS 
programming services in the United States.  DBS, as used herein, describes a 
high power satellite broadcast service in the Ku frequency band that, by 
international agreement, contemplates unique wide orbital spacing among 
satellites, permitting higher powered transmissions that can be received on 
an 18-inch satellite dish.  Although the concept of DBS was introduced in 
1982, it did not become commercially viable until the last several years 
because available satellite technology did not allow for the power required 
to transmit to small dishes and digital compression technology had not been 
adequately developed.  Today, EchoStar believes that DBS provides the most 
cost-efficient national point to multi-point transport of video, audio and 
data services.
     
     EchoStar has three operational DBS satellites in-orbit ("EchoStar I," 
"EchoStar II" and "EchoStar III") and an additional DBS satellite under 
construction, which is expected to be launched this Spring (EchoStar IV).  
DBS satellites operate in geosynchronous orbit above the equator, from 
orbital positions or "slots."  Orbital slots are designated by their 
longitude and comprise both a physical location and an assignment of 
broadcast spectrum in the applicable frequency band, divided into 32 
frequency channels, each with a useable bandwidth of 24 MHz.  Using digital 
compression technology, each frequency channel can be converted into six or 
more digital channels of programming.  Following the launch of EchoStar IV, 
EchoStar expects to be utilizing a total of at least 48 such frequencies, 
including 21 frequency channels at an orbital slot capable of providing 
nationwide DBS service.  See "-GOVERNMENT REGULATION - DBS AND OTHER 
PERMITS." 
     
DBS AND RELATED COMPONENTS
     
     As an operator of a digital satellite television service, EchoStar 
enters into agreements with programmers, who deliver their programming 
content to EchoStar's Digital Broadcast Operations Center via commercial 
satellite, fiber optics or microwave transmissions.  EchoStar generally 
monitors such signals for quality, and may add promotional messages, public 
service programming or other system-specific content.  The signals are then 
digitized, compressed, encrypted and combined with other programming sharing 
a given transponder and other necessary data streams (such as conditional 
access information).  Each signal is then uplinked, or transmitted, to one of 
EchoStar's DBS satellites, which receives and transmits the signal to 
consumers.  
   
     In order to receive DISH Network programming, a subscriber must be 
equipped with: (i) a dish; (ii) a low noise block converter ("LNB") and 
related equipment; (iii) an integrated receiver/decoder ("IRD," sometimes 
referred to herein as the "satellite receiver" or "set-top box"), which 
receives the data stream from each broadcasting transponder, separates it 
into separate digital programming signals, decrypts and decompresses those 
signals that the subscriber is authorized to receive, and converts such 
digital signals into analog radio frequency signals; and (iv) a television 
set, to view and listen to the programming contained in the analog signals.  
A subscriber's IRD is generally connected to the DISH Network's authorization 
center by telephone to report the purchase of pay-per-view movies and events. 
   
     The EchoStar DBS System integrates digital video and audio compression. 
Authorization information for subscription programming is stored on 
microchips placed on a credit card-sized access, or "smart card."  The smart 
card, which can easily be updated or replaced periodically at low cost, 
provides a simple and effective method to adjust a subscriber's level of 
programming services.  If the receiver's smart card is authorized for a 
particular channel, the data is decrypted and passed on for video and audio 
decompression.  
   
     PROGRAMMING.  The majority of EchoStar's revenue during 1997 resulted 
from the provision of subscription television services.  EchoStar currently 
provides over 120 channels of digital television programming and over 30 
channels of CD-quality audio programming to the entire continental United 
States.  When EchoStar III, which was launched on October 5, 1997, became 
operational in January 1998, the DISH Network expanded its service offerings 
to include a total of over 200 channels.  EchoStar III primarily is being 
used to implement the initial phase of the Local Strategy and to provide 
certain religious programming services.  To attract subscribers, EchoStar has 
sought to exploit the cost advantage that DBS has over cable operators by 
offering the most popular programming (including "basic" channels such as 
ESPN, CNN, USA Network, Discovery, MTV and two channels each of Nickelodeon 
and The Disney Channel) at affordable prices, by emphasizing a strong 
commitment to customer service, and by emphasizing the 



quality difference between a digital and analog signal.  The DISH Network 
also offers multichannel premium services for separate purchase, at prices 
which vary depending upon the number and selection of services purchased. The 
DISH Network also offers ten channels of pay-per-view programming. 
     
     LOCAL STRATEGY.  As described previously, EchoStar believes that in 
order for the DISH Network to be a true, fully-competitive alternative to 
cable television service, it must, among other things, develop a method to 
seamlessly provide local broadcast network channels to consumers.  
Consequently, in January 1998, EchoStar commenced satellite delivery of local 
network affiliates to certain of the largest markets in the Eastern and 
Central time zones.  By the end of the first quarter of 1998, EchoStar 
expects to be retransmitting the Network Affiliates' signals from New York 
City, Washington D.C., Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, and up to 
potentially five additional markets, to "unserved households" (as defined by 
applicable laws and regulations) in the local areas from which those channels 
originate.  See "-GOVERNMENT REGULATION." EchoStar presently expects that by 
the end of 1998 it may allocate up to one-third of its total authorized DBS 
satellite capacity to implement its Local Strategy in 20 of the largest 
television markets in the continental United States.  An additional 18-inch 
satellite dish may be necessary to receive EchoStar's Network Affiliates 
programming.  Thus, EchoStar's ability to successfully implement its Local 
Strategy is dependent upon consumer acceptance of the installation of a 
second satellite dish in order to receive local programming.  EchoStar's 
Network Affiliates programming package is available for purchase by DISH 
Network subscribers in unserved households in the applicable local markets, 
and subject to existing regulations, for $4.99 per month. Several influential 
interest groups, including the NAB, have expressed opposition to certain 
aspects of EchoStar's Local Strategy.  To the extent that these interest 
groups are successful in their lobbying efforts, EchoStar's ability to fully 
execute its Local Strategy may be adversely affected.
     
     ECHOSTAR RECEIVER SYSTEMS. DISH Network programming is available to 
consumers in the continental U.S. who purchase or lease an EchoStar Receiver 
System.  A typical EchoStar Receiver System includes an 18-inch satellite 
dish, an EchoStar digital satellite receiver (which processes and descrambles 
signals for television viewing), a user-friendly remote control, and related 
components. EchoStar Receiver Systems are available in a variety of models.  
Subscribers can receive local broadcast signals, either through a standard 
television antenna (a traditional rooftop or set-top antenna), by subscribing 
to basic cable or, in certain areas of the United States, directly from the 
DISH Network.  EchoStar Receiver Systems are available in a variety of 
models.  The standard EchoStar Receiver System incorporates infrared remote 
control technology, an on-screen program guide, and the ability to switch 
between DISH Network and local programming signals using the remote control.  
In addition to the on-screen program guide and local programming access 
features of the standard model, the mid-level model features UHF remote 
control technology (which allows subscribers to control their EchoStar 
Receiver System from up to 150 feet away through walls), and a high-speed 
data port.  EchoStar's premium model includes UHF remote control technology, 
a high-speed data port, enhanced on-screen program guide capabilities 
(including local program information and seamless integration of local and 
satellite channels), and on-screen caller identification capability.  

     While EchoStar Receiver Systems are internally designed and engineered, 
EchoStar does not manufacture EchoStar Receiver Systems directly.  Rather, 
EchoStar has contracted for the manufacture of EchoStar Receiver Systems with 
a high-volume contract electronics manufacturer.  SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI") 
currently is EchoStar's only manufacturer of EchoStar Receiver Systems.  
During February 1998, EchoStar executed two separate agreements for the 
manufacture of digital set-top boxes in accordance with EchoStar's 
specifications.  Phillips Electronics of North America Corporation 
("Phillips") and VTech Communications Ltd. ("VTech") are expected to begin 
the manufacture of EchoStar's digital set-top boxes during the second half of 
1998.  There can be no assurance that either or both of Phillips or VTech 
will be able to successfully manufacture and deliver digital set-top boxes 
during 1998, or at all.  JVC Company of America ("JVC") also manufactures 
limited quantities of other consumer electronics products that incorporate 
EchoStar Receiver Systems.  EchoStar is negotiating with additional 
brand-name consumer electronics manufacturers to produce receivers for use 
with the DISH Network.  No assurance can be provided regarding the ultimate 
success of such negotiations.

     INSTALLATION.  Currently, a majority of EchoStar Receiver System 
installations are performed either by third-parties or are self-installed by 
consumers.  A wholly-owned subsidiary of EchoStar offers installation 
services from its 18 offices located throughout the continental U.S.  
EchoStar intends to begin marketing these services more aggressively during 
1998 and, while there can be no assurance, anticipates that demand for its 
installation services may increase as demand for its DISH Network service 
grows.



     CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTER.  EchoStar currently maintains customer service 
centers in Thornton, Colorado and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  Potential and 
existing subscribers can call a single telephone number to receive assistance 
for hardware, programming, installation and technical support.  The customer 
service center in Thornton, Colorado is owned and operated by EchoStar. The 
Pennsylvania facility is operated by a third-party.  EchoStar presently 
intends to open an additional owned and operated customer service center 
during the second quarter of 1998, and a third by the end of 1998.  EchoStar 
anticipates that it will expand its customer service operations as its DISH 
Network subscriber base demands.

     DIGITAL BROADCAST OPERATIONS CENTER.  EchoStar's Digital Broadcast 
Operations Center is located in Cheyenne, Wyoming.  The Digital Broadcast 
Operations Center uplinks programming content to EchoStar's DBS satellites. 
Uplink is the process by which signals are received from either the 
programming originator or distributor and transmitted to one of EchoStar's 
DBS satellites. The Digital Broadcast Operations Center uses fiber optic 
lines and downlink antennas to receive programming and other data at the 
center.  The Digital Broadcast Operations Center also maintains a number of 
large uplink antennas and other equipment necessary to modulate and 
demodulate the programming and data signals.  All compression and encryption 
of the DISH Network's programming signals are performed by equipment at 
EchoStar's Digital Broadcast Operations Center.  

     CONDITIONAL ACCESS SYSTEM.  EchoStar has contracted with a third-party 
for the provision of access control systems, including "smart cards" used 
with each EchoStar Receiver System.  The smart cards contain the 
authorization codes necessary to receive DISH Network programming.  The 
access control system is central to the security network that prevents 
unauthorized viewing of programming.  Access control systems of other DBS 
providers have been commercially pirated.  To date, the Company is unaware of 
any compromises of its access control system.  While there can be no 
assurance that breaches of EchoStar's access control system will not occur in 
the future, the Company believes its access control system will adequately 
prevent commercially viable unauthorized access to programming.  Further, 
there are a number of corrective measures which EchoStar could take in the 
event of a breach of its conditional access system including, as a last 
resort, a complete replacement of the access control system.  Any security 
breach could result in a material reduction of DISH Network revenue until 
repaired, and in material unanticipated costs for smart-card or system 
replacement.

     SUBSCRIBER MANAGEMENT.  EchoStar utilizes third-party software to 
perform subscriber management and billing functions related to its DISH 
Network business.  EchoStar has the ability to extract data from the 
subscriber management system maintained by the third-party.

DBS SALES AND MARKETING
     
     EchoStar primarily utilizes its existing nationwide network of over 
10,000 independent distribution and retail stores and outlets to market and 
distribute EchoStar Receiver Systems and DISH Network programming services to 
its target markets.  EchoStar intends to enhance consumer awareness of its 
product relative to other providers of DTH services by forming alliances with 
nationally recognized distributors of other consumer electronics products.  
During 1997, EchoStar entered into a strategic alliance with JVC pursuant to 
which JVC distributes EchoStar Receiver Systems under the JVC label through 
certain of its nationwide retailers. During February 1998, EchoStar also 
executed agreements with Phillips and VTech pursuant to which those entities 
will distribute privately labeled EchoStar Receiver Systems through certain 
of their nationwide retailers.  EchoStar believes, but can give no assurance, 
that these additional distribution channels will further enhance EchoStar's 
ability to attract subscribers to the DISH Network.
     
     To a lesser extent, EchoStar also maintains a direct sales channel. 
Customers can call a single telephone number (1-800-333-DISH) 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, to order EchoStar Receiver Systems, activate programming 
services, schedule installation and obtain technical support.  EchoStar 
believes it is the only DBS provider to offer a comprehensive single-point 
customer service function.  EchoStar also is expanding into other 
less-traditional means of distribution such as alliances with electric and 
other utilities, multi-level marketing firms, and other non-consumer 
electronic retail businesses.

     EchoStar offers a residual (commission) program that it believes is 
competitive with that offered by other DBS operators.  The program pays 
qualified distributors and retailers an activation allowance, along with a 
monthly fixed residual for programming services provided over the period that 
the respective DISH Network subscriber remains active.  Thus, residuals may 
be earned by distributors and retailers over an extended period.



     EchoStar's marketing strategy includes national and regional broadcast 
and print advertising promoting the benefits of the DISH Network.  EchoStar 
has comprehensive dealer guides describing all aspects of the DISH Network 
and its integrated product lines (programming, hardware and installation), 
which are provided to distributors at nationwide educational seminars.  
EchoStar expects to continue to offer a high level of retail support and to 
provide comprehensive point-of-sale literature, product displays, 
demonstration kiosks and signage for retail outlets.  EchoStar also provides 
a promotional channel as well as a programming subscription for in-store 
viewing.  EchoStar's mobile sales and marketing team visits retail outlets on 
a regular basis to reinforce training and ensure point-of-sale needs are 
quickly fulfilled.  EchoStar also provides retailers and distributors a DISH 
Network merchandise catalogue so that they may add to their promotional 
materials.  Additionally, one channel of programming on the DISH Network 
provides information about additional services and promotions periodically 
offered by the DISH Network.  That channel is geared towards educating 
retailers, satellite dealers, and current and potential subscribers.  
     
     EchoStar's marketing programs and pricing strategies have significantly 
increased the affordability of EchoStar Receiver Systems for consumers.  In 
August 1996, EchoStar lowered the suggested retail price for a standard 
EchoStar Receiver System to $199 (as compared to an average retail price in 
March 1996 of $499), conditioned upon the consumer's one-year prepaid 
subscription to the DISH Network's America's Top 50 CD programming package 
for $300 (the "1996 Promotion").  During 1997, EchoStar further reduced the 
"up-front" costs to consumers by maintaining the suggested retail price for a 
standard EchoStar Receiver System at $199 and eliminating any related prepaid 
subscription commitments (the "1997 Promotion").  The primary purposes of the 
1996 Promotion and the 1997 Promotion were to rapidly build a subscriber 
base, to expand retail distribution of EchoStar's products, and to build 
consumer awareness of the DISH Network brand.  These promotions are 
consistent with and emphasize EchoStar's long-term business strategy which 
focuses on generating the majority of its future revenue through the sale of 
DISH Network programming to a large subscriber base.  The 1996 and 1997 
Promotions have resulted in, and will continue to result in, EchoStar 
incurring significant costs to acquire subscribers.  EchoStar believes those 
costs will be fully recouped from future programming revenues expected to be 
generated from customers obtained as a result of these promotions.  DISH 
Network reception equipment cannot be utilized with competitors' systems.  
Consequently, subscribers cannot seamlessly migrate to alternative DBS 
providers.  Further, based on high DBS industry consumer satisfaction 
ratings, feedback from consumers and dealers, and low DISH Network subscriber 
turnover rates (to date, approximately 1% per month), EchoStar anticipates 
high customer retention rates leading to an expected average minimum 
subscriber life of at least three years.  Further, a majority of DISH Network 
subscribers purchase premium and pay-per-view programming in addition to 
their America's Top 40 or America's Top 50 subscription. These incremental 
revenues reduce the length of time necessary to recoup the average cost of 
acquiring new subscribers.  

     EchoStar's present marketing strategy is based on current competitive 
conditions;  those conditions may change and any such changes could adversely 
affect EchoStar.  Future changes in marketing strategy may include additional 
promotions geared toward further increasing the affordability of EchoStar 
Receiver Systems and related accessories which, among other things, could 
increase EchoStar's cost of acquiring new subscribers.  

SATELLITES

     EchoStar I and EchoStar II each are Lockheed Martin Series 7000 
satellites equipped with 16 Ku-band transponders.  Each transponder operates 
at 130 Watts of power, approximately eight times the power of typical C-band 
transponders. EchoStar III is, and EchoStar IV will be, Lockheed Martin 
Series A2100AX satellites equipped with 32 transponders that will operate at 
approximately 120 watts per channel (switchable to 16 transponders operating 
at over 230 watts per channel).  Each transponder is capable of transmitting 
multiple digital video, audio and data channels.  Ownership of EchoStar IV 
will be maintained by Lockheed Martin until successful completion of in-orbit 
testing of the satellite (approximately 50 days after launch).  EchoStar's 
satellites have a minimum design life of 12 years.  The loss, damage or 
destruction of any EchoStar satellite as a result of military actions or acts 
of war, anti-satellite devices, electrostatic storm, or collision with space 
debris would have a material adverse effect on EchoStar.  
     
     Certain of the electric power converters ("EPC") on EchoStar III are 
operating at temperatures slightly outside of engineering specifications, but 
within qualified limits for those EPCs.  EPCs supply power to the satellite 
transponders.  This difference in operational performance could potentially 
shorten the expected life of the affected transponders, thereby potentially 
reducing the capacity or useful life of EchoStar III.  To date, EchoStar III 
has not 



experienced any negative effects resulting from this variation in 
operational performance.  Lockheed Martin currently is developing a 
contingency plan to minimize any potential negative effects resulting from 
the temperature deviations described above.  There can be no assurance 
regarding the ultimate success of this contingency plan.  EchoStar expects 
that any loss of capacity or satellite life that may result from the 
potential impairment of EchoStar III would be covered by insurance.  However, 
insurance would not compensate for lost revenue.

     Satellites are subject to significant risks, including satellite 
defects, launch failure, destruction and damage that may result in incorrect 
orbital placement or prevent proper commercial operation.  Approximately 15% 
of all commercial geosynchronous satellite launches have resulted in a total 
or constructive total loss.  The failure rate varies by launch vehicle and 
manufacturer.  A number of satellites constructed by Lockheed Martin have 
experienced defects resulting in total or partial loss following launch.  The 
type of failures experienced have varied widely.  Lockheed Martin constructed 
all of EchoStar's DBS satellites.  Although EchoStar has been informed by 
Lockheed Martin that it has made changes in its satellites to rectify the 
defects responsible for past failures, no assurance can be given that 
EchoStar's DBS satellites will perform according to specifications.
     
SATELLITE LAUNCH

     EchoStar contracted with Lockheed-Khrunichev-Energia-International, Inc. 
("LKE") for the launch of EchoStar IV during the Spring of 1998 from the 
Baikonur Cosmodrome in the Republic of Kazakhstan.  LKE provides commercial 
Proton launches through International Launch Services ("ILS"), a joint 
venture between LKE and Lockheed Martin Commercial Launch Services, Inc. 
("Lockheed Services").  EchoStar will launch EchoStar IV on a Proton K/Block 
DM four stage launch vehicle.  Astra 1F, the first commercial launch on a 
Proton K/Block DM, was successfully launched on April 9, 1996 and Inmarsat 
3 F2, the second such commercial launch was successfully launched on 
September 6, 1996.  
     
     The first commercial Proton launch in 1997 was successfully launched on 
May 24, carrying the Telestar 5 payload.  However, three launches utilizing 
the Proton four stage launch vehicle have failed in the last two years.  In 
February 1996, a Proton Block DM (upper stage) failed when its main engine 
did not start properly during the second burn.  Based on representations made 
by ILS, EchoStar believes that corrective actions have been taken that should 
prevent a recurrence of that failure.  In November 1996, the main engine of a 
Proton Block D-Z (modified upper stage) failed to properly start a planned 
second burn during the launch of the Mars 96 spacecraft.  According to ILS, 
an analysis of the November launch failure indicates that the improper start 
was most likely due to faulty guidance and control system commands from the 
Mars 96 spacecraft.  In December 1997, the second burn of the fourth stage 
Proton Block DM failed to occur leaving the AsiaSat 3 payload in an orbit not 
suitable for business operations.  An investigation committee was formed by 
ILS to review this specific failure, its relation to past failures (if any) 
and reach an agreement on the cause and necessary corrective actions.  The 
investigation is currently proceeding and a full report and briefing is 
expected to be available in March 1998.
     
     The Proton Block DM, which will carry EchoStar IV, carries its own fully 
integrated and system level guidance and control system, unlike the Proton 
Block D-2 used in the November 1996 launch described above.  Based on 
representations made by ILS and discussions with insurers, the Company 
believes that the differences between the Proton Block D-2 and the Proton 
Block DM (along with corrective steps made since the last failure) make a 
recurrence of the causes of the Mars 96 and AsiaSat 3 launch failures 
unlikely during the launch of EchoStar IV.  However, there can be no 
assurance in this regard.
     
     In order for EchoStar IV to be launched from Kazakhstan, the satellite 
contractor was required to obtain a technical data exchange license and a 
satellite export license from the U.S. government.  Both of those licenses 
have been obtained.  While it is not expected, these licenses could be 
suspended or revoked if relations between the United States and Russia were 
to deteriorate prior to the launch of EchoStar IV, significantly delaying and 
increasing the cost to launch EchoStar IV.  Any political or social 
instability in Kazakhstan also could affect the cost, timing and overall 
advisability of utilizing LKE as a launch provider for EchoStar IV.
     
     Either party may request a delay in the launch period, subject to the 
payment of penalties based on the length of the delay and the proximity of 
the request to the launch date.  EchoStar has the right, in its sole 
discretion, to terminate the LKE Contract at any time, subject to the 
forfeiture of certain amounts paid to LKE.  In addition, EchoStar has the 
right to terminate the LKE Contract and receive a full refund of all amounts 
paid to LKE in certain 



circumstances, including: (i) a launch delay caused by LKE which exceeds nine 
months from the last day of the original launch period; (ii) an increase in 
the price or change in payment or other terms necessitated by compliance 
with, or implementation of, a trade agreement between the U.S. and Russia; 
(iii) EchoStar's inability to obtain necessary export licenses; (iv) the 
failure of Proton launch vehicles; and (v) EchoStar's inability to procure 
launch insurance on commercially reasonable terms.  In the event termination 
of the LKE Contract is caused by the failure of Proton launch vehicles, 
however, LKE would be entitled to retain up to $15.0 million, depending on 
the number and proximity of Proton failures to EchoStar's scheduled launch.  

     Launch delays could result from weather conditions, technical problems 
associated with the satellite or launch vehicle utilized by the launch 
provider for EchoStar IV, or from other factors beyond EchoStar's control.  
If the launch of EchoStar IV is delayed, EchoStar's strategy to expand its 
DISH Network programming offerings using transponders on that satellite would 
be adversely affected.  

INSURANCE

     Prior to the launch of a satellite, EchoStar is required to obtain 
launch insurance.  The launch insurance policies for EchoStar III and 
EchoStar IV contain standard commercial satellite insurance provisions, 
including a material change condition, that would result in the cancellation 
of insurance or alter the effective rate depending upon certain customary 
exclusions.  Those customary exclusions include, but are not limited to:  
(i) military or similar actions; (ii) laser, directed energy, or nuclear 
anti-satellite devices; (iii) insurrection and similar acts; (iv) 
governmental confiscation; (v) nuclear reaction or radiation contamination; 
and (vi) willful or intentional acts of EchoStar or its contractors.  The 
policies also contain provisions limiting insurance for incidental and 
consequential damages and third-party claims against EchoStar.  The launch 
insurance policies for EchoStar III and EchoStar IV include in-orbit 
insurance for each satellite for a period of 365 days after the launch.
     
     If the launch of any EchoStar satellite is a full or partial failure or 
if, following launch, any EchoStar satellite does not perform to 
specifications, there may be circumstances in which insurance will not fully 
reimburse EchoStar for any loss.  In addition, insurance will not reimburse 
EchoStar for business interruption, loss of business and similar losses that 
might arise from delay in the launch of any EchoStar satellite.  
     
     EchoStar is required under its indentures to obtain and maintain 
in-orbit insurance for its DBS satellites in specified amounts.  EchoStar has 
bound the required in-orbit insurance for EchoStar I and EchoStar II through 
June 25, 1998.  These in-orbit insurance policies include standard commercial 
satellite insurance provisions, including a material change condition, that, 
if successfully invoked, would give insurance carriers the ability to 
increase the cost of the insurance (potentially to a commercially 
impracticable level), require exclusions from coverage that would leave the 
risk uninsured, or rescind their coverage commitment entirely.  The in-orbit 
insurance policies are subject to annual renewal provisions.  While EchoStar 
expects it will be able to renew these policies as they expire, there can be 
no assurance that such renewals will be at rates or on terms favorable to 
EchoStar.  If renewal is not possible, there can be no assurance that 
EchoStar will be able to obtain replacement insurance policies on terms 
favorable to EchoStar.  For example, if any of EchoStar's DBS satellites, or 
other similar satellites, experience anomalies while in orbit, the cost to 
renew in-orbit insurance could increase significantly or coverage exclusions 
for similar anomalies could be required.
     
COMPETITION

     Each of the businesses in which EchoStar operates is highly competitive. 
EchoStar's existing and potential competitors include a wide range of 
companies offering video, audio, data, programming and entertainment 
services.  EchoStar also faces competition from companies offering products 
and services that perform similar functions, including companies that offer 
cable television products and services, wireless cable products and services, 
DTH products and services, as well as DBS and other satellite programming, 
and companies developing new technologies.  Many of EchoStar's competitors 
have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than EchoStar.  
EchoStar expects that quality and variety of programming, quality of picture 
and service, and cost will be the key bases of competition.
     
     Advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the 
marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment, continue to 
occur. EchoStar cannot predict the impact that ongoing or future 
technological, 



market or regulatory developments might have on the video programming 
distribution industry generally or EchoStar specifically.  
     
     CABLE TELEVISION.  Cable television service is currently available to 
the vast majority of U.S. television households.  The U.S. cable television 
industry currently serves over 65 million subscribers, representing 
approximately 67% of U.S. television households.  As an established provider 
of subscription television services, cable television is a formidable 
competitor in the overall market for television households.  Cable television 
systems generally offer 30 to 80 analog channels of video programming.  Cable 
television operators currently have an advantage relative to EchoStar with 
regard to the provision of local programming as well as the provision of 
service to multiple television sets within the same household.  Many cable 
television operators are in the process of upgrading their distribution 
systems to expand their existing capacity.  This expanded capacity is 
expected to be used to provide digital product offerings similar to those 
offered by DBS providers, as well as for interactive and other new services.  
     
     Many of the largest cable systems in the U.S. have announced plans to 
offer high-speed Internet access services.  In some cases, certain cable 
systems have actually commenced provision of such services.  To the extent 
that cable system operators are successful in deploying new services, such as 
high-speed Internet access, cable television subscribers may become 
increasingly reluctant to switch to an alternate provider of subscription 
television services.  
     
     TCI Satellite Entertainment, Inc. ("TSAT") has announced that it intends 
to provide digital programming to TSAT and other cable system operators from 
Tempo Satellite, Inc.'s ("Tempo") DBS satellite launched in March 1997.  
Tempo's DBS satellite would allow TSAT to provide at least 65 digital video 
channels to cable subscribers.  Those subscribers could maintain current 
cable programming service, including local programming.  Through the use of a 
digital set-top receiver system, a household subscribing to cable programming 
and Tempo's DBS digital programming could simultaneously view digital video 
programming on one television and different cable programming on any number 
of other televisions. Currently, DISH Network subscribers must purchase 
multiple EchoStar Receiver Systems in order to view different programming on 
different televisions simultaneously.  TSAT's complementary DBS service could 
make cable a stronger competitor to the DISH Network.  As indicated below, 
the 11 full-CONUS frequencies assigned to Tempo are the subject of an 
application for FCC consent to assignment to PrimeStar.  
     
     OTHER DBS AND HOME SATELLITE OPERATORS.  In addition to EchoStar, 
several other companies have DBS authorizations and are positioned to compete 
with EchoStar for home satellite subscribers.  

     DirecTv, Inc. ("DirecTv") has 27 frequency channel assignments at the 
101DEG.  WL full-CONUS orbital slot. U.S. Satellite Broadcasting Corporation 
("USSB") owns and operates five transponders on DirecTv's first satellite and 
offers a programming service separate from, and complementary to, DirecTv's 
service.  DirecTv and USSB together offer approximately 175 channels of 
combined DBS video programming.  EchoStar currently offers a nationwide 
service of approximately 120 channels of digital video programming.  DirecTv 
currently has exclusive distribution rights for out-of-market National 
Football League telecasts.  While EchoStar intends to offer similar services 
in the future, its current inability to provide such programming places it at 
a competitive disadvantage.  As of December 31, 1997 DirecTv had 
approximately 3.3 million subscribers, approximately one-half of whom also 
subscribe to USSB programming. DirecTv recently filed an application with the 
FCC to construct, launch and operate six additional DBS satellites.  DirecTv 
requested three orbital slots for these satellites at 96.5DEG.  WL, 101DEG.  WL,
and 105.5DEG.  WL.  Some of those satellites would operate on frequencies 
that are not currently allocated domestically for this use;  DirecTv has 
requested an FCC rulemaking to secure such allocations.  If  permitted to 
operate additional DBS satellites at these locations, the additional channels 
DirecTv could provide would significantly improve its competitive position 
compared to EchoStar.

     In addition to its DBS service, DirecTv has plans to complement its 
current DBS service offerings by leasing certain Ku-band frequencies at the 
95DEG.  WL orbital location from a third party.  If DirecTv successfully 
implements this business plan, it is expected that DirecTv's subscribers 
could utilize one 30 to 36 inch satellite dish to receive both the DBS 
programming currently offered from its 101DEG.  WL orbital location and the 
fixed satellite service ("FSS") which may be offered from 95DEG.  WL.  
DirecTv's programming service is expected to include up to 120 channels, 
including a variety of special interest programming, foreign language 
programming and other niche services.  If DirecTv is able to successfully 
expand its service offerings through a combination of DBS and FSS 
programming, its competitive position relative to EchoStar may be enhanced.



     During 1998, SBC Communications Inc. ("SBC") and Bell Atlantic 
Corporation ("Bell Atlantic") entered into marketing alliances with DirecTv 
and USSB.  As a result of these alliances, EchoStar may incur a competitive 
disadvantage in marketing its DISH Network service to existing SBC and Bell 
Atlantic customers.

     PrimeStar currently offers medium power Ku-band programming service to 
customers using dishes approximately three feet in diameter.  PrimeStar is 
owned by a group of multiple-system cable operators and provides nationwide 
service. PrimeStar's medium-power service offers approximately 150 channels 
of video and audio programming.  PrimeStar is expected to have access to 
significant DBS capacity via Tempo's DBS satellite, which is capable of 
providing full-CONUS service.  PrimeStar has announced plans to use Tempo's 
DBS satellite to provide a mix of sports, multichannel movie services, 
pay-per-view services, and popular cable networks to traditional broadcast 
television, basic cable and other analog programming customers.  As of 
December 31, 1997, PrimeStar had approximately 1.9 million subscribers.

     During June 1997, PrimeStar announced that a binding letter of intent 
had been signed providing for its restructuring.  Additionally, PrimeStar, 
which is currently owned by a group of multiple-system cable operators 
("MSOs") including Tele-Communications, Inc. ("TCI"), Time Warner Inc. ("Time 
Warner") and three of the other largest cable MSO's, entered into an 
agreement to combine its assets with American Sky Broadcasting, LLC 
("ASkyB"), a satellite venture formed by The News Corporation Limited 
("News") and MCI Communications Corporation ("MCI"). Each PrimeStar partner 
would contribute its PrimeStar customers and partnership interests into the 
newly formed entity.  ASkyB has agreed to contribute two satellites under 
construction and 28 full-CONUS frequencies at the 110DEG.  WL orbital 
location.  In addition, PrimeStar has agreed to acquire Tempo's license for 
11 full-CONUS frequencies at the 119DEG.  WL orbital location.
     
     During July 1997, PrimeStar and TSAT filed an application with the FCC 
requesting FCC approval for the assignment of Tempo's authorizations to 
PrimeStar in connection with its restructuring.  During August 1997, MCI and 
PrimeStar also filed an FCC application requesting approval for the 
assignment of MCI's DBS authorizations to PrimeStar.  The parties to the two 
transactions also initiated the antitrust clearance process with the 
Department of Justice for each transaction.  Public reports have suggested 
that PrimeStar may have obtained Department of Justice clearance for one of 
the two transactions (the PrimeStar restructuring).  The FCC applications 
have been placed on public notice and have been opposed by EchoStar and 
others.  There can be no assurance that any of these oppositions will be 
successful.  Furthermore, PrimeStar recently announced its intention to use 
Tempo's 11 full-CONUS frequencies under an arrangement that, in PrimeStar's 
view, does not constitute a transfer of control and therefore would not 
require FCC approval.
     
     The proposed restructuring of PrimeStar and its merger with ASkyB, if 
approved and consummated, would result in a stronger competitor with 
substantially greater financial and other resources than EchoStar.  If 
approved in its proposed structure, PrimeStar would have significantly more 
frequencies capable of serving the entire continental U.S. than any other DBS 
provider. Several of the companies that would hold ownership interests in a 
restructured PrimeStar entity provide programming to cable television 
operators, other terrestrial systems and DBS system operators, including 
EchoStar.  These content providers, including News, Turner Broadcasting 
Corporation ("Turner"), Time Warner, TCI,  Cox Cable ("Cox"), Comcast and US 
WEST, Inc. ("US WEST"), would likely provide programming to the new PrimeStar 
entity and may decide to provide this programming to PrimeStar on better 
terms and at a lower cost than to other cable or DBS operators.  
Additionally, among other things, those content providers could raise 
programming prices to all cable, DBS and other providers (including 
PrimeStar), thereby increasing the Company's cost of programming to rates 
that are effectively higher than those borne by PrimeStar's owners. Although 
the current programming access provisions under the Cable Act (as defined) 
and applicable FCC's rules require cable-affiliated content providers to make 
programming available to multi-channel video programming distributors on 
non-discriminatory terms, there are exceptions to these requirements, which 
in any event are currently set to expire in 2002.  Any amendment to, or 
interpretation of, the Cable Act or the FCC's rules that would revise or 
eliminate these provisions could adversely affect EchoStar's ability to 
acquire programming on a cost-effective basis.  
     
     The FCC has allocated certain additional U.S. licensed DBS frequencies 
to DirecTv, USSB and other parties.  These frequencies could provide 
additional capacity for existing DBS operators thereby enhancing their 
competitive position relative to the Company.  Further, such presently unused 
frequencies could enable new competitors to enter the DBS market.  




     DirecTv, USSB and PrimeStar have instituted aggressive promotional
campaigns marketing their respective services.  Their marketing efforts have
focused on the breadth of popular programming and cost of services offered.  In
the case of DirecTv and USSB, their marketing efforts have been joined by RCA,
Sony Electronics, Inc., and other manufacturers, which market DBS receivers and
related components.  Several other companies also manufacture such equipment,
including Uniden America Corp., Toshiba America Consumer Products, Inc., and
Hughes Network Systems, Inc.

     Due to their substantially greater resources, earlier market entry, greater
number of channels, manufacturing alliances with low-cost, high-volume
manufacturers with established retail distribution, possible volume discounts
for programming offerings, and, in the case of PrimeStar, relationship with
cable programmers, EchoStar is currently at a competitive disadvantage to
DirecTv, USSB and PrimeStar.  

     ALTERNATIVE SATELLITE PROVIDERS OF LOCAL SIGNALS.  A recently formed
entity, Capitol Broadcasting Company, Inc. ("Capitol Broadcasting"), has
announced plans to provide satellite carriage of all 1,600 full-power local TV
stations within their Designated Market Areas ("DMA") by obtaining
retransmission consent and complying with the "must-carry" provisions of the
Cable Act.  If Capitol Broadcasting successfully implements this strategy,
EchoStar's Local Strategy may be adversely impacted.  Further, because Capitol
Broadcasting's strategy is based on the Cable Act (whereas EchoStar's Local
Strategy relies on the SHVA (as defined)), and Capitol's plan includes all 1,600
full-power local TV stations, Capitol's strategy is likely to receive the wide-
spread support of the NAB.

     OTHER POTENTIAL PROVIDERS OF DBS OR SIMILAR SERVICES.  In addition to MCI,
DirecTV, USSB and Tempo/PrimeStar, two other companies have been granted
conditional permits by the FCC for DBS service but are not yet operational.  

     A subsidiary of Loral ("Continental") currently has an assignment of 11
frequencies at the 61.5DEG.  WL orbital slot covering the eastern and central
U.S. and 11 frequencies at the 166DEG.  WL orbital slot covering the western
U.S. On November 21, 1995, the FCC granted Continental an extension of its
permit until August 15, 1999.

     Foreign satellite systems also are potential providers of DBS within the
U.S. In May 1996, the FCC proposed permitting non-U.S. satellite systems to
serve the U.S. if the home country of the foreign-licensed satellite offers open
"effective competitive opportunities" ("ECO") in the same satellite service to
U.S. licensed satellites.  In the February 1997 World Trade Organization
Agreement, the U.S. offer contained an exemption from market opening commitments
for, among other things, DBS and DTH services.  The FCC initiated a proceeding
in July 1997 proposing to maintain the ECO test with respect to foreign-licensed
satellites seeking to provide DBS and DTH service in the United States.  

     The FCC has indicated that it may apply to the International
Telecommunication Union ("ITU") for allocation of additional DBS orbital
locations capable of providing service to the U.S.  Further, Canada, Mexico and
other countries have been allocated various DBS orbital locations which are
capable of providing service to part or all of the continental U.S. In general,
non-U.S. licensed satellites are not allowed to provide domestic DBS or DTH
service in the U.S. However, in November 1996, the U.S. and Mexico signed a
Protocol for cross-border DBS and DTH service, and Mexico has indicated that it
will auction one or more of its DBS orbital locations.  Those DBS orbital
locations could be used to provide service to the U.S. 

     Pursuant to the protocol, the FCC already has permitted a company to
provide DTH services in the U.S. through a Mexican satellite.  Televisa
International, LLC ("Televisa") is currently in the process of developing DTH
television and related services in Mexico, Latin America, North America, and
Europe.  Televisa received authorization from the FCC to operate one million
receive-only earth stations in the U.S. which are capable of receiving DTH
television services from Mexico's Solidaridad II satellite.  The Solidaridad II
satellite operates at 113DEG.  WL providing full-CONUS coverage and is licensed
by the Mexican Government.

     The FCC authorized Televisa to operate receive dishes that are larger, and
possibly less attractive to consumers, than the dishes made available by
EchoStar.  Further, the FCC authorization for Televisa does not provide
Televisa's earth stations with protection from unacceptable radio interference
from nearby satellite networks.  Nevertheless, the authorization of Televisa to
provide service from the 113DEG.  WL orbital slot may produce additional




competition to EchoStar's full-CONUS service.  In October 1997, the U.S. and
Mexico signed a protocol allowing cross-border fixed satellite service ("FSS")
service from Mexican-licensed satellites to the U.S. and vice versa. 

     The U.S. also has indicated its willingness to enter into similar
agreements with other countries in North, Central and South America.  If the
U.S. government moves forward with these initiatives, or if other countries
authorize DBS providers to use their orbital slots to serve the U.S., additional
competition could be created, and EchoStar's DBS authorizations could become
less valuable.  At this time, EchoStar cannot predict whether these or other
recent developments will ultimately result in any additional service to the U.S.

     Additional competition could be realized from operators using extended
Ku-band spectrum and mid- and high-power FSS spectrum to serve the U.S. DTH
market.  A significant amount of available full-CONUS spectrum exists in these
bands.  Further, it may be possible to utilize Ka-band spectrum for DTH
satellite applications, particularly for spot-beam applications.  Finally, other
potential competitors may provide television programming at any time by leasing
transponders from an existing satellite operator.  

     WIRELESS CABLE.  Multichannel, multipoint distribution ("wireless cable")
systems typically offer 20 to 40 channels of analog programming, which may
include local programming (a potential advantage over most digital satellite
systems).  Developments in high compression digital statistical multiplexing
technology are expected to increase significantly the number of channels and
video and audio quality of wireless cable systems.  Wireless cable operators
currently provide an analog signal, with limited capacity and inferior image and
sound quality compared to DBS.  In order to upgrade their systems to implement
digital transmission of high-quality video and audio signals, wireless cable
operators will be required to install digital decoders in each customer's home
at a cost comparable to the cost of an EchoStar Receiver System and make certain
modifications to their transmission facilities.  The cost of such digital
upgrades will be significant and will have to be amortized over a smaller base
of potential customers.  Wireless cable also requires direct line of sight from
the receiver to the transmission tower, which creates the potential for
substantial interference from terrain, buildings and foliage.  Wireless cable
systems served over 1.0 million subscribers at the end of 1997.  

     TELEPHONE COMPANIES.  Certain telecommunications carriers, including
regional bell operating companies and long distance telephone companies, could
become significant competitors in the future, as they have expressed an interest
in becoming providers of subscription television and information services.  The
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act") permits telephone companies to
provide a variety of competitive video services, including owning cable systems,
with certain regulatory safeguards.  It also is possible for telephone companies
to provide high-power DBS service, although any telephone company desiring to
become a high-power DBS broadcaster must obtain an FCC license for an available
orbital location.  The 1996 Act removes barriers to entry which previously
inhibited telephone companies from competing in the provision of video
programming and information services.  Several large telephone companies have
announced plans to acquire or merge with existing cable and wireless cable
systems.  As more telephone companies begin to provide subscription television
programming and other information and communications services to their
customers, additional significant competition for subscribers will develop. 
Among other things, telephone companies have an existing relationship with
virtually every household in their service area, substantial economic resources,
and an existing infrastructure and  therefore may be able to subsidize the
delivery of programming through their position as the sole source of telephone
service to the home.  

     VHF/UHF BROADCASTERS.  Most areas of the U.S. are covered by traditional
terrestrial VHF/UHF television broadcasts that typically include three to ten
channels.  These broadcasters are often low to medium power operators with a
limited coverage area and provide local, network and syndicated programming. 
The local content nature of the programming may be important to the consumer,
and VHF/UHF programming is typically free of charge.  The FCC has allocated
additional digital spectrum to licensed broadcasters.  During a transition
period ending in 2006, each existing television station will be able to transmit
programming on a digital channel that may permit multiple programming services
per channel.  Broadcasters in certain of the largest cities in the continental
U.S. will be required to transmit digital signals during 1999.  When broadcast
affiliates begin transmission of local digital signals, consumer demand for
EchoStar's Network Affiliates programming may be adversely affected.

     PRIVATE CABLE.  Private cable is a multi-channel subscription television
service where the programming is received by a satellite receiver and then
transmitted via coaxial cable throughout private property, often MDUs, without
crossing public rights of way.  Private cable generally operates under an
agreement with a private landowner to service 




a specific MDU, commercial establishment or hotel.  These agreements are often 
exclusive arrangements with terms up to ten years.  Private cable systems 
generally are not subject to substantial federal, state or local regulations.  
The FCC recently amended its rules to allow the provision of point-to-point 
delivery of video programming by private cable operators and other video 
delivery systems in the 18 GHz bandwidth.  Private cable operators compete 
with EchoStar for customers within the general market of consumers of 
subscription television services.  

     LOCAL MULTI-POINT DISTRIBUTION SERVICE ("LMDS").  In March 1997, the FCC
announced its intention to offer two LMDS licenses, one for 1150 MHz and the
other for 150 MHz, in each of 493 Basic Trading Areas ("BTAs") pursuant to an
auction in the case of mutually exclusive applications.  Incumbent local
exchange carriers ("LECs") and cable operators will not be allowed to obtain
in-region licenses for the larger spectrum block for three years.  The LMDS
auction commenced February 18, 1998 and is expected to conclude in March 1998. 
The broadband 28 GHz LMDS spectrum allocation may enable LMDS providers to offer
subscribers a wide variety of audio, video and interactive service options.  

     UTILITIES.  The 1996 Act also authorizes registered utility holding
companies and their subsidiaries to provide video programming services,
notwithstanding the Public Utility Holding Company Act.  Utilities must
establish separate subsidiaries and must apply to the FCC for operating
authority.  Several such utilities have been granted broad authority by the FCC
to engage in activities which could include the provision of video programming.

TECHNOLOGY

     EchoStar's Technology business principally consists of the design,
engineering, manufacturing and sale of digital DTH equipment (such as digital
set-top boxes, antennae and other related accessories).  EchoStar's Technology
business also provides uplink center design, construction oversight and other
integration services to other DTH providers.

     EchoStar's Technology business resulted from the development of the DISH
Network, and EchoStar's revenues are, and are expected to continue to be,
derived principally from subscription fees for DISH Network programming.  While
there can be no assurance, EchoStar believes that revenue from its Technology
business may increase in the future.  Further, the technology business is
expected to continue to support and create revenue opportunities for the DISH
Network.  For example, the design of digital set-top equipment for international
DTH customers is performed by the same employees who design EchoStar Receiver
Systems.  Consequently, international Technology projects may result in
improvements in design and economies of scale in the production of EchoStar
Receiver Systems for the DISH Network.  

     Currently, EchoStar has two agreements with international DTH providers
(one in Canada and one in Spain) for the provision of digital set-top boxes.  A
substantial portion of EchoStar's Technology revenue in 1997 resulted from sales
to these two DTH providers.  As a result, EchoStar's Technology business
currently is economically dependent upon these two DTH providers.  While
EchoStar continues to actively pursue other similar distribution and integration
service opportunities, no assurance can be given that any such additional
negotiations will be successful.  EchoStar's future revenue from the sale of DTH
equipment and integration services in international markets depends largely on
the success of the DTH operator in that country, which, in turn, depends on
other factors, such as the level of consumer acceptance of DTH products and the
intensity of competition for international subscription television subscribers. 
No assurance can be given regarding the level of expected future revenues which
may be generated from EchoStar's alliances with foreign DTH operators.

COMPETITION

     EchoStar's Technology products and services compete with those of a
substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, many with greater
resources, financial or otherwise, than EchoStar.  The rapid technological
changes occurring in these markets are expected to lead to the entry of new
competitors.  EchoStar's ability to anticipate these technological changes and
to introduce enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in
its ability to expand and remain competitive.  Existing competitors' actions and
new entrants may have an adverse impact on EchoStar's sales.  EchoStar believes
that its competitive position in its Technology business results from its
knowledge and experience in the DBS and DTH industries, its technological
leadership and new product development capabilities, and the likely need for
compatibility of new technologies with currently installed systems.  There can
be 




no assurance, however, that competitors will not be able to develop systems
compatible with EchoStar's proprietary technology or that EchoStar will be able
to introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis.

SATELLITE SERVICES

     Satellite Services primarily consist of the turn-key delivery of video,
audio and data, primarily from EchoStar satellites, to customers for business
television, educational and other applications.  Satellite Services was
initially established to address the markets that fall outside of the typical
DISH Network residential market.  Included within Satellite Services are the
following functions: (i) business television ("BTV") services; (ii) broadcast
and interactive data services; (iii) educational services; and (iv) satellite
transmission and other services.  EchoStar's BTV services include the uplink and
delivery of organizationally specific programming content to EchoStar Receiver
Systems that are specifically authorized for reception of those services. 
EchoStar bills for these services based on the amount of satellite transmission
time used by its BTV customers.  EchoStar began commercial deliver of broadcast
and interactive data services during 1997 and expects to expand such services
during 1998.  These services focus on the delivery of data signals to authorized
subscribers.  EchoStar presently offers certain agricultural and financial data
services and expects to expand both the number and variety of data services it
offers.  Transmission and other satellite services consists of the uplink and
transmission of services for corporate and international customers, including
the lease of excess DBS satellite broadcast capacity to third-parties.

COMPETITION

     EchoStar's Satellite Services business faces competition from a number of
other companies and technologies.  Many of these competitors have substantially
greater financial and other resources than EchoStar.  Satellite Services
competitors include, among others, other satellite system operators, cable
television system operators, Internet service providers ("ISPs"), and telephone
companies .  EchoStar believes that the ability of its Satellite Services
business to compete will be based on its knowledge and experience in the DTH and
DBS industry, its technological leadership and new product capabilities, the
quality of its video, audio and data transmissions, the quality of service
provided, and cost.  There can be no assurance that EchoStar's Satellite
Services business will be able to successfully compete with existing and new
providers of similar services

     Advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the market
place and the regulatory and legislative environment, continue to occur. 
EchoStar cannot predict the impact that ongoing or future technological, market
or regulatory developments might have on the satellite industry generally, or
EchoStar's Satellite Services business specifically.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS AND LEGISLATION DOES NOT
PURPORT TO DESCRIBE ALL PRESENT AND PROPOSED GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND
LEGISLATION AFFECTING THE SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION INDUSTRY.  OTHER EXISTING
GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS ARE CURRENTLY THE SUBJECT OF JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS,
LEGISLATIVE HEARINGS OR ADMINISTRATIVE PROPOSALS THAT COULD CHANGE, IN VARYING
DEGREES, THE MANNER IN WHICH THIS INDUSTRY OPERATES.  NEITHER THE OUTCOME OF
THESE PROCEEDINGS NOR THEIR IMPACT UPON THE INDUSTRY OR ECHOSTAR CAN BE
PREDICTED AT THIS TIME.  THIS SECTION SETS FORTH A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF
REGULATORY ISSUES PERTAINING TO OPERATIONS OF ECHOSTAR.

     Authorizations and permits issued by the FCC and foreign regulatory
agencies performing similar functions are required for the construction, launch
and operation of satellites and other components of the EchoStar DBS System, and
the sale of satellite receivers and other EchoStar products in certain
countries.  In addition, as the operator of a privately-owned U.S. satellite
system, EchoStar is subject to the regulatory authority of the FCC and the Radio
Regulations promulgated by the ITU.  As a distributor of subscription television
programming, EchoStar also is affected by numerous laws and regulations,
including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act").
EchoStar believes that it remains free to set prices and serve customers
according to its business judgment, without rate regulation or the statutory
obligation under Title II of the Communications Act to avoid undue
discrimination among customers.  Even if, under a future interpretation of the
1996 Act, EchoStar were to be classified as a telecommunications carrier subject
to Title II, EchoStar believes that such reclassification would not likely
increase substantially the regulatory burdens imposed on EchoStar or have an
adverse impact on EchoStar's DBS operations, although there can be no assurance
in this regard.  EchoStar believes that, because it is engaged in a 




subscription programming service, it is not subject to many of the regulatory 
obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees.  However, there can be no 
assurance that the FCC will not find in the future that EchoStar should be 
treated as a broadcast licensee with respect to its current and future 
operations.  If the FCC were to determine that EchoStar is, in fact, a 
broadcast licensee, EchoStar could be required to comply with all regulatory 
obligations imposed upon broadcast licensees.  EchoStar also requires import 
and general destination export licenses issued by the U.S. Department of 
Commerce for the delivery of its manufactured products to overseas 
destinations.  Finally, because EchoStar has engaged a Russian launch provider 
for EchoStar IV, U.S. export regulations apply to the delivery of the 
satellite and to providing related technical information to the launch 
provider.  Both the satellite export license and the technical data exchange 
license have been obtained from the U.S. government.  While it is not 
expected, these licenses could be suspended or revoked if relations between 
the United States and Russia were to deteriorate prior to the launch of 
EchoStar IV, significantly delaying and increasing the cost to launch EchoStar 
IV.

FCC PERMITS AND LICENSES

   DBS PERMITS

     As the operator of a DBS system, EchoStar is subject to FCC jurisdiction
and review primarily for: (i) assignment of frequencies and orbital slots; (ii)
compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments and authorizations,
including required timetables for construction and operation of satellites;
(iii) authorization of individual satellites (I.E., meeting minimum financial,
legal and technical standards) and earth stations; (iv) avoiding interference
with other radio frequency emitters; (v) compliance with rules the FCC has
established specifically for holders of U.S. DBS satellite authorizations,
including construction milestones and due diligence requirements; and
(vi) compliance with applicable provisions of the Communications Act.

     Once the FCC grants a conditional construction permit, the permittee must
proceed with due diligence in constructing the system.  The FCC has adopted
specific milestones that must be met in order to retain the permit, unless the
FCC determines that an extension or waiver is appropriate, and permittees must
file semi-annual reports on the status of their due diligence efforts.  The due
diligence milestones require holders of conditional permits to complete
contracting for construction of their systems within one year of grant of the
permit (with no unresolved contingencies that could preclude substantial
construction of the satellites), and to place all satellite stations comprising
the system in operation within six years of grant of the permit.  In addition,
holders of permits received after January 19, 1996 must complete construction of
the first satellite in their system within four years of grant of the permit. 
The FCC also may impose other conditions on the grant of the permit.  The
holders of new DBS authorizations issued on or after January 19, 1996 also must
provide DBS service to Alaska and Hawaii where the service is technically
feasible from the acquired orbital locations, which includes 148DEG.  WL.  Those
holding DBS permits as of January 1996 must either provide DBS service to Hawaii
or Alaska from at least one of their orbital locations or relinquish their
western assignments.  As described further below, EchoStar's pending request
with the FCC to launch EchoStar IV to 119DEG.  WL and relocate EchoStar I to
148DEG.  WL requires a waiver of the geographic service requirement.  EchoStar
has requested such a waiver, and it believes that its plan will allow improved
overall service to Alaska and Hawaii compared to available alternatives; there
can be no assurance, however, that the FCC will agree with EchoStar's position
on this matter and that the FCC will grant the waiver request, or that the FCC
will not impose additional restrictions.  Subject to applicable regulations
governing non-DBS operations, a licensee may make unrestricted use of its
assigned frequencies for non-DBS purposes during the first five years of the
ten-year license term.  After the first five years, the licensee may continue to
provide non-DBS service so long as at least half of its total capacity at a
given orbital location is used each day to provide DBS service.

     The FCC recently initiated a rulemaking which seeks to streamline and
revise its rules governing DBS.  This rulemaking proposes, or inquires about,
many new possible DBS rules, including, among other things, changes to the DBS
geographic coverage requirement and DBS cross-ownership rules.  The FCC has
proposed tightening its geographic coverage requirements for Alaska and Hawaii,
and has asked for comment on whether similar geographic service requirements
should be made for Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories and possessions. 
Moreover, the FCC has requested comment on whether it should adopt rules to
limit DBS ownership and/or cross ownership with cable operators and other
entities.  The FCC has not adopted final rules pursuant to this new DBS
rulemaking, and there is no assurance about the content and effect of any rules
to be adopted.




     The ITU has allotted to the U.S. eight DBS orbital slots, each with 32
frequency channels, for use by U.S. licensed DBS providers.  The FCC has
indicated its belief that only the 101DEG.  West Longitude ("WL"), 110DEG.  WL
and 119DEG.  WL slots provide full-CONUS coverage and, therefore these three
slots are considered the most strategic orbital slots.  DBS licenses issued by
the FCC generally are for an initial period of ten years.  At the expiration of
the initial license term, the FCC may renew the satellite operator's license or
authorize the operator to operate for a period of time on special authority, but
there can be no assurance that the FCC will take such actions.  In the event the
FCC declines to renew the operator's license, the operator would be required to
cease operations and the frequencies would revert to the FCC.  EchoStar also
requires FCC authority to operate earth stations, including the earth stations
necessary to uplink programming to its satellites.  

     The following summarizes EchoStar's DBS authorizations (including pending
requests not yet granted by the FCC): 


 (1) Includes ten frequencies at 175DEG.  WL and one frequency at 166DEG.  WL
     that EchoStar may be assigned if the FCC finds that EchoStar has a firm
     satellite construction contract and its permit for 11 unassigned western
     frequencies should be extended.  There can be no assurance in this regard.
     EchoStar has not yet developed a business plan for the 175DEG.  WL orbital
     slot, which has limited utility for service to the continental U.S. 

     EchoStar has a license for 11 frequencies at 61.5DEG.  WL, which is capable
of providing service to a majority of the continental U.S.  Beginning in January
1998, EchoStar began using 11 transponders on EchoStar III to broadcast DISH
Network and Satellite Services programming using its 11 frequencies at 61.5DEG. 
WL.  Certain of EchoStar's frequencies at 61.5DEG.  are being used to provide
local broadcast network signals to consumers, subject to existing regulations.  

     On January 28, 1998, the International Bureau of the FCC (the
"International Bureau") conditionally granted the application of EchoStar's
Direct Broadcasting Satellite Corporation's subsidiary ("DBSC") for a license to
operate its 11 assigned channels at 61.5DEG. WL.  EchoStar's request for an STA
(short-term authority) to operate temporarily the remaining 21 channels at
61.5DEG. WL is pending before the FCC.  There can be no assurance that this
request will be granted.  EchoStar also has filed applications for authority to
operate earth station antennas for tracking, telemetry and control ("TT&C") and
feeder link communications with EchoStar III. 

     The FCC has granted Dominion Video Satellite, Inc. ("Dominion") a
conditional construction permit and related rights to eight frequencies at
61.5DEG.  WL, the same orbital location where EchoStar III is located.  Dominion
and certain EchoStar subsidiaries are parties to an agreement (the "Dominion
Agreement") pursuant to which Dominion, subject to appropriate FCC approvals,
has the right to use eight transponders on EchoStar III to exploit the Dominion
frequencies.  Additionally, the Dominion Agreement provided that until EchoStar
III was operational, Dominion could use one full transponder on an EchoStar
satellite located at 119DEG.  WL by paying EchoStar $1 million per month.  From
December 1996 through April 1997, in consideration of the use of such
transponder for a period of five months, Dominion issued five $1 million
promissory notes to EchoStar, each due May 10, 1997.  When Dominion did not
repay these notes, EchoStar exercised its right under the Dominion Agreement,
subject to obtaining any necessary FCC approvals, to use and program, for the
expected life of the satellite, six of the eight transponders on EchoStar III
that Dominion has the right to use and that would operate on frequency channels
assigned to Dominion.  Dominion has pending FCC applications to modify its
permit to rely on the Dominion Agreement to satisfy its due diligence and to
extend its permit, which was set to expire.  The FCC has not acted on these
applications, and there can be no assurance that it will act favorably on either
application.  The Dominion Agreement also may require further FCC approval. 
Assuming necessary FCC approvals are obtained and any further required approvals
(including any required transfer of 




control approvals) are obtained, EchoStar would have the right to use a total 
of up to 17 transponders on EchoStar III. There can be no assurance that these 
approvals will be obtained.  

     EchoStar also has licenses covering 21 channels at 119DEG. WL.  Pursuant
to these licenses, EchoStar is using 11 of the 16 transponders on EchoStar I and
ten of the 16 transponders on EchoStar II to transmit DISH Network and Satellite
Services programming to the continental U.S. from the 119DEG.  WL orbital slot. 
In July 1997, EchoStar filed a request for an STA to use the 11 channels
assigned to Tempo at the 119DEG.  WL orbital location, on the grounds that
Tempo, while it launched a satellite to that location in March 1997, has not yet
started providing service.  Tempo has opposed this request on several grounds,
including that it is currently testing its satellite.  There can be no assurance
that the FCC will grant EchoStar's request.

     During January 1996, EchoStar submitted the winning bid of $52.3 million
for a DBS construction permit for the use of 24 frequencies at the 148DEG.  WL
orbital slot.  EchoStar is currently required by the FCC to complete
construction of a satellite by December 20, 2000, and that satellite must be in
operation by December 20, 2002.  Pending before the FCC are requests to modify
that permit, substitute a more expedited schedule for deployment of satellites
at that slot, and extend certain other EchoStar permits, as further described
below.

     EchoStar holds FCC permits for 22 frequencies at 175DEG.  WL.  EchoStar has
an application pending before the FCC to extend these permits, which are
currently set to expire in November 1998 and August 1999, to December 2002 (as
further described below).  EchoStar also has a permit for 11 unassigned western
frequencies but the FCC has not yet decided whether EchoStar satisfied its due
diligence requirements with respect to that permit or whether that permit, which
was to have expired in August 1995, should be extended.  While a firm business
plan has not yet been completed, EchoStar's frequencies at 175DEG.  WL could be
used to provide a high power DBS service to the western continental U.S., Hawaii
and Alaska.  These frequencies also could provide a satellite programming link
between the U.S. and the Pacific Rim, if FCC and ITU coordination can be
arranged and authorizations in the receiving countries obtained.  In the event
that the FCC does not approve EchoStar's request to extend these permits, it is
reasonably possible that the FCC could revoke EchoStar's permits for 22
frequencies at 175DEG.  WL.  Further, it is reasonably possible that EchoStar
could lose its permits for 11 unassigned western frequencies.  In a recent FCC
rulemaking, the FCC has indicated its willingness to hold an auction for any
unassigned or forfeited frequencies.  Thus, if EchoStar were to lose its permits
at the 175DEG.  WL orbital location, it may be required to participate in an
auction in order to retain these frequencies.

     The FCC has granted EchoStar conditional authority to use C-band
frequencies for TT&C functions for EchoStar I, stating that the required
coordination process with Canada and Mexico has been completed.  In
January 1996, the FCC received a communication from an official of the Ministry
of Communications and Transportation of Mexico stating that EchoStar I's TT&C
operations could cause unacceptable interference to Mexican satellites.  While
EchoStar believes that it is unlikely that the FCC will subsequently require
EchoStar to relinquish the use of such C-band frequencies for TT&C purposes,
such relinquishment could result in the inability to control EchoStar I and the
total loss of the satellite.  

     During January 1996, the International Bureau extended the construction
permit of DirectSat to August 15, 1999.  This grant was subject to the condition
that DirectSat make significant progress toward construction and operation of
its DBS system substantially in compliance with the timetable submitted pursuant
to an amendment of its satellite construction contract, dated June 17, 1995, or
with a more expedited timetable.  The International Bureau also urged DirectSat
to expedite construction and launch of additional satellites for its DBS system.
PrimeStar has filed an application for review requesting that the FCC reverse
the International Bureau's decision to extend DirectSat's construction permit. 
In September 1996, the International Bureau granted DirectSat's request for
authority to launch the EchoStar II satellite to 118.8DEG.  WL and for approval
of certain modifications made to the design of that satellite.  In a separate
order issued on the same date, the International Bureau granted DirectSat
conditional authority to use extended C-band frequencies to perform TT&C
functions for the EchoStar II satellite until January 1, 1999, subject to the
condition that it cause no harmful interference to other satellites, at which
time the FCC will review the suitability of those frequencies for TT&C
operations.  There can be no assurance that the FCC will extend the
authorization to use these C-band frequencies for TT&C purposes.  The FCC's
refusal to extend such authorization could result in the inability to control
EchoStar II and a total loss of the satellite unless the satellite could be
moved to another orbital slot with FCC approval.




     A request by EchoStar for authority to launch EchoStar IV to the 119DEG.
WL location and relocate EchoStar I to 148DEG. WL is pending before the FCC. 
Also pending before the FCC is EchoStar's request to change the operation
milestone dates of DBSC (from November 1998 to December 2002), and DirectSat
(from August 1999, as formerly requested, to December 2002) at the 175DEG.  WL
location.  Under the same request, the operation milestone date for 16 of the 24
channels licensed to EchoStar at 148DEG.  WL also would be accelerated to
November 1998.  Two parties, Tempo and TelQuest Ventures, Inc. ("TelQuest") have
opposed one or both of the applications and the State of Hawaii has requested
that the FCC impose certain conditions prior to approval.  There can be no
assurance that the FCC will grant any of these requests or that, if it grants
any of these requests, it will do so on a timely basis.  Failure to grant any of
these requests might result in inefficient deployment of EchoStar's satellite
fleet and/or loss of one of more of EchoStar's authorizations for western
channels.  Communications with EchoStar IV at 119DEG. WL and EchoStar I at
148DEG.  WL also require certain earth station authorizations.  EchoStar has
filed, or intends to file, applications for such authorizations.

     In the event of a failure or loss of EchoStar I, EchoStar II or
EchoStar III, and subject to FCC consent, EchoStar may relocate EchoStar IV and
utilize that satellite as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite.  Such
a relocation would require prior FCC approval and, among other things, a showing
to the FCC that EchoStar IV would not cause additional interference compared to
EchoStar I, EchoStar II or EchoStar III.  Should EchoStar choose to utilize
EchoStar IV in this manner, there can be no assurance that such use would not
adversely affect EchoStar's ability to meet the construction, launch and
operation deadlines associated with its permits.  Failure to meet such deadlines
could result in the loss of such permits and would have an adverse effect on
EchoStar's planned operations.

     EchoStar's FCC permits are conditioned on satisfaction of ongoing due
diligence, construction, reporting and related obligations.  There can be no
assurance that EchoStar will be able to comply with the FCC's due diligence
obligations or that the FCC will determine that it has complied with such due
diligence obligations.  EchoStar's permits and extension requests have been, and
may continue to be, contested in FCC proceedings and in court by several
companies with interests adverse to those of EchoStar.

   FSS KA-BAND, KU-BAND AND EXTENDED KU-BAND PERMITS

     EchoStar has been granted a license for a two-satellite FSS Ka-band system.
That license was based on an orbital plan agreed upon by applicants in
EchoStar's processing round.  Certain of these applicants have now requested
changes to that orbital plan.  One company has requested a stay of the plan, and
petitions for reconsideration are pending against certain of the licenses
covered by the plan.  There can be no assurance that review of the recently
granted Ka-band licenses and orbital plan by the International Bureau and the
full FCC will not eliminate the basis for EchoStar's conditional license and
result in loss of that license.  In the event that EchoStar does not commence
construction of its Ka-band satellites by the applicable milestone dates, or
receive an extension of its milestone dates from the FCC, it is reasonably
possible that the FCC could revoke EchoStar's Ka-band license.

     In October 1997, the FCC released service rules applicable to Ka-band
licensees.  Among other things, the rules impose various technical requirements
and restrictions, including the obligation to protect or coordinate with certain
types of services and power control requirements.  The FCC also imposed
implementation milestones, including commencement of construction within one
year of grant, commencement of construction of a second satellite within two
years of grant, launch of first satellite within five years of grant, and launch
of all satellites by the dates required by the ITU generally six years from
filing of the ITU "Appendix 4" information (which was filed in November 1995),
with the possibility of a three-year extension.  The FCC noted that EchoStar
proposes to operate its system on a common carrier basis.  Further, the FCC
prohibited trafficking in "bare" Ka-band licenses.  The FCC also imposed annual
reporting requirements.  There can be no assurance that these new rules will not
adversely affect EchoStar's plans with respect to its licensed Ka-band system.  

     In November 1996, EchoStar was granted conditional authorization for two
Ku-band FSS satellites to be located at 83DEG.  WL and 121DEG.  WL, subject,
among other things, to submitting additional proof of its financial
qualifications (the "ESC License"). EchoStar also has applied for authority to
modify this system to add C-band capabilities to one satellite.  In December
1996, PrimeStar and GE American Communications, Inc. ("GE Americom") separately
filed petitions for reconsideration of the ESC License and the reassignment of
one EchoStar satellite to a different orbital slot on the grounds that the
satellite in dispute will interfere with the GE Americom satellite used by
PrimeStar for its medium-power Ku-band service.  If the FCC were to grant these
petitions, the satellite in dispute may 




be reassigned to another orbital location or it may become subject to 
significant limitations on its power. While EchoStar Satellite Corporation 
("ESC"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of ECC, has submitted proof of 
its financial qualifications, PrimeStar and GE Americom have challenged it, 
and in March 1997 separately filed petitions to cancel the ESC License on the 
grounds that the supplemental financial information provided by ESC is not 
adequate.  If the FCC were to grant these petitions, ESC would lose the ESC 
License.  Finally, PrimeStar and GE Americom have opposed ESC's request for 
authorization to add C-band capabilities to one satellite of its Ku-band 
system by separately filing petitions (in March 1997) to deny ESC's 
application on similar grounds set forth in their petitions outlined above.  
If the FCC were to grant these petitions, ESC would not obtain the requested 
authorization to add C-band capabilities to one of its satellites. There can 
be no assurance as to how the FCC will rule with respect to any of these 
challenges.  While EchoStar has not finalized a business plan that 
incorporates use of this spectrum and is not relying on this spectrum for the 
generation of future revenues, if the FCC were to rule against EchoStar, a 
potential future business opportunity would be lost.  

     In August 1997, GE Americom filed an application requesting modification of
its license for a C-band/Ku-band satellite currently located at 89DEG.  WL, to
allow relocation of that satellite to 83DEG.  WL.  In support of that request,
GE Americom has argued that the license for that satellite is set to expire
before EchoStar's FSS satellite is expected to be launched to that location. 
EchoStar has opposed the modification application, but has stated that it would
not oppose a request for temporary relocation of GE's satellite to that slot on
an STA basis.

     EchoStar also has an application pending with the FCC for two extended
Ku-band FSS satellites to be located at 85DEG.  WL and 91DEG.  WL. 

     If EchoStar successfully constructs and launches Ku-band, extended Ku-band,
and Ka-band satellites, those satellites might be used to complement the DISH
Network, or for a variety of other uses.  It is possible that the unique FSS
Ku-band and Ka-band orbital locations requested by EchoStar and others could
permit construction of satellites with sufficient power to allow reception of
satellite signals by relatively small dishes.  As these projects are in the
early stages of development and are currently being challenged by several
companies with interests adverse to those of EchoStar, there can be no assurance
that EchoStar's applications will be granted by the FCC or that, if granted,
EchoStar will be able to successfully capitalize on any resulting business
opportunities.  

   OTHER PERMITS

     An 80% owned subsidiary of EchoStar has applied for authority to construct,
launch and operate a six-satellite, low-earth orbit ("Little LEO") system.  This
application (and amendment thereto) has been opposed.  While the services made
possible by a Little LEO system are unrelated to DBS, it is possible that the
system could serve as a path for wireless communication with EchoStar's DBS
customers, particularly for periodic polling of units for pay-per-view purchases
and relatively rapid feedback on viewer pay-per-view buy rates and preferences. 
This project is in an early stage of development and there can be no assurance
that EchoStar's application will be granted by the FCC or that, if granted,
EchoStar will be able to successfully capitalize on any resulting business
opportunity.

     Among other regulatory requirements, all of EchoStar's DBS systems are
required to conform to the ITU Region 2 Plan for Broadcast Satellite Service
(the "BSS Plan").  Any operations that are not consistent with the BSS Plan
(including, among other things, the EchoStar DBS System's digital transmissions)
only can be authorized on a non-interference basis pending successful
modification of the BSS Plan or the agreement of all affected administrations to
the non-conforming operations.  Accordingly, unless and until the BSS Plan is
modified to include the technical parameters of a DBS applicant's operations,
non-standard satellites must not cause harmful electrical interference to, and
are not entitled to any protection from, interference caused by other
assignments that are in conformance with the BSS Plan.  All of EchoStar's
satellites require modifications of the ITU plan to be entitled to such
protection.  The ITU has requested certain technical information in order to
process the requested modification of the BSS plan for EchoStar I and EchoStar
II, and EchoStar has cooperated, and continues to cooperate, with the FCC in the
preparation of its responses to any ITU requests.  The Company cannot predict
when the ITU will act upon these requests for modification or if these requests
will be granted.

     EchoStar owns a 49% non-voting, minority interest in ALTA Wireless, Inc.
("ALTA"), a Denver-based wireless communications company which is one of 138
companies currently participating in the local multipoint distribution service
("LMDS") spectrum auction.  LMDS frequencies could potentially be used to
provide a variety of 




video, data and voice services and may provide EchoStar with another method 
for delivery of local broadcast network channels to DISH Network subscribers.  
There can be no assurance that ALTA will submit the winning bid for any LMDS 
frequencies, or that EchoStar would be able to successfully capitalize on any 
resulting business opportunities.

     Failure to comply with applicable Communications Act requirements and FCC
rules, regulations, policies, and orders may result in the FCC's revoking,
conditioning, or declining to review or extend an authorization.  

   OTHER REGULATION

     FOREIGN OWNERSHIP LIMITATIONS.  The Communications Act, as amended, and the
FCC's implementing regulations provide that, where subsidiaries of a holding
company hold certain types of FCC licenses, foreign nationals or their
representatives may not own in excess of 25% of the total equity of the holding
company, considered on a fully-diluted basis, except upon an FCC public interest
determination.  While the FCC's International Bureau has ruled that these
limitations do not apply to DBS authorizations, the ruling has been challenged
and the question remains open.  Indeed, the FCC's recent proposed rulemaking on
DBS matters has invited comment on this question.  Furthermore, the limitations
will apply to EchoStar's FSS authorizations if EchoStar holds itself out as a
common carrier or if the FCC decides to treat it as such a carrier.  The FCC has
noted that EchoStar proposes to operate some of its proposed fixed satellite
services on a common carrier as well as a non-common carrier basis.  

     A recent survey of EchoStar's equity owners discloses that EchoStar's
foreign ownership in December 1997 was under 5%, well below these limitations,
if they were to apply.  However, if the purchase by foreign nationals or their
representatives of EchoStar's existing or new equity securities or exercise of
any right to convert existing or new securities, would cause the foreign
ownership limitations to be exceeded, a separate FCC determination that such
ownership was consistent with the public interest would be required in order to
avoid a violation of the Act and/or the FCC's rules.  

     THE 1996 ACT.  The 1996 Act clarifies that the FCC has exclusive
jurisdiction over DTH satellite services and that criminal penalties may be
imposed for piracy of DTH satellite services.  The 1996 Act also offers DBS
operators relief from private and local government-imposed restrictions on the
placement of receiving antennae.  In some instances, DBS operators have been
unable to serve areas due to laws, zoning ordinances, homeowner association
rules, or restrictive property covenants banning the installation of antennae on
or near homes.  The FCC recently promulgated rules designed to implement
Congress' intent by prohibiting any restriction, including zoning, land use or
building regulation, or any private covenant, homeowners' association rule, or
similar restriction on property within the exclusive use or control of the
antenna user where the user has a direct or indirect ownership interest in the
property, to the extent it impairs the installation, maintenance or use of a DBS
receiving antenna that is one meter or less in diameter or diagonal measurement,
except where such restriction is necessary to accomplish a clearly defined
safety objective or to preserve a recognized historic district.  Local
governments and associations may apply to the FCC for a waiver of this
rule based on local concerns of a highly specialized or unusual nature.  The FCC
also issued a further notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comment on whether
the 1996 Act applies to restrictions on property not within the exclusive use or
control of the viewer and in which the viewer has no direct or indirect property
interest.  The 1996 Act also preempted local (but not state) governments from
imposing taxes or fees on DTH services, including DBS.  Finally, the 1996 Act
required that multichannel video programming distributors such as DBS operators
fully scramble or block channels providing indecent or sexually explicit adult
programming.  If a multi-channel video programming distributor cannot fully
scramble or block such programming, it must restrict transmission to those hours
of the day when children are unlikely to view the programming (as determined by
the FCC).

     THE CABLE ACT.  In addition to regulating pricing practices and competition
within the cable television industry, the Cable Act was intended to establish
and support existing and new providers of subscription television services, such
as wireless cable and DBS.  EchoStar has benefited from the programming access
provisions of the Cable Act, in that it has been able to gain access to
previously unavailable programming services and, in some circumstances, has
obtained certain programming services at reduced cost.  Any amendment to, or
interpretation of, the Cable Act or the FCC's rules that would permit cable
companies or entities affiliated with cable companies to discriminate against
competitors such as EchoStar in making programming available (or to discriminate
in the terms and conditions of such availability) could adversely affect
EchoStar's ability to acquire programming on a cost-effective basis.  Certain of
the restrictions on cable-affiliated programmers will expire in 2002 unless the
FCC extends such restrictions.




     In October 1997, EchoStar filed a program access complaint with the FCC
against Fox/Liberty Networks LLC, Fox Sports Net LLC and Fox Sports Direct
(collectively "Fox Sports"), which controls certain regional sports programming
services currently carried by EchoStar.  In that complaint, EchoStar alleged
that Fox Sports has discriminated against EchoStar in the terms that it offered
EchoStar, compared to the terms available to certain competing cable operators. 
Fox Sports has answered EchoStar's complaint asserting several defenses.  There
can be no assurance that EchoStar will be successful in its complaint and/or
that EchoStar will attain better terms for its carriage of Fox Sports
programming than the terms currently available to EchoStar.  The inability of
EchoStar to secure better terms may adversely affect EchoStar's relationship
with Fox Sports.  

     In November 1997, EchoStar filed a program access complaint against
Fox/Liberty Networks LLC and fX Networks LLC (collectively for purposes of this
paragraph, "fX").  EchoStar has alleged that fX has unlawfully refused to
provide programming to EchoStar citing exclusive agreements with certain cable
operators.  fX has contested EchoStar's complaint.  There can be no assurance
that EchoStar will be successful in its complaint or that the FCC will grant
EchoStar any of the requested forms of relief.  If unsuccessful, EchoStar will
continue to be unable to offer fX's programming.

     EchoStar and Rainbow Programming Holdings, Inc. and Rainbow Media Holdings,
Inc. (collectively, "Rainbow") recently settled a program access complaint that
EchoStar had filed against Rainbow.  That settlement will allow EchoStar access
to regional sports and other programming controlled by Rainbow.

     The FCC recently initiated a rulemaking proceeding where it is considering
certain changes to its program access rules.  There can be no assurance that any
changes that may result from this rulemaking will be favorable to EchoStar's
position.

     The Cable Act also requires the FCC to conduct a rulemaking that will
impose public interest requirements for providing video programming by DBS
licensees, including, at a minimum, reasonable and non-discriminatory access by
qualified candidates for election to public office and the obligation to set
aside four to seven percent of the licensee's channel capacity for
non-commercial programming of an educational or informational nature.  Within
this set-aside requirement, DBS providers must make capacity available to
"national educational programming suppliers" at below-cost rates.  The FCC is
conducting a rulemaking to implement this statutory provision.  

     Since DBS operators have not historically carried local broadcast network
programming on their satellites, DBS operators currently are not subject to the
"must carry" requirements of the Cable Act.  The cable industry has argued that,
DBS operators should be subject to these requirements if they provide local
broadcast network programming.  In the event the "must carry" requirements of
the Cable Act are revised to include DBS operators, or to the extent that new
legislation of a similar nature is enacted, EchoStar's future plans to provide
local programming will be adversely affected, and such "must-carry" requirements
could cause the displacement of possibly more attractive programming.  Two bills
currently pending in Congress would impose must-carry obligations on satellite
carriers.

     SATELLITE HOME VIEWER ACT.  The Satellite Home Viewer Act  ("SHVA")
establishes a "statutory" (or compulsory) copyright license that generally
allows a DBS operator, for a statutorily-established fee, to retransmit local
affiliate programming to subscribers for private home viewing so long as that
retransmission is limited to those persons in "unserved households." An
"unserved household," with respect to a particular television network, is
defined as one that cannot receive an over-the-air network signal of "grade B"
intensity (a predictive standard of signal intensity employed by the FCC) of a
primary network station affiliated with that network through the use of a
conventional outdoor rooftop antenna and has not, within the 90 days prior to
subscribing to the DBS service, subscribed to a cable service that provides the
signal of an affiliate of that network.  While management believes the SHVA
could be read to allow the Company to retransmit this programming to certain
local markets via DBS satellite, management also believes that the compulsory
copyright license under the SHVA may not be sufficient to permit the Company to
implement its strategy to retransmit such programming in the most efficient and
comprehensive manner.  Several influential interest groups, including the NAB,
have expressed opposition to certain aspects of EchoStar's Local Strategy.  To
the extent that these interest groups are successful in their lobbying efforts,
EchoStar's ability to fully execute its Local Strategy may be adversely
affected.  In August 1997, a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel ("CARP"),
appointed to recommend royalties for satellite retransmission of network-
affiliated television and superstation signals pursuant to the compulsory
license of Section 119 of the Copyright Act, delivered its Report to the
Librarian of Congress.  In the CARP's recommendation, the CARP held it has no
jurisdiction to set royalties for local 




satellite retransmissions of the signals of network-affiliated television 
stations, on the grounds that the compulsory license of the Copyright Act does 
not extend to such retransmissions.  EchoStar petitioned the Librarian to 
modify the CARP report.  The CARP also recommended setting at zero the royalty 
rate for local retransmissions of superstation signals.  

     The final ruling of the Librarian of Congress, reviewing the CARP's
recommendation, was published in the FEDERAL REGISTER in October 1997.  With
respect to "local-into-local" retransmissions, the Librarian affirmed the zero
rate recommended by the CARP for secondary transmission of a superstation signal
within the station's local market, a recommendation that EchoStar had supported.

     The Librarian modified the CARP's recommendation by also establishing a
zero rate for secondary transmissions of a network station's signal to "unserved
households" within the station's local market.  The Librarian of Congress also
reviewed the CARP's recommendation on the meaning of "unserved households"
(i.e., whether the statutory license covers retransmissions to a household in a
network station's local market receiving a signal of Grade B intensity from that
station but not from any other affiliate of the same network and satisfying all
other elements of the "unserved household" definition).  The CARP had determined
that the statutory license does not cover such retransmissions and the CARP did
not have jurisdiction to recommend a rate for them.  The Librarian decided that
the law is silent on the issue, and accordingly, it cannot unequivocally say
that the CARP's decision is arbitrary or contrary to law.  Nonetheless, the
Librarian determined that the Copyright Office retains the authority to conduct
a rule-making proceeding despite the CARP's determination, on the permissibility
of secondary transmissions of a network station's signal to households within
that station's local market that are served by that station but unserved by any
other station affiliated with the same network under the "unserved household"
provisions of the satellite compulsory license.  In December 1997, EchoStar
petitioned the Copyright Office for a rulemaking on the permissibility of such
retransmissions.  In response to the Petition, the Copyright Office initiated a
rulemaking on this matter in January 1998.  There can be no assurance that this
rulemaking will result in an interpretation of the law that is favorable to
EchoStar.

     EchoStar is continuing its effort to secure passage of legislation that
will clarify and extend the scope of the compulsory license with respect to
local network signals to protect against the possibility the Copyright Office's
rulemaking may not provide a favorable result to EchoStar.  There can be no
assurance that EchoStar will be successful in this effort.  While EchoStar has
made an effort to ensure the lawfulness of its offerings under the copyright and
retransmission consent rules, there can be no assurance that it will not be
challenged in court or that EchoStar will prevail in case of such challenge.  If
a court or administrative agency were to reject the interpretation of "unserved
household" supported by EchoStar, and legislation does not pass which clarifies
and extends the scope of the compulsory license, EchoStar may have to engage in
the relatively cumbersome process of obtaining copyright licenses from all
individual copyright holders instead.  In the absence of the legislation sought
by EchoStar and/or a favorable outcome in the rulemaking referenced in the
Librarian's final ruling, and failing successful negotiation of individual
copyright licenses and retransmission consent agreements to the extent
necessary, there can be no assurance that EchoStar would be successful in any
copyright infringement or FCC litigation with copyright owners and/or
broadcasters regarding the legality of certain local-into-local network
retransmissions.  

     Subject to the foregoing considerations, EchoStar intends to offer local
programming, including local network programming, to certain population centers
within the continental U.S. In order to retransmit local programming into a
market, EchoStar generally must obtain the retransmission consent of the local
stations, except for direct to home retransmissions to "unserved households," as
this term is defined in the SHVA (see above), in addition to any requisite
copyright licenses.  There can be no assurance that EchoStar will obtain the
retransmission consents of any local affiliate, and one of the networks (Fox)
has stated it is not willing to consider EchoStar's request for retransmission
consent at this time.  EchoStar's ability to transmit local programming via
satellite into the markets from which the programming is generated may attract
incremental subscribers who would not otherwise be willing to purchase satellite
systems.  Beginning in January 1998, EchoStar started offering local programming
to certain subscribers in certain metropolitan areas.  

     In addition, in its August 1997 report, the CARP recommended that the
royalty rate for satellite retransmissions of distant network-affiliated station
and distant superstation signals be set at 27 cents per subscriber per month, a
substantial increase compared to the previously applicable rates, which ranged
from six to 17.5 cents per subscriber per month. 




     The final ruling of the Librarian of Congress, reviewing the CARP's
recommendation, was published in the FEDERAL REGISTER in October 1997.  The
Librarian, among other things, affirmed the CARP's recommendation of a 27 cent
per subscriber per month royalty rate for retransmissions of distant
superstation and network station signals, but delayed the effective date for the
increase to January 1, 1998 (instead of making the increase retroactive, as the
CARP had recommended).  Review of the Librarian's ruling is currently pending on
appeal in the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.  EchoStar believes that it
may be able to pass through these increases to its customers by separately
tiering the channels involved, so that its operating margins are not
substantially affected.  However, the increases may adversely affect the
competitiveness of EchoStar vis-a-vis cable operators, which pay lower rates to
copyright holders.  

     EXPORT REGULATION.  From time to time, EchoStar requires import licenses
and general destination export licenses to receive and deliver components of DTH
systems.  EchoStar has contracted with LKE for the launch of EchoStar IV from
the Republic of Kazakhstan.  Satellite export licenses were obtained from the
Department of Commerce for the transport of EchoStar IV to the Republic of
Kazakhstan.  Lockheed Martin also obtained technical data exchange licenses from
the Department of Commerce permitting the exchange between Lockheed Martin and
LKE of certain information necessary to prepare EchoStar IV for launch.  While
it is not expected, these licenses could be suspended or revoked if relations
between the United States and Russia were to deteriorate prior to the launch of
EchoStar IV, significantly delaying and increasing the cost to launch EchoStar
IV.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

     EchoStar uses a number of trademarks for its products and services,
including "EchoStar-Registered Trademark-," "DISH Network-TM-," "DISH 
Network-SM-," "America's Top 40," "America's Top 50 CD," "America's Top 60" and 
others.  Certain of these trademarks are registered by EchoStar, and those 
trademarks that are not registered are generally protected by common law and 
state unfair competition laws.  Although EchoStar believes that these trademarks
are not essential to EchoStar's business, EchoStar has taken affirmative legal 
steps to protect its trademarks in the past and intends to actively protect 
these trademarks in the future.  

     EchoStar is the assignee of certain patents for products and product
components manufactured and sold by EchoStar, none of which EchoStar considers
to be significant to its continuing operations.  In addition, EchoStar has
obtained and, although no assurance can be given, expects to obtain, licenses
for certain patents necessary for the manufacture and sale by EchoStar and
others of DBS receivers and related components.  EchoStar has been notified that
certain features of the EchoStar Receiver System allegedly infringe on patents
held by others, and that royalties are therefore required to be paid.  EchoStar
is investigating these infringement allegations and, if appropriate, intends to
vigorously defend against any suit filed by the parties.  There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to successfully defend any suit, if
brought, or that the Company will be able to obtain a license for any patent
that might be required.  See "-LEGAL PROCEEDINGS." 

EMPLOYEES

     EchoStar had 1,930 employees at December 31, 1997, of which 1,865 worked in
EchoStar's domestic operations and 65 of which worked in EchoStar's
international operations.  EchoStar is not a party to any collective bargaining
agreement and considers its relations with its employees to be good.  EchoStar
intends to hire additional personnel as required.



                                       
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        (FURNISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITEM 401 (b) OF REGULATION S-K,
              PURSUANT TO GENERAL INSTRUCTION G(3) OF FORM 10-K)

     The following table sets forth the name, age and offices with EchoStar of
each executive officer of EchoStar, the period during which each executive
officer has served as such, and each executive officer's business experience
during the past five years: 


     CHARLES W. ERGEN.  Mr. Ergen has been Chairman of the Board of Directors,
Chief Executive Officer and President of EchoStar since its formation and,
during the past five years, has held various executive officer positions with
EchoStar's subsidiaries.  Mr. Ergen, along with his spouse and James DeFranco,
was a co-founder of EchoStar in 1980.  Commencing in March 1995, Mr. Ergen also
became a director of SSET, a company principally engaged in the manufacture and
sale of satellite telecommunications equipment.  

     JAMES DEFRANCO.  Mr. DeFranco, currently the Executive Vice President of
EchoStar, has been a Vice President and a Director of EchoStar since its
formation and, during the past five years, has held various executive officer
positions with EchoStar's subsidiaries.  Mr. DeFranco, along with Mr. Ergen and
Mr. Ergen's spouse, was a co-founder of EchoStar in 1980.  

     JOHN D. REARDON.  Mr. Reardon joined EchoStar in January 1998 as President
of the DISH Network.  From 1996 until joining EchoStar he served as President
and CEO of TCI Music.  During 1995, Mr. Reardon was President of TV Ventures,
Inc., a telecommunications consulting company.  From 1991 until he joined TV
Ventures, Inc., Mr. Reardon served as President and CEO of Zing Systems L.P. 
Zing Systems, L.P. is active in the development of interactive television.

     MICHAEL T. DUGAN.  Mr. Dugan is the President of EchoStar Technologies
Corporation (formerly Houston Tracker Systems, Inc).  In that capacity, Mr.
Dugan is responsible for, among other things, all engineering and manufacturing
operations at EchoStar.  Previously he was the Senior Vice President of the
Consumer Products Division of EchoStar.  Mr. Dugan has been with EchoStar since
1990.  

     STEVEN B. SCHAVER.  Mr. Schaver was named EchoStar's Chief Financial
Officer in February 1996.  In November 1996, Mr. Schaver also was named Chief
Operating Officer.  From November 1993 to February 1996, Mr. Schaver was the
Vice President of EchoStar's European and African operations.  From July 1992 to
November 1993, Mr. Schaver was the Director of Sales and Marketing for
EchoStar's largest Spanish customer, Internacional de Telecomunicaciones, S.A.
in Madrid, Spain.

     DAVID K. MOSKOWITZ.  Mr. Moskowitz is the Senior Vice President, Secretary
and General Counsel of EchoStar.  Mr. Moskowitz joined EchoStar in March 1990. 
Mr. Moskowitz is responsible for all legal affairs of EchoStar and its
subsidiaries.

     MARK W. JACKSON.  Mr. Jackson was named Senior Vice President, Satellite
Services, in December 1997.  From April 1993 to December 1997, Mr. Jackson
served as Vice President, Engineering.  From 1986 until he joined EchoStar in
1993, Mr. Jackson was the Director of Engineering at Tandon Corporation, Inc.,
which designs, manufacturers and sells personal computers.




     JOHN R. HAGER.  Mr. Hager has been Treasurer and Controller of EchoStar
since February 1997.  From August 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Hager was
Controller of American Telecasting, Inc., a national operator of multiple
wireless cable systems.  Previously, Mr. Hager was with the Denver office of
Ernst & Young from May 1984 until August 1993, most recently as Audit Senior
Manager.

     There are no family relationships among the executive officers and
directors of EchoStar or arrangements or understandings between any executive
officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was
selected as such.  Pursuant to the Bylaws of EchoStar, executive officers serve
at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  Executive officers of EchoStar are
elected annually to serve until their respective successors are elected and
qualified.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     The following table sets forth certain information concerning EchoStar's
properties:


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     On July 29, 1996, EchoStar Acceptance Corporation ("EAC"), Dish Network
Credit Corporation ("DNCC"), ESC and Echosphere Corporation (collectively,
"EchoStar Credit"), filed a civil action against Associates Investment
Corporation ("Associates") which is currently pending in the U.S. District Court
in the District of Colorado.  EchoStar Credit alleges that Associates, among
other things, breached its contract with EchoStar Credit pursuant to which
Associates agreed to finance the purchase of EchoStar Receiver Systems by
consumers.  EchoStar Credit alleges that Associates' refusal to finance certain
prospective consumers has resulted in the loss of prospective customers to
EchoStar's competitors.  In addition, EchoStar Credit alleges that the loss of
sales due to Associate's action forced EchoStar to lower the price on its
products.  Associates filed counterclaims against EAC for fraud and breach of
contract.  Associates seeks approximately $10.0 million by way of its
counterclaims.  EAC intends to vigorously defend against such counterclaims.  A
trial date has not yet been set.  It is too early in the litigation to make an
assessment of the probable outcome.
     
     Certain purchasers of C-band and DISH Network systems have filed actions in
various state courts in Alabama naming EchoStar, EAC or Echosphere Corporation
as a defendant and seeking actual and punitive damages.  Eleven lawsuits were
filed against EAC in the state of Alabama.  Eight of the suits involve EAC and
Household Retail Services, Inc. ("HRSI") and three suits involve EAC and Bank
One Dayton, N.A. ("Bank One").   All three of the EAC/Bank One cases recently
have been dismissed or are in the process of being dismissed against all
defendants including EAC.  Therefore, only the cases involving EAC and HRSI
remain pending.  In those cases, the plaintiffs in those suits allege that the
terms of the financing plan were misrepresented to them by the independent
retail dealers.  The plaintiffs allege that the dealers were the agents of EAC
and that EAC did not properly train the dealers.  Additional suits may be filed
or the plaintiffs' attorneys may attempt to certify a class and/or add
additional plaintiffs to the existing suits and seek exponentially greater
damages.  EAC denies liability and intends to vigorously defend against all
remaining claims, which include allegations of fraud and lending law violations.
While the actual damages claimed in each of these cases are not material,
EchoStar is aware that juries in Alabama have recently issued a number of
verdicts awarding substantial punitive damages on actual damage claims of less
than $10,000.




     EAC and HRSI entered into a Merchandise Financing Agreement in 1989 (the
"Merchant Agreement") pursuant to which HRSI acted as a consumer financing
source for the purchase of, among other things, satellite systems distributed by
Echosphere Corporation, a subsidiary of EchoStar, to consumers through EAC
dealers.  HRSI terminated the Merchant Agreement as of December 31, 1994. 
During February 1995, EAC and Echosphere (the "EAC Parties") filed suit against
HRSI.  The case is pending in U.S. District Court in Colorado (the "HRSI
Litigation").  The EAC parties have alleged, among other things, breach of
contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and wanton and willful conduct by HRSI
in connection with termination of the Merchant Agreement and related matters. 
The EAC parties are seeking damages in excess of $10.0 million.  HRSI's
counterclaims have been dismissed with prejudice.  Summary judgment motions have
been pending on all remaining issues since May 1996.  A trial date has not been
set.

     During February 1997, EchoStar and News announced an agreement (the "News
Agreement") pursuant to which, among other things, News agreed to acquire
approximately 50% of the outstanding capital stock of EchoStar.  News also
agreed to make available for use by EchoStar the DBS permit for 28 frequencies
at 110deg. WL purchased by MCI for over $682 million following a 1996 FCC
auction.  During late April 1997, substantial disagreements arose between the
parties regarding their obligations under the News Agreement.

     In May 1997, EchoStar filed a Complaint requesting that the Court confirm
EchoStar's position and declare that News is obligated pursuant to the News
Agreement to lend $200 million to EchoStar without interest and upon such other
terms as the Court orders.  EchoStar also filed a First Amended Complaint
significantly expanding the scope of the litigation, to include breach of
contract, failure to act in good faith, and other causes of action.  EchoStar
seeks specific performance of the News Agreement and damages, including lost
profits based on, among other things, a jointly prepared ten-year business plan
showing expected profits for EchoStar in excess of $10 billion based on
consummation of the transactions contemplated by the News Agreement.
     
     In June 1997, News filed an answer and counterclaims seeking unspecified
damages.  News' answer denies all of the material allegations in the First
Amended Complaint and asserts numerous defenses, including bad faith, misconduct
and failure to disclose material information on the part of EchoStar and its
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Charles W. Ergen.  The counterclaims, in
which News is joined by its subsidiary ASkyB, assert that EchoStar and Ergen
breached their agreements with News and failed to act and negotiate with News in
good faith.  EchoStar has responded to News' answer and denied the allegations
in their counterclaims.  EchoStar also has asserted various affirmative
defenses.  EchoStar intends to vigorously defend against the counterclaims. 
Discovery commenced on July 3, 1997 and depositions are currently being taken. 
The case has been set for trial commencing November 1998, but that date could be
postponed.  
     
     While EchoStar is confident of its position and believes it will ultimately
prevail, the litigation process could continue for many years and there can be
no assurance concerning the outcome of the litigation.

     EchoStar is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims which
arise in the ordinary course of its business.  In the opinion of management, the
amount of ultimate liability with respect to those actions will not materially
affect the financial position or results of operations of EchoStar.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          No items were submitted to a vote of security holders during the 
          fourth quarter of 1997.



                                       
                                   PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's Class A Common Stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol "DISH." The high and low closing sale prices of the Class A
Common Stock during 1996 and 1997 on the Nasdaq Stock Market (as reported by
Nasdaq) are set forth below:


     As of March 13, 1998, there were approximately 1,836 holders of record of
the EchoStar's Class A Common Stock, not including stockholders who beneficially
own Class A Common Stock held in nominee or street name.  As of March 13, 1998,
all 29,804,401 outstanding shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock were
held by Charles W.  Ergen, EchoStar's Chief Executive Officer.  There is
currently no trading market for EchoStar's Class B Common Stock.  

     EchoStar has never declared or paid any cash dividends on any class of its
common stock and does not expect to declare dividends on its common stock in the
foreseeable future.  Payment of any future dividends will depend upon the
earnings and capital requirements of EchoStar, EchoStar's debt facilities, and
other factors the Board of Directors considers appropriate.  EchoStar currently
intends to retain its earnings, if any, to support future growth and expansion. 
EchoStar's ability to declare dividends is affected by covenants in its debt
facilities that prohibit it from declaring dividends and EchoStar's subsidiaries
from transferring funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to
EchoStar.  See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES."




ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The selected consolidated financial data as of and for each of the five
years ended December 31, 1997 have been derived from, and are qualified by
reference to, EchoStar's, and its predecessor entities, Consolidated Financial
Statements which have been audited by Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public
accountants.  This data should be read in conjunction with EchoStar's
Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto for the three years
ended December 31, 1997, and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" included elsewhere in this Report.  



- --------------

(1)  Certain of EchoStar's subsidiaries operated under Subchapter S of the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and comparable 
     provisions of applicable state income tax laws, until December 31, 1993.  
     The net income for 1993 presented above is net of pro forma income taxes 
     of $7,846, determined as if EchoStar had been subject to corporate 
     Federal and state income taxes for those years.  Earnings per share has 
     been calculated and presented on a pro forma basis as if the shares of 
     EchoStar issued to reflect the December 31, 1993 reorganization were 
     outstanding for the year ended December 31, 1993.

(2)  The earnings (loss) per share amounts prior to 1997 have been restated as 
     required to comply with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
     ("FAS") No. 128, "Earnings Per Share."  For further discussion of 
     earnings (loss) per share and the impact of FAS No. 128, see Note 2 to 
     EchoStar's Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)  Earnings (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 
     (including amortization of subscriber acquisition costs of $16 million 
     and $122 million for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1997, 
     respectively) ("EBITDA") is a commonly used measure of performance in the 
     telecommunications industry.  However, EBITDA does not purport to 
     represent cash used by operating activities and should not be considered 
     in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in 
     accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(4)  Excludes restricted cash and marketable investment securities.




ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     ALL STATEMENTS CONTAINED HEREIN, AS WELL AS STATEMENTS MADE IN PRESS 
RELEASES AND ORAL STATEMENTS THAT MAY BE MADE BY ECHOSTAR OR BY OFFICERS, 
DIRECTORS OR EMPLOYEES OF ECHOSTAR ACTING ON ITS BEHALF, THAT ARE NOT 
STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL FACT CONSTITUTE "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS" WITHIN 
THE MEANING OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995.  SUCH 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS INVOLVE KNOWN AND UNKNOWN RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND 
OTHER FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE THE ACTUAL RESULTS OF ECHOSTAR TO BE 
MATERIALLY DIFFERENT FROM HISTORICAL RESULTS OR FROM ANY FUTURE RESULTS 
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. AMONG THE FACTORS 
THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY ARE THE FOLLOWING: THE 
UNAVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT CAPITAL ON SATISFACTORY TERMS TO FINANCE 
ECHOSTAR'S BUSINESS PLAN; INCREASED COMPETITION FROM CABLE, DBS, OTHER 
SATELLITE SYSTEM OPERATORS AND OTHER PROVIDERS OF SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION 
SERVICES; THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND COMPETITORS INTO THE 
SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION BUSINESS;  INCREASED SUBSCRIBER ACQUISITION COSTS AND 
SUBSCRIBER PROMOTION SUBSIDIES;  THE INABILITY OF ECHOSTAR TO OBTAIN 
NECESSARY SHAREHOLDER AND BONDHOLDER APPROVAL OF ANY STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS;  
THE INABILITY OF ECHOSTAR TO OBTAIN AND RETAIN NECESSARY AUTHORIZATIONS FROM 
THE FCC, THE OUTCOME OF ANY LITIGATION IN WHICH ECHOSTAR MAY BE INVOLVED;  
GENERAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS;  AND OTHER RISK FACTORS DESCRIBED 
FROM TIME TO TIME IN ECHOSTAR'S REPORTS FILED WITH THE SEC.  IN ADDITION TO 
STATEMENTS THAT EXPLICITLY DESCRIBE SUCH RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, READERS ARE 
URGED TO CONSIDER STATEMENTS THAT INCLUDE THE TERMS "BELIEVES," "BELIEF," 
"EXPECTS," "PLANS," "ANTICIPATES," "INTENDS" OR THE LIKE TO BE UNCERTAIN AND 
FORWARD-LOOKING.  ALL CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS MADE HEREIN SHOULD BE READ AS 
BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER THEY APPEAR.  IN 
THIS CONNECTION, INVESTORS SHOULD CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED HEREIN.

OVERVIEW

     The operations of EchoStar include three interrelated business units:  
(i) the DISH Network; (ii) Technology; and (iii) Satellite Services.  
EchoStar's principal business strategy is to continue developing its 
subscription television service in the U.S. to provide consumers with a fully 
viable alternative to cable television service.           

     KEY OPERATING AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS.  As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar
had approximately 1,040,000 DISH Network subscribers, compared to 
approximately 350,000 subscribers at December 31, 1996.  During 1997, 
subscriber churn (which represents the number of subscriber disconnects 
during the period divided by the weighted-average number of subscribers 
during the period) approximated 1% per month.  EchoStar's subscriber 
acquisition costs (deferred subscriber acquisition costs, subscriber 
promotion subsidies and acquisition marketing expenses) approximated $252 
million in 1997.

     MARKETING PROMOTIONS.  During 1996, in order to stimulate subscriber 
growth, EchoStar made a strategic decision to reduce the price charged to 
consumers for EchoStar Receiver Systems.  Accordingly, beginning in August 
1996, EchoStar began selling its EchoStar Receiver Systems below its 
manufactured cost (the "1996, Promotion").  The 1996 Promotion lowered the 
suggested retail price charged by independent retailers for a standard 
EchoStar Receiver System to $199 (as compared to the original average retail 
price prior to August 1996 of approximately $499), conditioned upon the 
consumer's prepaid one-year subscription to the DISH Network's America's Top 
50 CD programming package for approximately $300.  Total transaction proceeds 
to EchoStar, which were less than its aggregate costs (equipment, programming 
and other) for the initial prepaid subscription period, were initially 
deferred and recognized as revenue over the related prepaid subscription 
period (normally one year).  During the period from August 1996 through May 
1997, substantially all new subscriber activations resulted from the 1996 
Promotion.

     During June 1997, EchoStar introduced the "1997 Promotion."  The 1997 
Promotion maintained the suggested retail price for a standard EchoStar 
Receiver System at $199, but eliminated the requirement for the coincident 
purchase of an extended subscription commitment.  Net transaction costs 
associated with the 1997 Promotion are expensed as incurred (reported as a 
component of subscriber promotion subsidies) in the accompanying statements 
of operations.  The majority of new subscriber activations have resulted from 
the 1997 Promotion since its introduction.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
     
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996.
     
     REVENUE.  Total revenue in 1997 was $477 million, an increase of 140%, 
or $278 million, as compared to total revenue of $199 million in 1996.  The 
increase in total revenue in 1997 was primarily attributable to the operation 
of the DISH Network during the entirety of 1997, combined with DISH Network 
subscriber growth.  EchoStar expects this trend to continue as the number of 
DISH Network subscribers increases, and as EchoStar develops its Technology 
and Satellite Services businesses.  Consistent with the increases in total 
revenue during 1997, EchoStar experienced a corresponding increase in trade 
accounts receivable at December 31, 1997.
     
     DISH Network subscription television services revenue totaled $299 
million during 1997, an increase of $249 million compared to 1996.  This 
increase was directly attributable to the operation of the DISH Network 
during the entirety of 1997, combined with the increase in the number of DISH 
Network subscribers.  Average monthly revenue per subscriber approximated $39 
during 1997 compared to approximately $36 in 1996.  The increase in monthly 
revenue per subscriber was primarily due to additional channels added upon 
commencement of operations of EchoStar II.  DISH Network subscription 
television services revenue consists primarily of revenue from basic, premium 
and pay-per-view subscription television services.  
     
     Other DISH Network revenue totaled $45 million in 1997, an increase of 
$35 million compared to 1996.  Other DISH Network revenue primarily consists 
of incremental revenues over advertised subscription rates realized from the 
1996 Promotion, as well as installation revenue and loan origination and 
participation income.  In 1997, EchoStar recognized incremental revenues 
related to the 1996 Promotion of approximately $40 million, an increase of 
$35 million over 1996.  EchoStar expects incremental revenue related to the 
1996 Promotion to decline at an accelerated rate in future periods and to 
cease during the third quarter of 1998.
     
     During 1997, DTH equipment sales and integration services totaled $92 
million.  EchoStar currently has agreements for the sale of digital satellite 
broadcasting equipment using EchoStar technology to two international DTH 
service operators.  EchoStar realized revenues of $74 million related to 
these agreements during 1997.  Of this amount, $59 million related to sales 
of digital set-top boxes and other DTH equipment while $15 million resulted 
from the provision of integration services (revenue from uplink center 
design, construction oversight, and other project integration services).  DBS 
accessory sales totaled $11 million during 1997, an $8 million increase 
compared to 1996.
     
     While EchoStar continues to actively pursue other distribution and 
integration service opportunities, no assurance can be given that any such 
additional negotiations will be successful.  EchoStar's future revenue from 
the sale of DTH equipment and integration services in international markets 
depends largely on the success of the DBS operator in that country, which, in 
turn, depends on other factors, such as the level of consumer acceptance of 
DBS products and the intensity of competition for international subscription 
television subscribers.  No assurance can be given regarding the level of 
expected future revenues which may be generated from EchoStar's alliances 
with foreign DTH operators.
     
     DTH equipment sales and integration services revenue totaled $78 million 
during 1996.  These revenues consisted primarily of sales of EchoStar 
Receiver Systems and related accessories prior to the August 1996 nationwide 
rollout of the 1996 Promotion. 
     
     Satellite services revenue totaled $11 million during 1997, an increase 
of $5 million, or 91%, compared to 1996.  These revenues include, among other 
things, fees charged to content providers for signal carriage and revenues 
earned from business television (BTV) customers for the broadcast of 
organizationally specific programming.  The increase in satellite services 
revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of content 
providers, increased usage by EchoStar's BTV customers, and an entire year of 
operation in 1997.
     
     Other revenue totaled $30 million for 1997, a decrease of $25 million 
compared to $55 million in 1996.  Other revenue principally related to 
domestic and international sales of C-band products and net domestic C-band 
programming revenues.  This decrease resulted from the world-wide decrease in 
demand for C-band products and services.  Effective January 1, 1998, EchoStar 
ceased operation of its C-band programming business.



     DISH NETWORK OPERATING EXPENSES.  DISH Network operating expenses 
totaled $193 million during 1997, an increase of $151 million as compared to 
1996.  The increase in DISH Network operating expenses was primarily 
attributable to operation of the DISH Network during the entirety of 1997 and 
 the increase in the number of DISH Network subscribers.  Subscriber-related 
expenses totaled $144 million in 1997, an increase of $121 million compared 
to 1996.  Such expenses, which include programming expenses, copyright 
royalties, residuals payable to retailers and distributors, and billing, 
lockbox and other variable subscriber expenses, totaled 48% of subscription 
television services revenues, compared to 46% of subscription television 
services revenues during 1996.  Satellite and transmission expenses are 
comprised primarily of costs associated with the operation of EchoStar's 
digital broadcast center, contracted satellite TT&C services, and costs of 
maintaining in-orbit insurance on EchoStar's DBS satellites.  Satellite and 
transmission expenses increased $8 million in 1997 compared to 1996 primarily 
as a result of the operation of the DISH Network (including EchoStar II) 
during the entirety of 1997.  Customer service center and other operating 
expenses consist primarily of costs incurred in the operation of EchoStar's 
DISH Network customer service center and expenses associated with subscriber 
equipment installation.  Customer service center and other operating expenses 
totaled $35 million in 1997, an increase of $22 million as compared to 1996.  
The increase in customer service center and other operating expenses was 
directly attributable to the operation of the DISH Network during the 
entirety of 1997, combined with the increase in the number of DISH Network 
subscribers.  EchoStar expects DISH Network operating expenses to continue to 
increase in the future as subscribers are added.  However, as its DISH 
Network subscriber base continues to expand, EchoStar expects that such costs 
as a percentage of DISH Network revenue will decline.
     
     COST OF SALES - DTH EQUIPMENT AND INTEGRATION SERVICES.  Cost of sales - 
DTH equipment and integration services totaled $62 million during 1997, a 
decrease of $14 million, or 19%, as compared to 1996.  During 1997, cost of 
sales - DTH equipment and integration services principally represented costs 
associated with set-top boxes and related components sold to international 
DTH operators.  For 1996, cost of sales - DTH equipment and integration 
services totaled $76 million and represented costs of EchoStar Receiver 
Systems sold prior to the August 1996 rollout of the 1996 Promotion.
     
     COST OF SALES - C-BAND AND OTHER.  Cost of sales - C-band and other 
totaled $24 million during 1997, a decrease of $18 million compared to 1996.  
This decrease was consistent with the decrease in related revenues and 
resulted from the world-wide decrease in the demand for C-band products and 
services.

     MARKETING EXPENSES.  Marketing expenses totaled $180 million for 1997, 
an increase of $128 million as compared to 1996.  The increase in marketing 
expenses was primarily attributable to the increase in subscriber promotion 
subsidies.  Subscriber promotion subsidies represent the excess of 
transaction costs over transaction proceeds at the time of sale of EchoStar 
Receiver Systems. These costs totaled $145 million during 1997, an increase 
of $111 million over 1996.  This increase resulted from the commencement of 
the 1997 Promotion and the increase in the number of EchoStar Receiver 
Systems sold during 1997.  Advertising and other expenses increased $17 
million to $35 million during 1997 as a result of increased marketing 
activity and operation of the DISH Network during the entirety of 1997.  
     
     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.  General and administrative ("G&A") 
expenses totaled $69 million for 1997, an increase of $17 million as compared 
to 1996.  The increase in G&A expenses was principally attributable to 
increased personnel expenses to support the growth of the DISH Network.  G&A 
expenses as a percentage of total revenue decreased to 15% during 1997 as 
compared to 26% during 1996.  EchoStar expects that its G&A expenses as a 
percent of total revenue may continue to decrease in future periods.      

     EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION.  EBITDA 
was negative $51 million for 1997, as compared to negative EBITDA of $66 
million for 1996.  This improvement in EBITDA resulted from the factors 
affecting revenue and expenses discussed above.  EchoStar believes that 
EBITDA results will continue to improve in future periods as the number of 
DISH Network subscribers increases.  In the event that new subscriber 
activations exceed expectations, EchoStar's EBITDA results may be negatively 
impacted in the near-term because subscriber acquisition costs are expensed 
upon shipment of EchoStar Receiver Systems.

     
     DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION.  Depreciation and amortization expenses 
for 1997 (including amortization of subscriber acquisition costs of $122 
million) aggregated $173 million in 1997, an increase of $130 million, as 
compared to 1996.  The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses 
principally resulted from amortization of 



subscriber acquisition costs (increase of $106 million) and depreciation of 
EchoStar II (placed in service during the fourth quarter of 1996).
     
     OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE.  Other expense, net totaled $88 million during 
1997, an increase of $42 million as compared to 1996. The 1997 increase in 
other expense resulted primarily from interest expense associated with the 
1997 Notes (as defined), which were issued in June 1997, and increases in 
interest expense associated with EchoStar's 12 7/8% Senior Secured Discount 
Notes due 2004 (the "1994 Notes") and its 13 1/8% Senior Secured Discount 
Notes due 2004 (the "1996 Notes") due to higher accreted balances thereon.  
These increases in interest expense were partially offset by increases in 
capitalized interest.  Capitalized interest (primarily related to satellite 
construction) totaled $43 million during 1997, compared to $32 million during 
1996.

     INCOME TAX BENEFIT.  The $55 million decrease in the income tax benefit 
during 1997 principally resulted from EchoStar's decision to increase its 
valuation allowance sufficient to fully offset net deferred tax assets 
arising during the year. Realization of these assets is dependent on EchoStar 
generating sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the net 
operating loss carryforwards.  EchoStar's net deferred tax assets ($67 
million at each of December 31, 1996 and 1997) principally relate to 
temporary differences for amortization of original issue discount on the 1994 
Notes and 1996 Notes, net operating loss carryforwards, and various accrued 
expenses which are not deductible until paid.  If future operating results 
differ materially and adversely from EchoStar's current expectations, its 
judgment regarding the magnitude of its valuation allowance may change.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995.
     
     REVENUE.  Total revenue for 1996 was $199 million, an increase of $50 
million as compared to total revenue during 1995 of $149 million.  This 
increase resulted from the introduction of the DISH Network and was partially 
offset by decreased sales of domestic and international C-band equipment and 
decreased C-band programming revenues.
     
     The DISH Network commenced operation in March 1996.  During 1996, DISH 
Network subscription television services revenues totaled $50 million and 
Other DISH Network revenue approximated $10 million, of which approximately 
$5 million related to incremental revenue realized on sales made pursuant to 
the 1996 Promotion. 
     
     During 1996, DTH equipment sales and integration services revenues 
principally resulted from sales of EchoStar Receiver Systems and related 
accessories prior to the August 1996 nationwide rollout of the 1996 
Promotion.  DTH equipment sales and integration services revenue for 1996 
totaled $78 million, an increase of $42 million over 1995 revenues of $36 
million.  During 1995, DTH equipment sales and integration services revenue 
primarily related to sales of a competitor's DBS satellite receivers and 
related accessories ("Competitor DBS Receivers").  All Competitor DBS 
Receivers were manufactured and supplied by a third-party manufacturer. 
     
     C-band and other revenue totaled $55 million for 1996, a decrease of $58 
million compared to $113 million in 1995.  Other revenue principally related 
to domestic and international sales of C-band products and net domestic 
C-band programming revenues. This decrease resulted from the world-wide 
decrease in demand for C-band products and services.
     
     DISH NETWORK OPERATING EXPENSES.  DISH Network operating expenses 
totaled $42 million for 1996 and represented 86% of subscription television 
services revenue.
     
     COST OF SALES - DTH EQUIPMENT AND INTEGRATION SERVICES.  For 1996, cost 
of sales - DTH equipment and integration services totaled $76 million and 
represented costs of EchoStar Receiver Systems sold prior to the August 1996 
rollout of the 1996 Promotion. For 1995, cost of sales - DTH equipment and 
integration services totaled $30 million and primarily represented costs of 
sales associated with Competitor DBS Receivers.
     
     COST OF SALES - C-BAND AND OTHER.  Cost of sales - C-band and other 
totaled $42 million during 1996, a decrease of $42 million compared to 1995.  
This decrease was consistent with the decrease in related revenues and 
resulted from the decline in the world-wide demand for C-band products and 
services.


     
     MARKETING EXPENSES.  Marketing expenses totaled $52 million for 1996, an 
increase of $50 million as compared to $2 million in 1995.  The increase in 
marketing expenses was primarily attributable to the increase in subscriber 
promotion subsidies.  These costs totaled $34 million in 1996.  During 1996, 
advertising and other expenses totaled $18 million, an increase of $16 
million compared to 1995, as a result of increased marketing activity 
associated with the introduction of the DISH Network.  
     
     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. G&A expenses totaled $52 million 
during 1996, an increase of $16 million as compared to $36 million in 1995.  
The increase in G&A expenses was principally attributable to increased 
personnel expenses to support the introduction and growth of the DISH 
Network. 
     
     EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION.  EBITDA 
was negative $66 million for 1996 as compared to negative EBITDA of $5 
million during 1995.  This deterioration in EBITDA resulted from the 
introduction of the DISH Network in March 1996, combined with the decrease in 
C-band revenues discussed above.
     
     DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION.  Depreciation and amortization expenses 
for 1996 (including amortization of subscriber acquisition costs of $16 
million) aggregated $43 million, an increase of $40 million, as compared to 
$3 million in 1995.  The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses 
principally resulted from amortization of subscriber acquisition costs and 
depreciation of EchoStar I and EchoStar II.
     
     OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE.  Other expense, net totaled $46 million for 
1996, an increase of $37 million, as compared to $9 million in 1995.  The 
increase in other expense resulted primarily from interest expense associated 
with the 1996 Notes, which were issued in March 1996, and increases in 
interest expenses associated with the 1994 Notes (resulting from a higher 
accreted balance thereon).  These increases in interest expense were 
partially offset by increases in capitalized interest.  Capitalized interest 
(principally attributable to satellite construction) totaled $32 million 
during 1996, compared to $26 million during 1995.

     INCOME TAX BENEFIT.  The increase in the income tax benefit of $49 
million principally resulted from the increase in the net loss during 1996.
     
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     EchoStar's working capital and capital expenditure requirements were 
substantial during the three-year period ended December 31, 1997.  Such 
expenditures principally related to the ongoing development of the EchoStar 
DBS System and the related commercial introduction of DISH Network service in 
March 1996.  Capital expenditures, including expenditures for satellite 
systems under construction, totaled $134 million, $222 million and $232 
million during 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. 
     
     During 1995 and 1996, net cash flows used in operations totaled $20 
million and $27 million, respectively.  During 1997, net cash flows provided 
by operations totaled $43,000.  EchoStar expects that its future working 
capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements will be satisfied 
from existing cash and investment balances and from cash generated from 
operations. EchoStar's ability to generate positive future operating and net 
cash flows is dependent upon its ability to continue to rapidly expand its 
DISH Network subscriber base and its ability to grow its Technology and 
Satellite Services businesses.  There can be no assurance that EchoStar will 
be successful in achieving its goals.  The amount of capital required to fund 
EchoStar's 1998 working capital and capital expenditure needs will vary 
dependent upon the level of success EchoStar experiences relative to its 
goals. EchoStar's working capital and capital expenditure requirements could 
increase materially in the event of increased competition for subscription 
television customers, significant launch delays or failures, or in the event 
of a general economic downturn, among other factors.
     
     During 1995 and 1996, EchoStar's capital expenditure and working capital 
requirements were funded principally from the proceeds of three offerings.  
In June 1994, EchoStar consummated an offering (the "1994 Notes Offering") of 
624,000 units consisting of $624 million principal amount at stated maturity 
of 12 7/8% Senior Secured Discount Notes due 2004 (the "1994 Notes") and 
3,744,000 Warrants (representing 2,808,000 shares of EchoStar Class A Common 
Stock).  The 1994 Notes Offering resulted in net proceeds of approximately 
$323 million.  In June 1995, ECC completed an initial public offering (the 
"IPO") of 4 million shares of its Class A Common Stock, resulting in net 
proceeds of approximately $63 million.  During March 1996, EchoStar Satellite 
Broadcasting 



Corporation ("ESBC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of EchoStar, consummated an 
offering (the "1996 Notes Offering") of $580 million principal amount at 
stated maturity of 13 1/8% Senior Secured Discount Notes due 2004 (the "1996 
Notes"), resulting in aggregate net proceeds of approximately $337 million.  
As of December 31, 1997, substantially all of the proceeds of the 1994 Notes 
Offering, the IPO and the 1996 Notes Offering had been used to fund the 
construction and development of the EchoStar DBS System.
     
     During 1997, EchoStar consummated four additional offerings (the "1997 
Offerings") which, combined, resulted in net proceeds of $715 million.  The 
1997 Offerings were completed in anticipation of EchoStar's substantial 
future working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements.  
EchoStar currently intends to use the majority of the net proceeds from the 
1997 Offerings for the acquisition of DISH Network subscribers, the 
construction, launch and insurance of EchoStar IV, and other general 
corporate purposes, including working capital.

     On June 25, 1997, EchoStar DBS Corporation ("DBS Corp"), a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of EchoStar, consummated an offering (the "1997 Notes Offering") 
of 12 1/2% Senior Secured Notes due 2002 (the "1997 Notes").  The 1997 Notes 
Offering resulted in net proceeds of $363 million (after payment of 
underwriting discounts and other issuance costs aggregating $12 million).  
Interest accrues on the 1997 Notes at a rate of 12 1/2% and is payable in 
cash semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year, with the first 
interest payment due January 1, 1998.  Of the net proceeds from the 1997 
Notes Offering, $109 million were placed in an escrow account (the "Interest 
Escrow") to fund semi-annual interest payments through January 1, 2000.  
Additionally, $112 million of the net proceeds of the 1997 Notes Offering 
were placed in a separate escrow account (the "Satellite Escrow") to fund the 
construction, launch and insurance of EchoStar IV.  The 1997 Notes mature on 
July 1, 2002.

     On October 2, 1997, EchoStar consummated an offering (the "Series B 
Preferred Offering") of 12 1/8% Series B Senior Redeemable Exchangeable 
Preferred Stock due 2004, par value $0.01 per share (including any additional 
shares of such stock issued from time to time in lieu of cash dividends, the 
"Series B Preferred Stock").  The Series B Preferred Offering resulted in net 
proceeds to EchoStar of $193 million.  Each share of Series B Preferred Stock 
has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share.  Dividends on the Series B 
Preferred Stock are payable quarterly in arrears, commencing on January 1, 
1998.  EchoStar may, at its option, pay dividends in cash or by issuing 
additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock having an aggregate liquidation 
preference equal to the amount of such dividends.  EchoStar currently intends 
to satisfy its dividend obligations on the Series B Preferred Stock by 
issuing additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock.  Prior to making any 
cash dividend payments, EchoStar would need to satisfy certain financial 
ratios as defined by certain of its indentures.  As of December 31, 1997, 
EchoStar does not meet such financial ratios nor can there be any assurance 
that it will meet those financial ratios in the future.  See "-AVAILABILITY 
OF OPERATING CASH FLOW TO ECHOSTAR."
     
     On November 4, 1997, EchoStar consummated an offering (the "Series C 
Preferred Offering") of 2.3 million shares of 6 3/4% Series C Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series C Preferred Stock").  The Series C 
Preferred Offering, after exercise by the underwriters of their 15% 
over-allotment option, resulted in net proceeds to EchoStar of $97 million.  
Simultaneously with the closing of the Series C Preferred Offering, the 
purchasers of the Series C Preferred Stock placed $15 million into an account 
(the "Deposit Account").  The Deposit Account will provide a quarterly cash 
payment of approximately $0.844 per share of Series C Preferred Stock (the 
"Quarterly Return Amount") commencing February 1, 1998 and continuing until 
November 1, 1999.  After that date, dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock 
will begin to accrue.  EchoStar may, prior to the date on which any Quarterly 
Return Amount would otherwise be payable, deliver a notice instructing the 
deposit agent: (i) to purchase from EchoStar, for transfer to each holder of 
Series C Preferred Stock, in lieu of the Quarterly Return Amount, that number 
of whole shares of Class A Common Stock determined by dividing the Quarterly 
Return Amount by 95% of the market value of the Class A Common Stock as of 
the date of such notice; or (ii) defer delivery of the Quarterly Return 
Amount to holders of Series C Preferred Stock on such quarterly payment date 
until the next quarterly payment date or any subsequent payment date.  
However, no later than November 1, 1999 (the "Deposit Expiration Date"), any 
amounts remaining in the Deposit Account, as of such date, including amounts 
which have previously been deferred, will be: (i) paid to the holders of 
Series C Preferred Stock; or (ii) at EchoStar's option, used to purchase from 
EchoStar for delivery to each holder of Series C Preferred Stock that number 
of whole shares of Class A Common Stock determined by dividing the balance 
remaining in the Deposit Account by 95% of the market value of the shares of 
Class A Common Stock as of the date of EchoStar's notice.  See "-AVAILABILITY 
OF OPERATING CASH FLOW TO ECHOSTAR."



     Also on November 4, 1997, EchoStar consummated an offering of 3.4 
million shares of its Class A Common Stock (the "Common Stock Offering"), 
including the exercise of a portion of the underwriters' over-allotment 
option in December 1997.  The Common Stock Offering resulted in net proceeds 
to EchoStar of $63 million.
     
     In addition to its DBS business plan, EchoStar has applications pending 
with the FCC for a two satellite FSS Ku-band satellite system, a two 
satellite FSS Ka-band satellite system, a two satellite extended Ku-band 
satellite system and a six satellite low earth orbit ("LEO") satellite 
system.  EchoStar would need to raise additional capital for the foregoing 
purposes.  Further, there may be a number of factors, some of which are 
beyond EchoStar's control or ability to predict, that could require EchoStar 
to raise additional capital.  These factors include unexpected increases in 
operating costs and expenses, a defect in or the loss of any satellite, or an 
increase in the cost of acquiring subscribers due to additional competition, 
among other things.  There can be no assurance that additional debt, equity 
or other financing, if required, will be available on terms acceptable to 
EchoStar, or at all.

SUBSCRIBER ACQUISITION COSTS

     As previously described, EchoStar subsidizes the cost of EchoStar 
Receiver Systems in order to stimulate DISH Network subscriber growth.  
Consequently, EchoStar's subscriber acquisition costs are significant.  
During 1997, EchoStar's aggregate subscriber acquisition costs (deferred 
subscriber acquisition costs, subscriber promotion subsidies and acquisition 
marketing expenses) approximated $330 per new subscriber activation.  While 
there can be no assurance, EchoStar expects that its subscriber acquisition 
costs may decrease during 1998 (to less than $300 per new subscriber 
activation), principally as expected reductions in the cost of EchoStar 
Receiver Systems are realized.  In the event that competition for new 
subscription television subscribers intensifies, or as a result of other 
factors (competitive or otherwise), EchoStar's subscriber acquisition costs 
may increase.  To the extent that such costs materially increase, EchoStar 
may be required to obtain additional debt, equity or other financing. There 
can be no assurance that additional debt, equity or other financing, if 
required, will be available on terms acceptable to EchoStar, or at all.
     

FUTURE CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

     During 1998 EchoStar anticipates that it will expend $68 million to 
construct, launch and support EchoStar IV, which is expected to be launched 
during the Spring of 1998.  These expenditures are expected to be funded from 
the Satellite Escrow.  Capital expenditures related to EchoStar IV may 
increase in the event of delays, cost overruns, increased costs associated 
with certain potential change orders under EchoStar's satellite or launch 
contracts, or a change in launch provider. Additionally, in January 1998, 
EchoStar began making the required semi-annual interest payments of $23 
million on the 1997 Notes.  The first five such semi-annual interest payments 
will be funded from the Interest Escrow.  
     
     As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar had approximately $1.4 billion of 
outstanding long-term debt.  Interest on the 1994 Notes and the 1996 Notes 
accretes, but currently is not payable in cash.  Semi-annual cash interest 
payments associated with the 1994 Notes commence December 1, 1999 and will 
approximate $40 million.  The 1994 Notes Indenture requires principal 
reductions of $156 million on each of June 1, 2002 and 2003.  These principal 
reductions will result in decreases in semi-annual cash interest payments to 
$30 million and $20 million, effective December 1, 2002 and December 1, 2003, 
respectively.  Semi-annual cash interest payments of $38 million associated 
with the 1996 Notes commence on September 15, 2000.  The 1996 Notes mature in 
full on March 15, 2005.  The 1997 Notes require semi-annual interest payments 
of $23 million in January and July of each year, commencing January 1, 1998.  
Interest payments through January 1, 2000 will be funded from the Interest 
Escrow.  The 1997 Notes mature July 1, 2002.  EchoStar utilized $78 million 
of satellite vendor financing for EchoStar I, EchoStar II and EchoStar III.  
As of December 31, 1997, approximately $60 million of such satellite vendor 
financing was outstanding.  The satellite vendor financing bears interest at 
8.25% and is payable in equal monthly installments over five years following 
launch of the respective satellites.  Satellite vendor financing of $13 
million is expected to be used for EchoStar IV.  The terms of the EchoStar IV 
satellite vendor financing are expected to be similar to that associated with 
the other satellite vendor financing.



AVAILABILITY OF OPERATING CASH FLOW TO ECHOSTAR

     Since all of EchoStar's, DBS Corp's, ESBC's and Dish, Ltd.'s operations 
are conducted through subsidiaries, the cash flow of EchoStar, DBS Corp, ESBC 
and Dish, Ltd., and their ability to service debt, including the 1994 Notes, 
the 1996 Notes and the 1997 Notes are dependent upon the earnings of their 
respective subsidiaries and, in general, the payment of funds by such 
subsidiaries to Dish, Ltd., by the payment of funds by Dish, Ltd. to ESBC, by 
the payment of funds by ESBC to DBS Corp, and by the payment of funds by DBS 
Corp to EchoStar in the form of loans, dividends or other payments.  
     
     The cash flow generated by subsidiaries of Dish, Ltd. will only be 
available if and to the extent that Dish, Ltd. is able to make such cash 
available to ESBC in the form of dividends, loans or other payments.  The 
indentures related to the 1994 Notes, 1996 Notes and the 1997 Notes impose 
various restrictions on the transfer of funds among EchoStar and its 
subsidiaries.  The 1994 Notes Indenture contains restrictive covenants that, 
among other things, impose limitations on Dish, Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
with respect to their ability to: (i) incur additional indebtedness; 
(ii) issue preferred stock; (iii) sell assets; (iv) create, incur or assume 
liens; (v) create dividend and other payment restrictions with respect to Dish,
Ltd.'s subsidiaries; (vi) merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of its 
assets; and (vii) enter into transactions with affiliates.  In addition, 
Dish, Ltd. may pay dividends on its equity securities only if (1) no default 
exists under the 1994 Notes Indenture; and (2) after giving effect to such 
dividends, Dish, Ltd.'s ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (calculated 
in accordance with the 1994 Notes Indenture) would not exceed 4.0 to 1.0.  
Moreover, the aggregate amount of such dividends generally may not exceed the 
sum of 50% of Dish, Ltd.'s consolidated net income (less 100% of consolidated 
net losses) from April 1, 1994, plus 100% of the aggregate net proceeds to 
Dish, Ltd. from the sale and issuance of certain equity interests of Dish, 
Ltd. (including common stock).  
     
     The 1996 Notes Indenture contains restrictive covenants that, among 
other things, impose limitations on ESBC with respect to its ability to: 
(i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) issue preferred stock; (iii) sell assets
and apply the proceeds thereof; (iv) create, incur or assume liens; (v) 
create dividend and other payment restrictions with respect to ESBC's 
subsidiaries; (vi) merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of its 
assets; and (vii) enter into transactions with affiliates.  The 1996 Notes 
Indenture permits ESBC to pay dividends and make other distributions to DBS 
Corp without restrictions.  
     
     The indenture related to the 1997 Notes (the "1997 Notes Indenture") and 
the Certificate of Designation for the Series B Preferred Stock (as defined, 
see Note 7) contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, impose 
limitations on the ability of DBS Corp to: (i) incur additional indebtedness; 
(ii) issue preferred stock; (iii) apply the proceeds of certain asset sales; 
(iv) create, incur or assume liens; (v) create dividend and other payment 
restrictions with respect to DBS Corp's subsidiaries; (vi) merge, consolidate 
or sell assets; (vii) incur subordinated or junior debt; and (viii) enter 
into transactions with affiliates.  In addition, DBS Corp may pay dividends 
on its equity securities only if: (1) no default shall have occurred or is 
continuing under the 1997 Notes Indenture; and (2) after giving effect to 
such dividend and the incurrence of any indebtedness (the proceeds of which 
are used to finance the dividend), DBS Corps's ratio of total indebtedness to 
cash flow (calculated in accordance with the 1997 Notes Indenture) would not 
exceed 6.0 to 1.0.  Moreover, the aggregate amount of such dividends 
generally may not exceed the sum of the difference of cumulative consolidated 
cash flow (calculated in accordance with the 1997 Notes Indenture) minus 150% 
of consolidated interest expense of DBS Corp (calculated in accordance with 
the 1997 Notes Indenture), in each case from July 1, 1997 plus an amount 
equal to 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds received by DBS Corp and its 
subsidiaries from the issuance or sale of certain equity interests of DBS 
Corp or EchoStar.

     The Series B Preferred Stock is exchangeable, at the option of EchoStar, 
into 12 1/8% Senior Exchange Notes due 2004 (the "Senior Exchange Notes"). 
The indenture issuable upon the exchange of the Series B Preferred Stock for 
the Senior Exchange Notes (the "Exchange Indenture") contains restrictive 
covenants which are substantially identical to the covenants contained in the 
1997 Notes Indenture, including the entity to which the covenants apply.  The 
Certificate of Designation associated with the Series B Preferred Stock also 
restricts the ability of DBS Corp and its subsidiaries to (i) make restricted 
payments, (ii) incur certain indebtedness or issue certain equity interests, 
(iii) create payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries, (iv) engage in 
transactions with affiliates or (v) engage in certain asset sales.  A 
majority of the covenants contained in the Certificate of Designation 
associated with the Series B Preferred Stock and the indenture related to the 
Senior Exchange Notes are applicable solely to DBS Corp and its subsidiaries 
and do not impose restrictions or limitations on EchoStar or any of 
EchoStar's subsidiaries which are not also subsidiaries of DBS Corp.



     If cash generated from EchoStar's operations is not sufficient to meet 
the debt service requirements of the 1994 Notes, the 1996 Notes and the 1997 
Notes, EchoStar would be required to obtain cash from other financing 
sources.  There can be no assurance that such financing would be available on 
terms acceptable to EchoStar, or if available, that the proceeds of such 
financing would be sufficient to enable EchoStar to meet all of its 
obligations.  

IMPACT OF YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     EchoStar has assessed and continues to assess the impact of the Year 
2000 Issue on its computer systems and operations.  The Year 2000 Issue 
exists because many computer systems and applications currently use two-digit 
date fields to designate a year. Thus, as the century date approaches, date 
sensitive systems may recognize the year 2000 as 1900 or not at all.  The 
inability to recognize or properly treat the Year 2000 may cause computer 
systems to process critical financial and operational information incorrectly.
     
     EchoStar presently believes that with modifications to existing software 
and conversions to new software, the Year 2000 Issue can be mitigated.  
EchoStar is utilizing both internal and external resources to identify, 
correct or reprogram, and test all affected systems for Year 2000 compliance. 
The Company has also initiated formal communications with all of its 
significant suppliers to determine the extent to which EchoStar is vulnerable 
to those third parties' failure to remediate their own Year 2000 Issue.  
EchoStar believes its costs to successfully mitigate the Year 2000 Issue will 
not be material.
     
     If EchoStar's remediation plan is not successful or is not completed in 
a timely manner, the Year 2000 Issue could significantly disrupt EchoStar's 
ability to transact business with its customers and suppliers, and could have 
a material impact on its operations.  In addition, there can be no assurance 
that the systems of other companies with which EchoStar's systems interact 
also will be timely converted, or that any such failure to convert by another 
company would not have an adverse effect on EchoStar's systems.
     
EFFECTS OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued 
FAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("FAS No. 130"), which 
establishes standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and 
its components (revenues, expenses, gains and losses) in a full set of 
general-purpose financial statements. In June 1997, the FASB issued FAS No. 
131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" 
("FAS No. 131") which establishes standards for reporting information about 
operating segments in annual financial statements of public business 
enterprises and requires that those enterprises report selected information 
about operating segments in interim financial reports issued to shareholders 
and for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas, 
and major customers.  FAS No. 130 and FAS No. 131 are effective for financial 
statements for periods beginning after December 15, 1997.  The adoption of 
FAS No. 130 and FAS No. 131 may require additional disclosure in EchoStar's 
financial statements.
     
INFLATION

     Inflation has not materially affected EchoStar's operations during the 
past three years.  EchoStar believes that its ability to increase the prices 
charged for its products and services in future periods will depend primarily 
on competitive pressures. EchoStar does not have any material backlog of its 
products.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          EchoStar's Consolidated Financial Statements are included in this 
          report beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          None.




                                       
                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information required by this Item with respect to the identity and 
business experience of the directors of EchoStar is set forth in EchoStar's 
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 
1998, under the caption "Election of Directors," which information is hereby 
incorporated herein by reference.
     
     The information required by this Item with respect to the identity and 
business experience of EchoStar's executive officers is set forth on page 24 
of this Report under the caption "Executive Officers."
     
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this Item is set forth in EchoStar's Proxy 
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 1998, 
under the caption "Executive Compensation and Other Information," which 
information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this Item is set forth in EchoStar's Proxy 
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 1998, 
under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Equity Security Ownership," 
which information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this Item is set forth in EchoStar's Proxy 
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 1998, 
under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions," which 
information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.




                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

          (1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                          PAGE

              Report of Independent Public Accountants...................    F-2
              Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1996 and 1997..    F-3
              Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended 
               December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997..........................    F-4
              Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity 
               for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997......    F-5
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended 
               December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997..........................    F-6
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.................    F-7

          (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

              None. All schedules have been included in the Consolidated 
              Financial Statements or Notes thereto.

          (3) EXHIBITS

 2.1*     Amended and Restated Agreement for Exchange of Stock and Merger, 
          dated as of May 31, 1995, by and among EchoStar Communications 
          Corporation, a Nevada corporation formed in April 1995 ("EchoStar"), 
          Charles W. Ergen and Dish, Ltd. (formerly EchoStar Communications 
          Corporation, a Nevada corporation formed in December 1993) ("Dish") 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 33-91276).

 2.2*     Plan and Agreement of Merger made as of December 21, 1995 by and 
          among EchoStar, Direct Broadcasting Satellite Corporation, a 
          Colorado Corporation ("MergerCo") and Direct Broadcasting Satellite 
          Corporation, a Delaware Corporation ("DBSC") (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 2.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 
          of EchoStar, Registration No. 333-03584).

 2.3*     Merger Trigger Agreement entered into as of December 21, 1995 by and 
          among EchoStar, MergerCo and DBSC (incorporated by reference to 
          Exhibit 2.4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of EchoStar, 
          Registration No. 333-03584).

 3.1(a)*  Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of EchoStar 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(a) to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 33-91276).

 3.1(b)*  Bylaws of EchoStar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(b) to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 
          33-91276).

 3.2(a)*  Articles of Incorporation of EchoStar Satellite Broadcasting 
          Corporation (formerly EchoStar Bridge Corporation, a Colorado 
          corporation) ("ESBC") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(e) 
          to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of ESBC, Registration No. 
          333-3980).

 3.2(b)*  Bylaws of ESBC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(f) to the 
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 of ESBC, Registration No. 
          333-3980).

 3.3(a)*  Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Dish (incorporated 
          by reference to Exhibit 3.1(a) to the Registration Statement on Form 
          S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 3.3(b)*  Bylaws of Dish (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(b) to the 
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-76450).




 3.4(a)*  Articles of Incorporation of EchoStar DBS Corporation, a Colorado 
          corporation ("DBS Corp.") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
          3.4(a) to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of DBS Corp., 
          Registration No. 333-31929).

 3.4(b)*  Bylaws of DBS Corp. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4(b) to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of DBS Corp., Registration 
          No. 333-31929).

 4.1*     Indenture of Trust between Dish and First Trust National Association 
          ("First Trust"), as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
          4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration 
          No. 33-76450).

 4.2*     Warrant Agreement between EchoStar and First Trust, as Warrant Agent 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 4.3*     Security Agreement in favor of First Trust, as Trustee under the 
          Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto (incorporated by reference to 
          Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, 
          Registration No. 33-76450).

 4.4*     Escrow and Disbursement Agreement between Dish and First Trust 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 4.5*     Pledge Agreement in favor of First Trust, as Trustee under the 
          Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto (incorporated by reference to 
          Exhibit 4.5 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, 
          Registration No. 33-76450).

 4.6*     Intercreditor Agreement among First Trust, Continental Bank, N.A. 
          and Martin Marietta Corporation ("Martin Marietta") (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 
          of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 4.7*     Series A Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation of EchoStar 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 33-91276).

 4.8*     Registration Rights Agreement by and between EchoStar and Charles W. 
          Ergen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 33-91276).

 4.9*     Indenture of Trust between ESBC and First Trust, as Trustee 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K of EchoStar for the year ended December 31, 1995, 
          Commission File No. 0-26176).

 4.10*    Security Agreement of ESBC in favor of First Trust, as Trustee under 
          the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.9 hereto (incorporated by reference 
          to Exhibit 4.10 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of EchoStar for 
          the year ended December 31, 1995, Commission File No. 0-26176).

 4.11*    Escrow and Disbursement Agreement between ESBC and First Trust 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K of EchoStar for the year ended December 31, 1995, 
          Commission File No. 0-26176).

 4.12*    Pledge Agreement of ESBC in favor of First Trust, as Trustee under 
          the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.9 hereto (incorporated by reference 
          to Exhibit 4.12 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of EchoStar for 
          the year ended December 31, 1995, Commission File No. 0-26176).

 4.13*    Pledge Agreement of EchoStar in favor of First Trust, as Trustee 
          under the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.9 hereto (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
          EchoStar for the year ended December 31, 1995, Commission File No. 
          0-26176).




 4.14*    Registration Rights Agreement by and between ESBC, EchoStar, Dish, 
          MergerCo and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.14 to the Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K of EchoStar for the year ended December 31, 1995, 
          Commission File No. 0-26176).

 4.15*    Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of June 25, 1997, by and 
          among DBS Corp., EchoStar Communications Corporation, a Nevada 
          corporation formed in April 1995 ("EchoStar"), EchoStar Satellite 
          Broadcasting Corporation, a Colorado corporation, Dish, Ltd. 
          (formerly EchoStar Communications Corporation, a Nevada corporation 
          formed in December 1993), Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities 
          Corporation ("DLJ") and Lehman Brothers Inc. ("Lehman Brothers") 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-4 of DBS Corp., Registration No. 333-31929).

 4.16*    Indenture of Trust, dated as of June 25, 1997, between DBS Corp. and 
          First Trust National Association ("First Trust"), as Trustee 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16 to Amendment No. 1 to the 
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 of DBS Corp., Registration No. 
          333-31929).

 4.17*    12 1/8% Series B Senior Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock 
          Certificate of Correction for the Certificate of Designation of 
          EchoStar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.17 to Amendment No. 
          1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of EchoStar, Registration 
          No. 333-37683).

 4.18*    Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 2, 1997, by and 
          among EchoStar, DLJ and Lehman Brothers (incorporated by reference 
          to Exhibit 4.18 to Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on 
          Form S-3 of EchoStar, Registration No. 333-37683).

 4.19*    6 3/4% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate 
          of Designation of EchoStar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
          4.19 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 of EchoStar, 
          Registration No. 333-39901).

 4.20*    Form of Deposit Agreement between EchoStar and American Securities 
          Transfer & Trust, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.20 to 
          Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of 
          EchoStar, Registration No. 333-37683).

 4.21(a)* Form of Underwriting Agreement for 6 3/4% Series C Cumulative 
          Convertible Preferred Stock by and between EchoStar, DLJ and Lehman 
          Brothers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to Amendment No. 
          1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of EchoStar, Registration 
          No. 333-37683).

 4.21(b)* Form of Underwriting Agreement for Class A Common Stock by and 
          between EchoStar, DLJ, BT Alex. Brown Incorporated and Unterberg 
          Harris (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to Amendment No. 1 
          to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of EchoStar, Registration 
          No. 333-37683).

 4.22*    Form of Indenture for EchoStar's 12 1/8% Senior Exchange Notes due 
          2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Quarterly 
          Report on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for the quarterly period ended 
          September 30, 1997, Commission File No. 0-26176). 

 10.1(a)* Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of February 6, 1990, 
          between EchoStar Satellite Corporation ("ESC") and Martin Marietta 
          as successor to General Electric EchoStar, Astro-Space Division 
          ("General Electric") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(a) 
          to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-76450).

 10.1(b)* First Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          October 2, 1992, between ESC and Martin Marietta as successor to 
          General Electric (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(b) to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-76450).




 10.1(c)* Second Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          October 30, 1992, between ESC and Martin Marietta as successor to 
          General Electric (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(c) to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-76450).

 10.1(d)* Third Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          April 1, 1993, between ESC and Martin Marietta (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.1(d) to the Registration Statement on Form 
          S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 10.1(e)* Fourth Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          August 19, 1993, between ESC and Martin Marietta (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.1(e) to the Registration Statement on Form 
          S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 10.1(f)* Form of Fifth Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, 
          between ESC and Martin Marietta (incorporated by reference to 
          Exhibit 10.1(f) to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, 
          Registration No. 33-81234).

 10.1(g)* Sixth Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          June 7, 1994, between ESC and Martin Marietta (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.1(g) to the Registration Statement on Form 
          S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-81234).

 10.1(h)* Eighth Amendment to the Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          July 18, 1996, between ESC and Martin Marietta (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.1(h) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of 
          EchoStar for the quarter ended June 30, 1996, Commission File No. 
          0-26176).

 10.2*    Master Purchase and License Agreement, dated as of August 12, 1986, 
          between Houston Tracker Systems, Inc. ("HTS") and Cable/Home 
          Communications Corp. (a subsidiary of General Instruments 
          Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-76450).

 10.3*    Master Purchase and License Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1986, 
          between Echosphere Corporation and Cable/Home Communications Corp. 
          (a subsidiary of General Instruments Corporation) (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 
          of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 10.4*    Merchandising Financing Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1989, 
          between Echo Acceptance Corporation and Household Retail Services, 
          Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450).

 10.5*    Key Employee Bonus Plan, dated as of January 1, 1994 (incorporated 
          by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registration Statement on Form 
          S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 33-76450)**

 10.6*    Consulting Agreement, dated as of February 17, 1994, between ESC and 
          Telesat Canada (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the 
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-76450).

 10.7*    Form of Satellite Launch Insurance Declarations (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 
          of Dish, Registration No. 33-81234).

 10.8*    Dish 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
          10.11 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration 
          No. 33-76450).**

 10.9*    Form of Tracking, Telemetry and Control Contract between AT&T Corp. 
          and ESC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the 
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Registration No. 
          33-81234).




 10.10*   Manufacturing Agreement, dated as of March 22, 1995, between HTS and 
          SCI Technology, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Dish, Commission File No. 
          33-81234). 

 10.11*   Manufacturing Agreement dated as of April 14, 1995 by and between 
          ESC and Sagem Group (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 
          33-91276).

 10.12*   Statement of Work, dated January 31, 1995 from ESC to DiviCom, Inc. 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Registration 
          Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 33-91276).

 10.13*   Launch Services Contract, dated as of June 2, 1995, by and between 
          EchoStar Space Corporation and Lockheed-Khrunichev-Energia 
          International, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to 
          the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, Registration No. 
          33-91276).

 10.14*   EchoStar 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to 
          Exhibit 10.16 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of EchoStar, 
          Registration No. 33-91276)** 

10.15(a)* Eighth Amendment to Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          February 1, 1994, between DirectSat Corporation and Martin Marietta 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17(a) to the Quarterly 
          Report on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for the quarter ended June 30, 1996, 
          Commission File No. 0-26176).

10.15(b)* Ninth Amendment to Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of 
          February 1, 1994, between DirectSat Corporation and Martin Marietta 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registration 
          Statement of Form S-4 of EchoStar, Registration No. 333-03584).

10.15(c)* Tenth Amendment to Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of July 
          18, 1996, between DirectSat Corporation and Martin Marietta 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17(b) to the Quarterly 
          Report on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for the quarter ended June 30, 1996, 
          Commission File No. 0-26176).

 10.16*   Satellite Construction Contract, dated as of July 18, 1996, between 
          EDBS and Lockheed Martin Corporation (incorporated by reference to 
          Exhibit 10.18 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for 
          the quarter ended June 30, 1996, Commission File No. 0-26176).

 10.17*   Confidential Amendment to Satellite Construction Contract between 
          DBSC and Martin Marietta, dated as of May 31, 1995 (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Registration Statement of Form S-4 
          of EchoStar, Registration No. 333-03584).

 10.18*   Right and License Agreement by and among HTS and Asia Broadcasting 
          and Communications Network, Ltd., dated December 19, 1996 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K of EchoStar for the year ended December 31, 1996, as 
          amended, Commission file No. 0-26176).

 10.19*   Agreement between HTS, ESC and ExpressVu Inc., dated January 8, 
          1997, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 
          Annual Report on Form 10-K of EchoStar for the year ended December 
          31, 1996, as amended, Commission File No. 0-26176).

 10.20*   Amendment No. 9 to Satellite Construction Contract, effective as of 
          July 18, 1996, between Direct Satellite Bro adcasting Corporation, a 
          Delaware corporation ("DBSC") and Martin Marrieta Corporation 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report 
          on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for the quarterly period ended June 30, 
          1997, Commission File No. 0-26176).



 10.21*   Amendment No. 10 to Satellite Construction Contract, effective as of 
          May 31, 1996, between DBSC and Lockheed Martin Corporation 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report 
          on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for the quarterly period ended June 30, 
          1997, Commission File No. 0-26176).

 10.22*   Contract for Launch Services, dated April 5, 1996, between Lockheed 
          Martin Commercial Launch Services, Inc. and EchoStar Space 
          Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of EchoStar for the quarterly period 
          ended June 30, 1997, Commission File No. 0-26176).

 21+      Subsidiaries of EchoStar Communications Corporation. 

 24.1+    Powers of Attorney authorizing signature of R. Scott Zimmer, James 
          DeFranco, Alan M. Angelich and Raymond L. Friedlob. 

 27+      Financial Data Schedule. 


*   Incorporated by reference.
**  Constitutes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
+   Filed herewith



     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1997.




                                       
                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, EchoStar has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION

                     By:  /s/ STEVEN B. SCHAVER
                        -----------------------------------------------------
                          Steven B. Schaver
                          Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer

Date:  March 20, 1998

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of EchoStar 
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:




              INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                          PAGE
                                                                          ----
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
  Report of Independent Public Accountants                                 F-2
  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1996 and 1997                F-3
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended 
   December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997                                        F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for 
   the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997                        F-5
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended 
   December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997                                        F-6
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                               F-7



                                      F-1


                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To EchoStar Communications Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EchoStar 
Communications Corporation (a Nevada corporation) and subsidiaries, as 
described in Note 1, as of December 31, 1996 and 1997, and the related 
consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity and 
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companies' 
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial 
statements based on our audits.
     
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
     
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present 
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of 
EchoStar Communications Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 
and 1997, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Denver, Colorado,
February 27, 1998.

                                     F-2


                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           (Dollars in thousands)


           See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                     F-3


                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (In thousands, except per share amounts)



            See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       F-4


                           ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (In thousands, except per share amounts)



                See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                          F-5

                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                   (In thousands)


            See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       F-6


                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

PRINCIPAL BUSINESS
     
     The operations of EchoStar Communications Corporation ("ECC," and 
together with its subsidiaries, "EchoStar" or the "Company") include three 
interrelated business units:
     
     - THE DISH NETWORK - a DBS subscription television service in the United
       States.  As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar had approximately 1,040,000 
       DISH Network subscribers.

     - TECHNOLOGY - the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of DBS set-
       top boxes, antennae and other digital equipment for the DISH Network 
       ("EchoStar Receiver Systems"), and the design, manufacture and 
       distribution of similar equipment for direct-to-home ("DTH") projects of
       others internationally, together with the provision of uplink center 
       design, construction oversight and other project integration services for
       international DTH ventures.
     
     - SATELLITE SERVICES - the turn-key delivery of video, audio and data 
       services to business television customers and other satellite users.  
       These services include satellite uplink services, satellite transponder 
       space usage, and other services.
     
     Since 1994, EchoStar has deployed substantial resources to develop the 
"EchoStar DBS System."  The EchoStar DBS System consists of EchoStar's 
FCC-allocated orbital spectrum, DBS satellites ("EchoStar I," "EchoStar II," 
"EchoStar III," and "EchoStar IV," respectively), digital satellite 
receivers, digital broadcast operations center, customer service facilities, 
and other assets utilized in its operations.  EchoStar's principal business 
strategy is to continue developing its subscription television service in the 
U.S. to provide consumers with a fully viable alternative to cable television 
service.
     
ORGANIZATION AND LEGAL STRUCTURE
     
     Certain companies principally owned and controlled by Mr. Charles W. 
Ergen were reorganized in 1993 into Dish, Ltd. (together with its 
subsidiaries, "Dish, Ltd.").  In April 1995, ECC was formed to complete an 
initial public offering (the "IPO") of its Class A Common Stock.  
Concurrently, Mr. Ergen exchanged all of his then outstanding shares of Class 
B Common Stock and 8% Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock of Dish, Ltd. for 
like shares of ECC (the "Exchange").  In December 1995, ECC merged Dish, Ltd. 
with a wholly-owned subsidiary of ECC (the "Merger").  Substantially all of 
EchoStar's operations are conducted by subsidiaries of Dish, Ltd.  The 
following table summarizes the organizational structure of EchoStar and its 
principle subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997:

                                                  REFERRED TO                  
   LEGAL ENTITY                                   HEREIN AS      PARENT        
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   EchoStar Communications Corporation           ECC             Publicly owned
   EchoStar DBS Corporation                      DBS Corp        ECC           
   EchoStar Satellite Broadcasting Corporation   ESBC            DBS Corp      
   Dish, Ltd.                                    Dish, Ltd.      ESBC          
   EchoStar Satellite Corporation                ESC             Dish, Ltd.    
   Echosphere Corporation                        Echosphere      Dish, Ltd.    
   Houston Tracker Systems, Inc.                 HTS             Dish, Ltd.    
   EchoStar International Corporation            EIC             Dish, Ltd.    

                                       F-7

                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-CONTINUED

1.   ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS ACTIVITIES-CONTINUED

SIGNIFICANT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

     COMPETITION.  The subscription television industry is highly 
competitive. EchoStar faces competition from companies offering video, audio, 
data, programming and entertainment services.  Many of these competitors have 
substantially greater financial and marketing resources than EchoStar. 
EchoStar's ability to effectively compete in the subscription television 
market will depend on a number of factors, including competitive factors 
(such as the introduction of new technologies or the entry of additional 
strong competitors), the level of consumer demand for such services, the 
availability of EchoStar Receiver Systems, and EchoStar's ability to obtain 
necessary regulatory changes and approvals.

     DEPENDENCE ON SINGLE RECEIVER MANUFACTURER.  During 1997, EchoStar 
Receiver Systems were manufactured exclusively by SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"), 
a high-volume contract electronics manufacturer.  During February 1998, 
EchoStar executed two separate agreements for the manufacture of digital 
set-top boxes in accordance with EchoStar's specifications.  Phillips 
Electronics of North America Corporation ("Phillips") and VTech 
Communications Ltd. ("VTech") are expected to begin the manufacture of 
EchoStar's digital set-top boxes during the second half of 1998. There can be 
no assurance that either or both of Phillips or VTech will be able to 
successfully manufacture and deliver digital set-top boxes during 1998, or at 
all.  EchoStar currently is negotiating with additional brand-name consumer 
electronics manufacturers to produce receivers for use with the DISH Network. 
No assurance can be provided regarding the ultimate success of those 
negotiations.  In the event that EchoStar's manufacturers of digital set-top 
boxes are unable for any reason to produce receivers in a quantity sufficient 
to meet its requirements, EchoStar's ability to add additional subscribers, 
or its ability to satisfy delivery obligations for receiver sales to 
international DTH providers, may be materially impaired and its results of 
operations would be adversely affected.

     TRANSACTIONS WITH MAJOR CUSTOMERS.  During 1997, export sales to two 
customers, ExpressVu, Inc. and Distribuidora de Television Digital S.A., 
together accounted for approximately 16% of EchoStar's total revenue.  
Complete or partial loss of one or both of these customers could have a 
material adverse effect on EchoStar's results of operations.
     
     SUBSTANTIAL LEVERAGE.  EchoStar is highly leveraged, which makes it 
vulnerable to changes in general economic conditions.  As of December 31, 
1997, EchoStar had outstanding long-term debt (including both the current and 
long-term portion thereof) totaling approximately $1.4 billion.  In addition, 
EchoStar's long-term debt will increase by at least $266 million through 
March 2000, as interest on certain of its long-term debt accrues and is not 
payable in cash.  Substantially all of the assets of EchoStar and its 
subsidiaries are pledged as collateral on its long-term debt.  Further, the 
indentures associated with EchoStar's long-term debt severely restrict its 
ability to incur additional indebtedness.  Thus, it may be difficult for 
EchoStar and its subsidiaries to obtain additional debt financing if required 
or desired in order to implement EchoStar's business strategy.  Certain of 
EchoStar's subsidiaries also are parties to other agreements which severely 
restrict their ability to obtain additional debt financing for working 
capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes.
     
     EXPECTED OPERATING LOSSES.  Due to the substantial expenditures required 
to develop the EchoStar DBS System and introduce DISH Network service to 
consumers, EchoStar has sustained significant losses in recent periods. 
EchoStar's operating losses were $8 million, $109 million and $224 million 
for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.  EchoStar 
had net losses of $11 million, $101 million and $313 million during those 
same periods.  Improvement in EchoStar's results of operations is largely 
dependent upon EchoStar's ability to expand its DISH Network subscription 
base, control subscriber churn (i.e., the rate at which subscribers terminate 
service), and effectively manage its operating and overhead costs.  No 
assurance can be given that EchoStar will be effective with regard to these 
matters.  In addition, EchoStar incurs significant costs to acquire DISH 
Network subscribers.  The high cost of obtaining new subscribers magnifies 
the negative effects of subscriber churn.  EchoStar anticipates that it will 
continue to experience operating losses through at least 1999.  There can be 
no assurance that such operating losses will not continue beyond 1999 or that 
EchoStar's operations will generate sufficient cash flows to pay its 
obligations, including its obligations on its long-term debt, or to pay cash 
dividends on any of its preferred stock.

                                       F-8

                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-CONTINUED

2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The financial statements for 1995 present the consolidation of Dish, 
Ltd. and its subsidiaries through the date of the Exchange and the 
consolidation of ECC and its subsidiaries, thereafter.  The Exchange and 
Merger was accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control 
and the historical cost basis of assets and liabilities was not affected by 
the transaction.  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have 
been eliminated.
     
     EchoStar accounts for investments in 50% or less owned entities using 
the equity method.  At December 31, 1996 and 1997, these investments were not 
material to EchoStar's consolidated financial statements.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for each 
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTION GAINS AND LOSSES

     The functional currency of EchoStar's foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. 
dollar because their sales and purchases are predominantly denominated in 
that currency.  Transactions denominated in currencies other than U.S. 
dollars are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions 
arise. Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and 
losses which are reflected in income as unrealized (based on period-end 
translation) or realized (upon settlement of the transaction).  Net 
transaction gains (losses) during 1995, 1996 and 1997 were not material to 
EchoStar's results of operations.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     EchoStar considers all liquid investments purchased with an original 
maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents.  Cash equivalents as of 
December 31, 1996 and 1997 consist of money market funds, corporate notes and 
commercial paper; such balances are stated at cost which equates to market 
value.

                                       F-9

                                       
                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTNG POLICIES - CONTINUED

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS DATA

     The following presents EchoStar's supplemental cash flow statement
disclosure (in thousands):



MARKETABLE INVESTMENT SECURITIES AND RESTRICTED CASH AND MARKETABLE INVESTMENT
SECURITIES

     As of December 31, 1996 and 1997, EchoStar has classified all marketable
investment securities as available-for-sale.  Accordingly, these investments
are reflected at market value based on quoted market prices.  Related
unrealized gains and losses are reported as a separate component of
stockholders' equity, net of related deferred income taxes.  The specific
identification method is used to determine cost in computing realized gains and
losses.  The major components of marketable investment securities as of
December 31, 1996 and 1997 are as follows (in thousands):



                                      F-10

                       ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTNG POLICIES - CONTINUED

     Restricted cash and marketable investment securities held in escrow 
accounts, as reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, 
include cash restricted by the various indentures associated with certain of 
EchoStar's debt financing transactions (see Note 5), plus investment earnings 
thereon. Restricted cash and marketable investment securities are invested in 
certain permitted debt and other marketable investment securities until 
disbursed for the express purposes identified in the applicable indenture.

     As of December 31, 1996, other restricted cash included a total of $25 
million held in two escrow accounts for the benefit of EchoStar Receiver 
System manufacturers.  These deposits were released from their respective 
escrow accounts during May 1997.  In addition, $6 million at December 31, 
1996 was restricted by an indenture to satisfy certain covenants pertaining 
to launch insurance for EchoStar II.  This covenant was satisfied during 
September 1997.
     
     The major components of Restricted Cash and Marketable Investment 
Securities are as follows (in thousands):



     Marketable investment securities and restricted cash and marketable
investment securities include debt securities of $427 million with contractual
maturities of one year or less, $28 million with contractual maturities of
between one and five years, and $4 million with contractual maturities of more
than five years.  Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities as a
result of EchoStar's ability to sell these securities prior to maturity.
     
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Fair values for EchoStar's 1994 Notes, 1996 Notes, 1997 Notes (as defined,
see Note 5) and Series B Preferred Stock (as defined, see Note 7) are based on
quoted market prices.  The fair values of EchoStar's mortgages and other notes
payable are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses.  The interest rates
assumed in such discounted cash flow analyses reflect interest rates currently
being offered for loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit
quality.  The following table summarizes the book and fair values of EchoStar's
debt facilities and Series B Preferred Stock at December 31, 1997 (in
thousands):


                                     F-11

                                       
                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTNG POLICIES - CONTINUED

INVENTORIES

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value.  Cost is 
determined using the first-in, first-out method.  Proprietary products are 
manufactured by outside suppliers to EchoStar's specifications.  Manufactured 
inventories include materials, labor and manufacturing overhead.  Cost of 
other inventories includes parts, contract manufacturers' delivered price, 
assembly and testing labor, and related overhead, including handling and 
storage costs. Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):



PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are stated at cost.  Cost includes interest 
capitalized of $25 million, $26 million and $32 million during the years 
ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.  The costs of 
satellites under construction are capitalized during the construction phase, 
assuming the eventual successful launch and in-orbit operation of the 
satellite.  If a satellite were to fail during launch or while in-orbit, the 
resultant loss would be charged to expense in the period such loss was 
incurred.  The amount of any such loss would be reduced to the extent of 
insurance proceeds received as a result of the launch or in-orbit failure.  
Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis for financial reporting 
purposes.  Repair and maintenance costs are charged to expense when incurred. 
Renewals and betterments are capitalized.

     EchoStar reviews its long-lived assets and identifiable assets to be 
held and used for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  For 
assets which are held and used in operations, the asset would be impaired if 
the book value of the asset exceeded the undiscounted future cash flows 
related to the asset. For those assets which are to be disposed of, the 
assets would be impaired to the extent the fair value does not exceed the 
book value.  EchoStar considers relevant cash flow, estimated future 
operating results, trends and other available information including the fair 
value of frequency rights owned, in assessing whether the carrying value of 
assets can be recovered.

FCC AUTHORIZATIONS

     FCC authorizations are recorded at cost and amortized using the 
straight-line method over a period of 40 years.  Such amortization commences 
at the time the related satellite becomes operational; capitalized costs are 
written off at the time efforts to provide services are abandoned.  FCC 
authorizations include interest capitalized of $1 million, $6 million and $11 
million during the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.

                                       F-12

                                       
                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTNG POLICIES - CONTINUED

REVENUE RECOGNITION
     
     Revenue from the provision of DISH Network subscription television 
services and satellite services is recognized as revenue in the period such 
services are provided.  Revenue from sales of digital set-top boxes and 
related accessories is recognized upon shipment to customers.  Revenue from 
the provision of integration services is recognized as revenue in the period 
the services are performed.
     
SUBSCRIBER PROMOTION SUBSIDIES AND SUBSCRIBER ACQUISITION COSTS
     
     During 1996, in order to stimulate subscriber growth, EchoStar made a 
strategic decision to reduce the price charged to consumers for EchoStar 
Receiver Systems.  Accordingly, beginning in August 1996, EchoStar began 
selling its EchoStar Receiver Systems below its manufactured cost (the "1996 
Promotion").  The 1996 Promotion lowered the suggested retail price charged 
by independent retailers for a standard EchoStar Receiver System to $199 (as 
compared to the original average retail price prior to August 1996 of 
approximately $499), conditioned upon the consumer's one-year prepaid 
subscription to the DISH Network's America's Top 50 CD programming package 
for approximately $300.  The excess of EchoStar's aggregate costs (equipment, 
programming and other) over proceeds received pursuant to the 1996 Promotion 
was expensed ("subscriber promotion subsidies") upon shipment of the 
equipment. Remaining costs were deferred ("subscriber acquisition costs") and 
amortized over the term of the prepaid subscription (normally one year).  
Excluding expected incremental subscriber revenues, such as from premium and 
Pay-Per-View services, this accounting treatment results in revenue 
recognition over the initial prepaid period of service equal to the sum of 
programming costs (which are recognized as service is provided) and 
amortization of subscriber acquisition costs.  During the period from August 
1996 through May 1997, substantially all new subscriber activations resulted 
from the 1996 Promotion.

     The caption "DISH Network - Subscription Television Services" in the 
accompanying statements of operations includes revenues from the 1996 
Promotion equal to the advertised subscription rates for related DISH Network 
services. Incremental revenues realized from the 1996 Promotion are included 
in the caption "DISH Network - Other" and amounted to approximately $5 
million during 1996 and $40 million during 1997.

     During June 1997, EchoStar introduced the "1997 Promotion."  The 1997 
Promotion maintained the suggested retail price for a standard EchoStar 
Receiver System at $199, but eliminated the extended subscription commitment. 
Net transaction costs associated with the 1997 Promotion are expensed as 
incurred (reported as a component of subscriber promotion subsidies) in the 
accompanying statements of operations.  While some sales continue to be made 
under the terms of the 1996 Promotion, the majority of new subscriber 
activations have resulted from the 1997 Promotion since its introduction.  As 
a result, beginning in October 1997, net transaction costs resulting from the 
sale of EchoStar Receiver Systems pursuant to the 1996 Promotion also are 
expensed as incurred.  Consequently, no additional subscriber acquisition 
costs will be deferred.  The unamortized balance of such costs ($19 million 
at December 31, 1997) is expected to be fully amortized by September 1998.

DEFERRED DEBT ISSUANCE COSTS AND DEBT DISCOUNT

     Costs of completing the 1994 Notes Offering, the 1996 Notes Offering and 
the 1997 Notes Offering (as defined, see Note 5) were deferred and are being 
amortized to interest expense over their respective terms.  The original 
issue discounts related to the 1994 Notes and the 1996 Notes are being 
accreted to interest expense so as to reflect a constant rate of interest on 
the accreted balance of the 1994 Notes and the 1996 Notes.

                                     F-13

                                       
                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTNG POLICIES - CONTINUED

DEFERRED REVENUE

     Deferred revenue principally consists of prepayments received from 
subscribers for DISH Network programming.  Such amounts are recognized as 
revenue in the period the programming is provided to the subscriber.

LONG-TERM DEFERRED SATELLITE SERVICES REVENUE

     Long-term deferred satellite services  revenue consists of advance 
payments from certain content providers for carriage of their signal on the 
DISH Network.  Such amounts are deferred and recognized as revenue on a 
straight-line basis over the related contract terms (up to ten years).

ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses consist of the following (in thousands):



ADVERTISING COSTS

     Advertising costs, exclusive of subscriber promotion subsidies, are 
expensed as incurred and totaled $2 million, $18 million and $35 million for 
the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.
     
NET LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON SHARES

     In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("FAS") No. 128, "Earnings Per 
Share" ("FAS No. 128").  FAS No. 128 replaced the calculation of primary and 
fully diluted earnings per share with basic and diluted earnings per share. 
Unlike primary earnings per share, basic earnings per share excludes any 
dilutive effects of options, warrants and convertible securities.  Diluted 
earnings per share is very similar to the previously reported fully diluted 
earnings per share. 

                                      F-14


                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTNG POLICIES - CONTINUED


     Earnings per share amounts for all periods are presented below in 
accordance with the requirements of FAS No. 128.



     As of December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, options to purchase 
approximately 1,117,000, 1,025,000 and 1,525,000 shares of Class A Common 
Stock were outstanding, respectively.  Additionally, a total of approximately 
102,000, 3,000 and 2,000 Warrants were outstanding as of December 31, 1995, 
1996, and 1997, respectively.  These common stock equivalents (employee stock 
options and warrants) are excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per 
share as they are antidilutive.  Additionally, securities which are 
convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock (8% Series A Cumulative 
Preferred Stock and 6-3/4% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock) 
also are excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share as they are 
antidilutive.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the FASB issued FAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" ("FAS No. 130"), which establishes standards for reporting and display
of comprehensive income and its components (revenues, expenses, gains and
losses) in a full set of general-purpose financial statements. In June 1997,
the FASB issued FAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" ("FAS No. 131") which establishes standards for reporting
information about operating segments in annual financial statements of public
business enterprises and requires that those enterprises report selected
information about operating segments in interim financial reports issued to
shareholders and for related disclosures about products and services,
geographic areas, and major customers.  FAS No. 130 and FAS No. 131 are
effective for financial statements for periods beginning after December 15,
1997.  The adoption of FAS No. 130 and FAS No. 131 may require additional
disclosure in EchoStar's financial statements.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain amounts from the prior years consolidated financial statements
have been reclassified to conform with the 1997 presentation.

                                      F-15

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

3.  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):


     Construction in progress consists of the following (in thousands):


     EchoStar III, which was launched in October 1997, commenced commercial
operation in January 1998.

4.   OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS

     Other noncurrent assets consist of the following (in thousands):



                                     F-16


                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

4.   OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS--CONTINUED

ACQUISITION OF DIRECT BROADCASTING SATELLITE CORPORATION
     
     During 1994, EchoStar acquired approximately 40% of the outstanding common
stock of Direct Broadcasting Satellite Corporation ("DBSC").  DBSC's principal
assets included an FCC conditional satellite permit and specific orbital slot
assignments for a total of 22 DBS frequencies.  Through December 1996, EchoStar
advanced DBSC a total of $46 million in the form of notes receivable to enable
DBSC to make required payments under its satellite (EchoStar III) construction
contract.  As of December 31, 1996, these notes receivable totaled $49 million,
including accrued interest of $3 million.  On January 8, 1997, EchoStar
consummated the merger of DBSC with a wholly-owned subsidiary of EchoStar ("New
DBSC").  EchoStar issued approximately 650,000 shares of its Class A Common
Stock to acquire the remaining 60% of DBSC that it did not previously own.
This transaction was accounted for as a purchase and the excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of DBSC's tangible assets was allocated to DBSC's FCC
authorizations (approximately $16 million).  Upon consummation of the DBSC
merger, the notes receivable from DBSC were eliminated, on a consolidated
basis, in the related purchase accounting.
     
DBSI CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES
     
     During 1995 and 1996, EchoStar purchased a total of $5 million principal
amount of convertible subordinated debentures of DBS Industries, Inc. ("DBSI").
These debentures were secured by DBSC stock owned by DBSI.  In connection with
EchoStar's January 1997 merger with DBSC, DBSI exchanged its DBSC stock, which
secured the debentures, for 270,414 shares of EchoStar's Class A Common Stock.
As of August 1997, total principal, plus delinquent interest on the debentures,
totaled $6 million.  During August 1997, EchoStar foreclosed on the convertible
subordinated debentures, and reacquired and retired the 270,414 shares of its
Class A Common Stock, thereby reducing the debt by $5 million based on the
market value of EchoStar's Class A Common Stock at the time.
Contemporaneously, DBSI made a $1 million cash payment to EchoStar resulting in
full satisfaction and cancellation of the underlying debentures.

5.   LONG-TERM DEBT

1994 NOTES

     In June 1994, Dish, Ltd. completed an offering of 12 7/8% Senior Secured
Discount Notes due June 1, 2004 (the "1994 Notes") and Common Stock Warrants
(the "Warrants") (collectively, the "1994 Notes Offering").  The 1994 Notes
Offering resulted in net proceeds to Dish, Ltd. of $323 million (including
amounts attributable to the issuance of the Warrants (see Note 8) and after
payment of underwriting discounts and other issuance costs aggregating
approximately $13 million).
     
     The 1994 Notes bear interest at a rate of 12 7/8% computed on a semi-
annual bond equivalent basis.  Interest on the 1994 Notes will not be payable
in cash prior to June 1, 1999, with the 1994 Notes accreting to a principal
value at stated maturity of $624 million by that date.  Commencing December 1,
1999, interest on the 1994 Notes will be payable in cash on December 1 and
June 1 of each year.
     
     The 1994 Notes rank senior in right of payment to all subordinated
indebtedness of Dish, Ltd. and PARI PASSU in right of payment with all other
senior indebtedness of Dish, Ltd.  The 1994 Notes are secured by liens on
certain assets of Dish, Ltd., including EchoStar I, EchoStar II and all other
components of the EchoStar DBS System owned by Dish, Ltd. and its subsidiaries.
The 1994 Notes are further guaranteed by each material, direct subsidiary of
Dish, Ltd. (see Note 13).  Although the 1994 Notes are titled "Senior," Dish,
Ltd. has not issued, and does not have any current arrangements to issue, any
significant indebtedness to which the 1994 Notes would be senior.  The 1996
Notes and the 1997 Notes are effectively subordinated to the 1994 Notes and all
other liabilities of Dish, Ltd. and its subsidiaries.  Furthermore, at
December 31, 1997, the 1994 Notes were effectively subordinated to
approximately $9 million of 


                                     F-17

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

5.   LONG-TERM DEBT--CONTINUED

mortgage indebtedness with respect to certain assets of Dish, Ltd.'s 
subsidiaries, not including the EchoStar DBS System, and rank PARI PASSU with 
the security interest of approximately $30 million of satellite vendor 
financing.
     
     Except under certain circumstances requiring prepayment premiums, and in
other limited circumstances, the 1994 Notes are not redeemable at Dish, Ltd.'s
option prior to June 1, 1999.  Thereafter, the 1994 Notes will be subject to
redemption, at the option of Dish, Ltd., in whole or in part, at redemption
prices ranging from 104.828% during the year commencing June 1, 1999, to 100%
of principal value at stated maturity on or after June 1, 2002, together with
accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.  On each of June 1,
2002, and June 1, 2003, Dish, Ltd. will be required to redeem 25% of the
original aggregate principal amount of 1994 Notes at a redemption price equal
to 100% of principal value at stated maturity thereof, together with accrued
and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.  The remaining principal of
the 1994 Notes matures on June 1, 2004.
     
     In the event of a change of control and upon the occurrence of certain
other events, as described in the indenture related to the 1994 Notes (the
"1994 Notes Indenture"), Dish, Ltd. will be required to make an offer to each
holder of 1994 Notes to repurchase all or any part of such holder's 1994 Notes
at a purchase price equal to 101% of the accreted value thereof on the date of
purchase, if prior to June 1, 1999, or 101% of the aggregate principal amount
thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of
purchase, if on or after June 1, 1999.
     
     The 1994 Notes Indenture contains restrictive covenants that, among other
things, impose limitations on Dish, Ltd. and its subsidiaries with respect to
their ability to: (i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) issue preferred
stock; (iii) apply the proceeds of certain asset sales; (iv) create, incur or
assume liens; (v) create dividend and other payment restrictions with respect
to Dish, Ltd.'s subsidiaries; (vi) merge, consolidate or sell
assets; (vii) incur subordinated or junior debt; and (viii) enter into
transactions with affiliates.  In addition, Dish, Ltd., may pay dividends on
its equity securities only if (1) no default is continuing under the 1994 Notes
Indenture; and (2) after giving effect to such dividend, Dish, Ltd.'s ratio of
total indebtedness to cash flow (calculated in accordance with the 1994 Notes
Indenture) would not exceed 4.0 to 1.0.  Moreover, the aggregate amount of such
dividends generally may not exceed the sum of 50% of Dish, Ltd.'s consolidated
net income (calculated in accordance with the 1994 Notes Indenture) from April
1, 1994, plus 100% of the aggregate net proceeds to Dish, Ltd. from the
issuance and sale of certain equity interests of Dish, Ltd. (including common
stock).

1996 NOTES

     In March 1996, ESBC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of ECC, completed
an offering (the "1996 Notes Offering") of 13 1/8% Senior Secured Discount
Notes due 2004 (the "1996 Notes").  The 1996 Notes Offering resulted in net
proceeds to ESBC of approximately $337 million (after payment of underwriting
discounts and other issuance costs aggregating approximately $13 million).  The
1996 Notes bear interest at a rate of 13 1/8%, computed on a semi-annual bond
equivalent basis.  Interest on the 1996 Notes will not be payable in cash prior
to March 15, 2000, with the 1996 Notes accreting to a principal amount at
stated maturity of $580 million by that date.  Commencing September 15, 2000,
interest on the 1996 Notes will be payable in cash on September 15 and March 15
of each year.  The 1996 Notes mature on March 15, 2004.

     The 1996 Notes rank PARI PASSU in right of payment with all senior
indebtedness of ESBC.  The 1996 Notes are guaranteed on a subordinated basis by
ECC, and are secured by liens on certain assets of ESBC, ECC and certain of
ECC's subsidiaries, including all of the outstanding capital stock of Dish,
Ltd., which currently owns substantially all of ECC's operating subsidiaries.
Although the 1996 Notes are titled "Senior:" (i) ESBC has not issued, and does
not have any current arrangements to issue, any significant indebtedness to
which the 1996 Notes would be senior; and (ii) the 1996 Notes are effectively
subordinated to all liabilities of ECC (except liabilities to general
creditors) and its other subsidiaries (except liabilities of ESBC), including
liabilities to general creditors.  As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar's
liabilities, exclusive of the 1996 Notes and the 1997 Notes, aggregated
approximately $882 million.  Further, net cash flows generated by the assets
and operations of ESBC's subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the


                                     F-18

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

5.   LONG-TERM DEBT--CONTINUED

obligations of the 1996 Notes only to the extent of allowable dividend payments
by Dish, Ltd. under the 1994 Notes Indenture.

     Except under certain circumstances requiring prepayment premiums, and in
other limited circumstances, the 1996 Notes are not redeemable at ESBC's option
prior to March 15, 2000.  Thereafter, the 1996 Notes will be subject to
redemption, at the option of ESBC, in whole or in part, at redemption prices
ranging from 106.5625% during the year commencing March 15, 2000, to 100% on or
after March 15, 2003 of principal amount at stated maturity, together with
accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.  The entire
principal balance of the 1996 Notes will mature on March 15, 2004.

     The indenture related to the 1996 Notes (the "1996 Notes Indenture")
contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, impose limitations on
ESBC with respect to its ability to: (i) incur additional indebtedness;
(ii) issue preferred stock; (iii) sell assets and apply the proceeds thereof;
(iv) create, incur or assume liens; (v) create dividend and other payment
restrictions with respect to ESBC's subsidiaries; (vi) merge, consolidate or
sell substantially all of its assets; and (vii) enter into transactions with
affiliates.  The 1996 Notes Indenture permits ESBC to pay dividends and make
other distributions to DBS Corp without restrictions.
     
     In the event of a change of control, as described in the 1996 Notes
Indenture, ESBC will be required to make an offer to each holder of 1996 Notes
to repurchase all of such holder's 1996 Notes at a purchase price equal to 101%
of the accreted value thereof on the date of purchase, if prior to March 15,
2000, or 101% of the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity thereof,
together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of purchase, if
on or after March 15, 2000.

1997 NOTES

     In June 1997, DBS Corp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ECC, consummated an
offering (the "1997 Notes Offering") of 12 1/2% Senior Secured Notes due 2002
(the "1997 Notes").  The 1997 Notes Offering resulted in net proceeds to DBS
Corp of approximately $363 million (after payment of underwriting discounts and
other issuance costs aggregating approximately $12 million).  Interest accrues
on the 1997 Notes at a rate of 12 1/2% and is payable in cash semi-annually on
January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing January 1, 1998.  Approximately
$109 million of the net proceeds of the 1997 Notes Offering were placed in the
Interest Escrow to fund the first five semi-annual interest payments (through
January 1, 2000).  Additionally, approximately $112 million of the net proceeds
of the 1997 Notes Offering were placed in the Satellite Escrow to fund the
construction, launch and insurance of EchoStar IV.  The 1997 Notes mature on
July 1, 2002.
     
     The 1997 Notes rank PARI PASSU in right of payment with all senior
indebtedness of DBS Corp.  The 1997 Notes are guaranteed on a subordinated
basis by ECC (the "EchoStar Guarantee") and, contingent upon the occurrence of
certain events, will be guaranteed by ESBC, Dish, Ltd., and certain other
subsidiaries of DBS Corp and ECC.  The 1997 Notes are secured by liens on the
capital stock of DBS Corp, EchoStar IV, and certain other assets of DBS Corp.
Although the 1997 Notes are titled "Senior:" (i) DBS Corp has not issued, and
does not have any plans to issue, any indebtedness to which the 1997 Notes
would be senior; and (ii) the 1997 Notes are effectively subordinated to all
liabilities of DBS Corp's subsidiaries, including the 1994 Notes, the 1996
Notes, and liabilities to general creditors (except to the extent that any
subsidiary of DBS Corp may guarantee the 1997 Notes) and the EchoStar Guarantee
is subordinated to all liabilities of ECC (except liabilities to general
creditors).  As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar's liabilities, exclusive of the
1997 Notes, aggregated approximately $1.3 billion.
     
     Except under certain circumstances requiring prepayment premiums, and in
other limited circumstances, the 1997 Notes are not redeemable at DBS Corp's
option prior to July 1, 2000.  Thereafter, the 1997 Notes will be subject to
redemption, at the option of DBS Corp, in whole or in part, at redemption
prices decreasing from 106.25% during the year commencing July 1, 2000 to 100%
on or after July 1, 2002, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to
the redemption date.


                                     F-19

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

5.   LONG-TERM DEBT--CONTINUED

     The indenture related to the 1997 Notes (the "1997 Notes Indenture") and
the Certificate of Designation for the Series B Preferred Stock (as defined,
see Note 7) contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, impose
limitations on the ability of DBS Corp to: (i) incur additional indebtedness;
(ii) issue preferred stock; (iii) apply the proceeds of certain asset sales;
(iv) create, incur or assume liens; (v) create dividend and other payment
restrictions with respect to DBS Corp's subsidiaries; (vi) merge, consolidate
or sell assets; (vii) incur subordinated or junior debt; and (viii) enter into
transactions with affiliates.  In addition, DBS Corp may pay dividends on its
equity securities only if: (1) no default shall have occurred or is continuing
under the 1997 Notes Indenture; and (2) after giving effect to such dividend
and the incurrence of any indebtedness (the proceeds of which are used to
finance the dividend), DBS Corps's ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow
(calculated in accordance with the 1997 Notes Indenture) would not exceed 6.0
to 1.0.  Moreover, the aggregate amount of such dividends generally may not
exceed the sum of the difference of cumulative consolidated cash flow
(calculated in accordance with the 1997 Notes Indenture) minus 150% of
consolidated interest expense of DBS Corp (calculated in accordance with the
1997 Notes Indenture), in each case from July 1, 1997 plus an amount equal to
100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds received by DBS Corp and its
subsidiaries from the issuance or sale of certain equity interests of DBS Corp
or EchoStar.
     
     In the event of a change of control, as defined in the 1997 Notes
Indenture, DBS Corp will be required to make an offer to repurchase all of the
1997 Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount
thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to the date of
repurchase.
     
MORTGAGES AND OTHER NOTES PAYABLE

     Mortgages and other notes payable consists of the following (in
thousands):



                                     F-20


                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

5. LONG-TERM DEBT--CONTINUED

     Future maturities of amounts outstanding under EchoStar's long-term debt 
facilities as of December 31, 1997 are summarized as follows (in thousands):



SATELLITE VENDOR FINANCING
     
     The purchase price for satellites is required to be paid in progress 
payments, some of which are non-contingent payments deferred until after the 
respective satellites are in orbit (satellite vendor financing).  EchoStar 
utilized $36 million, $28 million and $14 million of satellite vendor 
financing for EchoStar I, EchoStar II and EchoStar III, respectively.  The 
satellite vendor financing with respect to EchoStar I and EchoStar II is 
secured by substantially all assets of Dish, Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
(subject to certain restrictions) and a corporate guarantee of ECC.  The 
satellite vendor financing for EchoStar III is secured by an ECC corporate 
guarantee.  EchoStar also expects to use $13 million of satellite vendor 
financing, at a rate of 8.25%, for EchoStar IV.  The EchoStar IV satellite 
vendor financing will be due over a period of five years and will be secured 
by an ECC corporate guarantee.
     
6.   INCOME TAXES
     
     The components of the (provision for) benefit from income taxes are as 
follows (in thousands):



                                     F-21



                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

6. INCOME TAXES--CONTINUED

     As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar had net operating loss carryforwards 
("NOLs") for Federal income tax purposes of approximately $307 million.  The 
NOLs expire beginning in the year 2011.  The use of the NOLs is subject to 
statutory and regulatory limitations regarding changes in ownership.  FAS No. 
109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," requires that the potential future tax 
benefit of NOLs be recorded as an asset.  FAS No. 109 also requires that 
deferred tax assets and liabilities be recorded for the estimated future tax 
effects of temporary differences between the tax basis and book value of 
assets and liabilities.  Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation 
allowance if deemed necessary.
     
     In 1997, EchoStar increased its valuation allowance sufficient to fully 
offset net deferred tax assets arising during the year.  Realization of net 
deferred tax assets is not assured and is principally dependent on generating 
future taxable income prior to expiration of the NOLs.  Management believes 
existing net deferred tax assets in excess of the valuation allowance will, 
more likely than not, be realized.  EchoStar continuously reviews the 
adequacy of its valuation allowance.  Future decreases to the valuation 
allowance will be made only as changed circumstances indicate that it is more 
likely that not the additional benefits will be realized.  Any future 
adjustments to the valuation allowance will be recognized as a separate 
component of EchoStar's provision for income taxes.
     
     The temporary differences which give rise to deferred tax assets and 
liabilities as of December 31, 1996 and 1997 are as follows (in thousands):



                                     F-22


                        ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

6. INCOME TAXES--CONTINUED

       The actual tax benefit (provision) for 1995, 1996 and 1997 are 
reconciled to the amounts computed by applying the statutory Federal tax rate 
to income before taxes as follows:



7.   SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK
     
     In October 1997, EchoStar consummated an offering (the "Series B 
Preferred Offering") of 12 1/8% Series B Senior Redeemable Exchangeable 
Preferred Stock due 2004, par value $0.01 per share (including any additional 
shares of such stock issued from time to time in lieu of cash dividends, the 
"Series B Preferred Stock").  The Series B Preferred Offering resulted in net 
proceeds to EchoStar of approximately $193 million.  Each share of Series B 
Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share 
("liquidation preference"). Dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are 
payable quarterly in arrears, commencing on January 1, 1998.  EchoStar may, 
at its option, pay dividends in cash or by issuing additional shares of 
Series B Preferred Stock having an aggregate liquidation preference equal to 
the amount of such dividends.  On December 19, 1997, EchoStar declared a 
quarterly dividend on the Series B Preferred Stock, payable on January 2, 
1998 in additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock.  Accrued dividends at 
December 31, 1997 totaled approximately $6 million.
     
     EchoStar may, at its option, exchange all, but not less than all, of the 
shares of Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding for 12 1/8% Senior 
Exchange Notes due 2004 (including any such senior notes issued from time to 
time in lieu of cash interest, the "Senior Exchange Notes").  The Senior 
Exchange Notes, if issued, will bear interest at a rate of 12 1/8% per annum, 
payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, 
commencing with the first such date to occur after the date of the exchange.  
Interest on the Senior Exchange Notes may, at the option of EchoStar, be paid 
in cash or by issuing additional Senior Exchange Notes in an aggregate 
principal amount equal to the amount of such interest.  The indenture related 
to the Senior Exchange Notes, if issued, contains restrictive covenants which 
are substantially identical to the covenants contained in the 1997 Notes 
Indenture, including the entity to which the covenants apply.
     
     The Series B Preferred Stock will be subject to mandatory redemption in 
whole on July 1, 2004 at a price, payable in cash equal to the liquidation 
preference, plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends up to the date of 
redemption.  Early redemption may be made at the option of EchoStar.  On or 
before July 1, 2000, the Series B Preferred Stock is redeemable in cash, in 
whole or in part, at a price equal to the redemption price.  Redemption 
prices are expressed as a percentage of the liquidation preference and range 
from 112.125% to 102.0208% from July 2, 2000 through July 1, 2003.  
Accumulated and unpaid dividends also are payable at the redemption date.  
EchoStar is not obligated to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock until July 
1, 2004.



                                     F-23

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

7.   SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK--CONTINUED

     In the event that dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are in arrears
and are unpaid for four consecutive quarterly periods or six quarterly periods
(whether or not consecutive), or upon certain other events, then, in either
such case, the majority holders of the Series B Preferred Stock ("Majority
Holders") may vote, as a separate class, to elect two directors to the Board of
Directors.  In addition, the approval of the Majority Holders, voting as a
separate class, is required for any merger, consolidation or sale of
substantially all of the assets of EchoStar.

8.   STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)

COMMON STOCK

     The Class A, Class B and Class C Common Stock are equivalent in all
respects except voting rights.  Holders of Class A and Class C Common Stock are
entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled
to ten votes per share.  Each share of Class B and Class C Common Stock is
convertible, at the option of the holder, into one share of Class A  Common
Stock.  Upon a change in control of ECC, each holder of outstanding shares of
Class C Common Stock is entitled to ten votes for each share of Class C Common
Stock held.  ECC's principal stockholder owns all outstanding Class B Common
Stock and all other stockholders own Class A Common Stock.

     In November 1997, EchoStar consummated an offering of 3.4 million shares
of its Class A Common Stock (the "Common Stock Offering"), including the
exercise of a portion of the underwriters' over-allotment option in December
1997.  The Common Stock Offering resulted in net proceeds to EchoStar of $63
million.

PREFERRED STOCK
     
     Preferred Stock consists of the following (in thousands, except share
data):


8% SERIES A CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK
     
     Each share of the 8% Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series A
Preferred Stock") is convertible, at the option of the holder, into one share
of Class A Common Stock, subject to adjustment from time to time upon the
occurrence of certain events, including, among other things  (i) dividends or
distributions on Class A Common Stock payable in Class A Common Stock or
certain other capital stock; (ii) subdivisions, combinations or certain
reclassifications of Class A Common Stock; and (iii) issuance of Class A Common
Stock or rights, warrants or options to purchase Class A Common Stock at a
price per share less than the liquidation preference per share.  In the event
of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of EchoStar, the holders of
Series A Preferred Stock would be entitled to receive an amount equal to
approximately $12.13 per share as of December 31, 1997.


                                     F-24
 
                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

8.   STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)--CONTINUED

     The aggregate liquidation preference for all outstanding shares of Series
A Preferred Stock is limited to the original value of the Series A Preferred
Stock issued, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon.  As of December 31,
1997, the aggregate liquidation preference for all outstanding shares was $19.6
million.  Each share of Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to receive
dividends equal to 8% per annum of the initial liquidation preference for such
share.  Each share of Series A Preferred Stock automatically converts into
shares of Class A Common Stock in the event they are transferred to any person
other than certain permitted transferees.  Each share of Series A Preferred
Stock is entitled to the equivalent of ten votes for each share of Class A
Common Stock into which it is convertible.  Except as otherwise required by
law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock vote together with the holders of
Class A and Class B Common Stock as a single class.

SERIES C CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In November 1997, EchoStar offered and sold (the "Series C Preferred
Offering") 2.3 million shares of 6 3/4% Series C Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock (the "Series C Preferred Stock").  The Series C Preferred
Offering, after exercise by the underwriters of their 15% over-allotment
option, resulted in net proceeds to EchoStar of approximately $97 million.
Simultaneous with the closing of the Series C Preferred Offering, the
purchasers of the Series C Preferred Stock placed approximately $15 million
into an account (the "Deposit Account").  EchoStar recorded proceeds from the
Series C Preferred Offering net of the amount placed in the Deposit Account.
Between the date of issuance and November 2, 1999 (the date dividends begin to
accrue), EchoStar is accreting the proceeds from the Series C Preferred
Offering to the face amount of the Series C Preferred Stock issued ($115
million.)  The Deposit Account will provide a quarterly cash payment of
approximately $0.844 per share of Series C Preferred Stock (the "Quarterly
Return Amount"), commencing February 1, 1998 and continuing until November 1,
1999.  After that date, dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock will begin to
accrue.  EchoStar may, prior to the date on which any Quarterly Return Amount
would otherwise be payable, deliver a notice instructing the deposit agent: (i)
to purchase from EchoStar, for transfer to each holder of Series C Preferred
Stock, in lieu of the Quarterly Return Amount, that number of whole shares of
Class A Common Stock determined by dividing the Quarterly Return Amount by 95%
of the market value of the Class A Common Stock as of the date of such notice;
or (ii) defer delivery of the Quarterly Return Amount to holders of Series C
Preferred Stock on such quarterly payment date until the next quarterly payment
date or any subsequent payment date.  However, no later than November 1, 1999
(the "Deposit Expiration Date"), any amounts remaining in the Deposit Account,
as of such date, including amounts which have previously been deferred, will be
(i) paid to the holders of Series C Preferred Stock; or (ii) at EchoStar's
option, used to purchase from EchoStar for delivery to each holder of Series C
Preferred Stock that number of whole shares of Class A Common Stock determined
by dividing the balance remaining in the Deposit Account by 95% of the market
value of the shares of Class A Common Stock as of the date of EchoStar's
notice.

     Each share of Series C Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $50
per share.  Dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock will accrue from November
2, 1999, and holders of the Series C Preferred Stock will be entitled to
receive cumulative dividends at an annual rate of 6 3/4% of the liquidation
preference, payable quarterly in arrears commencing February 1, 2000.
Dividends may, at the option of EchoStar, be paid in cash, by delivery of fully
paid and nonassessable shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination
thereof.  Each share of Series C Preferred Stock is convertible at any time,
unless previously redeemed, at the option of the holder thereof, into
approximately 2.05 shares of Class A Common Stock, subject to adjustment upon
the occurrence of certain events.  The Series C Preferred Stock is redeemable
at any time on or after November 1, 2000, in whole or in part, at the option of
EchoStar, in cash, by delivery of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class
A Common Stock, or a combination thereof, initially at a price of $51.929 per
share and thereafter at prices declining to $50.000 per share on or after
November 1, 2004, plus in each case all accumulated and unpaid dividends to the
redemption date.


                                     F-25

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

8.   STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)--CONTINUED

WARRANTS

     In conjunction with the 1994 Notes Offering described in Note 5, EchoStar
issued 3,744,000 Warrants for the purchase of Dish, Ltd. Class A Common Stock.
Effective with the Merger (see Note 1), the Warrants became exercisable for
2,808,000 shares of ECC's Class A Common Stock.  The Warrants were valued at
$26 million.
     
     Each Warrant entitles the registered holder thereof, at such holder's
option, to purchase one share of ECC Class A Common Stock at a purchase price
of $0.01 per share (the "Exercise Price").  The Exercise Price with respect to
all of the Warrants was paid in advance and, therefore, no additional amounts
are receivable by EchoStar upon exercise of the Warrants.  As of December 31,
1997, Warrants to purchase 2,370 shares of EchoStar's Class A Common Stock (as
adjusted for the Exchange Ratio) remain outstanding.
     
9.   STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS
     
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
     
     In April 1994, EchoStar adopted a stock incentive plan (the "Stock
Incentive Plan") to provide incentive to attract and retain officers, directors
and key employees.  EchoStar has reserved up to 10 million shares of its Class
A Common Stock for granting awards under the Stock Incentive Plan.  All stock
options granted through December 31, 1997 have included exercise prices not
less than the fair market value of EchoStar's Class A Common Stock at the date
of grant, and vest, as determined by EchoStar's Board of Directors, generally
at the rate of 20% per year.
     
     A summary of EchoStar's incentive stock option activity for the years
ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997 is as follows:


     Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 are as
follows:



                                     F-26

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

9.   STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS--CONTINUED

     On July 1, 1997, the Board of Directors approved a repricing of
substantially all outstanding options with an exercise price greater than
$17.00 per share of Class A Common Stock to $17.00 per share.  The Board of
Directors would not typically consider reducing the exercise price of
previously granted options.  However, these options were repriced due to the
occurrence of certain events beyond the reasonable control of the employees of
EchoStar which significantly reduced the incentive these options were intended
to create.  The fair market value of the Class A Common Stock was $15.25 on the
date of the repricing.  Options to purchase approximately 256,000 shares of
Class A Common Stock were affected by this repricing.

ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     EchoStar has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," ("APB 25") and related
interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compensation plans.  Under
APB 25, because the exercise price of EchoStar's employee stock options is
equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant, no
compensation expense is recognized.  In October 1995, the FASB issued FAS No.
123, "Accounting and Disclosure of Stock-Based Compensation," ("FAS No. 123")
which established an alternative method of expense recognition for stock-based
compensation awards to employees based on fair values.  EchoStar elected to not
adopt FAS No. 123 for expense recognition purposes.

     Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required by FAS No. 123 and has been determined as if EchoStar had accounted
for its stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method prescribed
by that statement.  For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair
value of the options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period.
All options are initially assumed to vest.  Compensation previously recognized
is reversed to the extent applicable to forfeitures of unvested options.
EchoStar's pro forma net loss attributable to common shares and pro forma basic
and diluted loss per common share were as follows ( in thousands, except per
share amounts):


     The fair value of each option grant was estimated at the date of the grant
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:



                                     F-27

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

9.   STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS--CONTINUED

     The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable.  In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its stock-
based compensation awards.
     
10.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     During 1997, the Board of Directors and shareholders approved an employee
stock purchase plan (the "ESPP"), effective beginning October 1, 1997.  Under
the ESPP, EchoStar is authorized to issue a total of 100,000 shares of Class A
Common Stock.  Substantially all full-time employees who have been employed by
EchoStar for at least one calendar quarter are eligible to participate in the
ESPP.  Employee stock purchases are made through payroll deductions.  Under the
terms of the ESPP, employees may not deduct an amount which would permit such
employee to purchase capital stock of EchoStar under all stock purchase plans
of EchoStar at a rate which would exceed $25,000 in fair market value of
capital stock in any one year.  The purchase price of the stock is 85% of the
closing price of the Class A Common Stock on the last business day of each
calendar quarter in which such shares of Class A Common Stock are deemed sold
to an employee under the ESPP.  The ESPP shall terminate upon the first to
occur of (i) October 1, 2007 or (ii) the date on which the ESPP is terminated
by the Board of Directors.  During the fourth quarter of 1997, employees
purchased 4,430 shares of Class A Common Stock through the ESPP.

401(K) EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN

     EchoStar sponsors a 401(k) Employee Savings Plan (the "401(k) Plan") for
eligible employees.  Voluntary employee contributions to the 401(k) Plan may be
matched 50% by EchoStar, subject to a maximum annual contribution by EchoStar
of $1,000 per employee.  EchoStar also may make an annual discretionary
contribution to the plan with approval by EchoStar's Board of Directors,
subject to the maximum deductible limit provided by the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended.  EchoStar's cash contributions to the 401(k) Plan totaled
$177,000, $226,000 and $329,000 during 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.
Additionally, EchoStar contributed 55,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock in
1995 and 1996, (fair value of $1 million and $935,000, respectively) to the
401(k) Plan as discretionary contributions.  During 1998, EchoStar expects to
contribute 80,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock (fair value of
approximately $2 million) to the 401(k) Plan related to its 1997 discretionary
contribution.
     
11.  C-BAND AND OTHER REVENUE
     
     Effective January 1, 1998, EchoStar ceased operation of its C-band
programming business.  Consequently, the net result of EchoStar's C-band
programming business is reported as "C-band and other revenue" in the
accompanying statements of operations.  C-band and other revenue consists of
the following (in thousands):



                                     F-28

                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

12.  OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     EchoStar has contracted with Lockheed-Khrunichev-Energia-International,
Inc. ("LKE") for the launch of EchoStar IV from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in the
Republic of Kazakhstan, a territory of the former Soviet Union, utilizing a
Proton launch vehicle (the "LKE Contract").  The launch is currently expected
to occur in the Spring of 1998.  Either party may request a delay in the launch
period, subject to the payment of penalties based on the length of the delay
and the proximity of the request to the launch date.  During 1998, EchoStar
expects to expend approximately $68 million in connection with the construction
launch and insurance of EchoStar IV.  These expenditures will be funded from
the Satellite Escrow.
     
     EchoStar has filed applications with the Federal Communications Commission
("FCC") for authorization to construct, launch and operate a two satellite FSS
(fixed satellite service) Ku-band system and a two satellite FSS Ka-band
satellite system.  No assurance can be given that EchoStar's applications will
be approved by the FCC or that, if approved, EchoStar will be able to
successfully develop the FSS Ku-band or the Ka-band systems.  EchoStar believes
that establishment of the FSS Ku-band system or the FSS Ka-band system would
enhance its competitive position in the DTH industry.  In the event EchoStar's
FSS Ku-band or Ka-band system applications are approved by the FCC, additional
debt or equity financing would be required.  No assurance can be given that
such financing will be available, or that it will be available on terms
acceptable to EchoStar.

PURCHASE COMMITMENTS

     As of December 31, 1997, EchoStar's purchase commitments totaled
approximately $87 million.  The majority of these commitments relate to
EchoStar Receiver Systems and related components.  All of the purchases related
to these commitments are expected to be made during 1998.  EchoStar expects to
finance these purchases from existing unrestricted cash balances and future
cash flows generated from operations, if any.

OTHER RISKS AND CONTINGENCIES
     
     During February 1997, EchoStar and The News Corporation Limited ("News")
announced an agreement (the "News Agreement") pursuant to which, among other
things, News agreed to acquire approximately 50% of the outstanding capital
stock of EchoStar.  News also agreed to make available for use by EchoStar the
DBS permit for 28 frequencies at 110DEG. West Longitude purchased by MCI
Communications Corporation for over $682 million following a 1996 FCC auction.
During late April 1997, substantial disagreements arose between the parties
regarding their obligations under the News Agreement.

     In May 1997, EchoStar filed a Complaint requesting that the Court confirm
EchoStar's position and declare that News is obligated pursuant to the News
Agreement to lend $200 million to EchoStar without interest and upon such other
terms as the Court orders.  EchoStar also filed a First Amended Complaint
significantly expanding the scope of the litigation, to include breach of
contract, failure to act in good faith, and other causes of action.  EchoStar
seeks specific performance of the News Agreement and damages, including lost
profits based on, among other things, a jointly prepared ten-year business plan
showing expected profits for EchoStar in excess of $10 billion based on
consummation of the transactions contemplated by the News Agreement.


                                     F-29


                                       
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED

12.  OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES--CONTINUED

     In June 1997, News filed an answer and counterclaims seeking unspecified
damages.  News' answer denies all of the material allegations in the First
Amended Complaint and asserts numerous defenses, including bad faith,
misconduct and failure to disclose material information on the part of EchoStar
and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Charles W. Ergen.  The
counterclaims, in which News is joined by its subsidiary American Sky
Broadcasting, L.L.C., assert that EchoStar and Ergen breached their agreements
with News and failed to act and negotiate with News in good faith.  EchoStar
has responded to News' answer and denied the allegations in their
counterclaims.  EchoStar also has asserted various affirmative defenses.
EchoStar intends to vigorously defend against the counterclaims.  Discovery
commenced on July 3, 1997 and depositions are currently being taken.  The case
has been set for trial commencing November 1998, but that date could be
postponed.
     
     While EchoStar is confident of its position and believes it will
ultimately prevail, the litigation process could continue for many years and
there can be no assurance concerning the outcome of the litigation.
     
     EchoStar is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims which
arise in the ordinary course of its business.  In the opinion of management,
the amount of ultimate liability with respect to those actions will not
materially affect the financial position or results of operations of EchoStar.
     
13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS
     
     The following pages present the consolidating financial information for
EchoStar and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1997 and for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997.  See Note 5 for a more
complete description of the subsidiary guarantors of each of the 1997 Notes,
the 1996 Notes and the 1994 Notes.  Because the formations of EchoStar
(incorporated in 1995), DBS Corp (incorporated in 1996), and ESBC (incorporated
in 1996) were all accounted for as reorganizations of entities under common
control, the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows of Dish, Ltd.
for the year ended December 31, 1995 also represent the consolidated statements
of operations and cash flows of EchoStar, DBS Corp and ESBC.  Consolidating
financial information is presented for the following entities:

         Consolidated Dish, Ltd. (referred to as "Dish")
         ESBC Parent Company Only (referred to as "ESBC - PC")
         Consolidating and eliminating adjustments (referred to as "C&E")
         Consolidated ESBC (referred to as "ESBC")
         DBS Corp Parent Company Only (referred to as "DBS Corp - PC")
         Consolidated DBS Corp (referred to as "DBS Corp")
         ECC Parent Company Only (referred to as "ECC - PC")
         Other direct wholly-owned subs of ECC (referred to as "Other")
         Consolidated ECC (referred to as "ECC")


                                     F-30

                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSS--CONTINUED

13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS--CONTINUED

CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS - AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1996 (IN MILLIONS)



                                       F-31

                                       
                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS - CONTINUED

CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS - AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1997 (IN MILLIONS)






                                      
                       ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- CONTINUED


13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS -- 
     CONTINUED







                                      F-33


                                      
                       ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- CONTINUED


13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS -- 
     CONTINUED










                                      F-34


                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS - 
     CONTINUED

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 (IN 
MILLIONS)



                                        F-35

                                       
                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS - CONTINUED

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 (IN
MILLIONS)


                                      F-36

                     ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED


13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS - CONTINUED

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 (IN
MILLIONS)





                                      F-37
                                                                         
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION                      
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED             
                                                                               
13.  PARENT COMPANY ONLY AND CONSOLIDATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS--CONTINUED 

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 
(IN MILLIONS)


                                       F-38


                 ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

14.  OPERATIONS IN GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

EchoStar sells certain of its products on a worldwide basis and has 
operations in Europe and the Pacific Rim.  Information about EchoStar's 
operations in different geographic areas as of December 31, 1995, 1996 and 
1997 and for the years then ended, is as follows (in thousands):



                                             F-39
                                                                         
                      ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION                      
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--CONTINUED             
                                                                               
15. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

EchoStar's valuation and qualifying accounts as of December 31, 1995, 1996 
and 1997 are as follows (in thousands):


16.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     EchoStar's quarterly results of operations are summarized as follows (in 
thousands):

                                       F-40

