
10-K405
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC. 12/31/1999




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR
[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM __________ TO __________

                        Commission file number: 1-14267

                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)



      Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (954) 769-2400

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     As of February 28, 2000, the registrant had outstanding 175,481,842 shares
of Common Stock. At such date, the aggregate market value of the shares of the
Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$1,873,854,519.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III  Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement relative to the 2000
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Part IV  Portions of previously filed reports and registration statements.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     INDEX
                                  TO FORM 10-K




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

     We are a leading provider of services in the domestic non-hazardous solid
waste industry. We provide non-hazardous solid waste collection services for
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 151
collection companies in 24 states. We also own or operate 81 transfer stations
and 55 solid waste landfills.

     We had revenue of $1,838.5 million and $1,369.1 million and operating
income of $390.6 million and $284.3 million for the years ended December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively. The $469.4 million, or 34.3%, increase in revenue
and the $106.3 million, or 37.4%, increase in operating income from 1998 to 1999
are primarily attributable to our successful execution of our growth and
operating strategies described below.

     Our presence in high growth markets throughout the Sunbelt, including
Florida, Georgia, Nevada, Southern California and Texas, and in other domestic
markets that have experienced higher than average population growth during the
past several years supports our internal growth strategy. We believe that our
presence in these markets positions our company to experience growth at rates
that are generally higher than the industry's overall growth rate.

     Since 1995, we have acquired numerous solid waste companies with an
aggregate of over $1.7 billion in annual revenue. In September 1998, we agreed
to purchase 16 landfills, 11 transfer stations, 136 commercial collection routes
and related assets from Waste Management, Inc. By June 1999, we completed the
purchase for approximately $479.6 million in cash plus certain properties. In
July 1999, we entered into an agreement with Allied Waste Industries, Inc. to
acquire solid waste assets for approximately $230.0 million in cash. In October
1999, after failing to receive regulatory approval to acquire these assets, we
amended the agreement and agreed to acquire from Allied Waste one landfill
operation, five transfer stations and a subset of small container hauling assets
from four collection operations. In addition, we entered into an agreement with
Allied Waste for the simultaneous purchase and sale of other solid waste assets.
As of December 31, 1999, we have completed the purchase of certain assets for
approximately $19.7 million in cash. The closing of the remainder of the
transactions, which were pending as of December 31, 1999, are subject to
approval by various state and federal agencies, as well as the satisfaction of
customary closing conditions. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Business Combinations."

     We believe that we are well positioned to continue to increase our revenue
and operating income in order to enhance stockholder value.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

     Based on analyst reports and industry trade publications, we believe that
the United States non-hazardous solid waste services industry generated revenue
of approximately $37.0 billion in 1998, of which approximately 58% was generated
by publicly-owned waste companies, and 42% was generated by privately-held waste
companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities. Only four
companies generated the substantial majority of the publicly-owned companies'
total revenue of approximately $21.0 billion in 1998. However, according to
industry data, the domestic non-hazardous waste industry remains highly
fragmented as privately-held companies and municipal and local governmental
authorities generated total annual revenue of approximately $16.0 billion.

     We believe that in recent years there has been a trend toward rapid
consolidation in the solid waste collection industry, which has historically
been characterized by numerous small companies. We believe that this trend will
continue as a result of the following factors:

          Subtitle D Regulation.  Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and
     Recovery Act of 1976, as currently in effect, and similar state regulations
     have significantly increased the amount of capital,



     technical expertise, operating costs and financial assurance obligations
     required to own and operate a landfill and other solid waste facilities.
     Many of the smaller participants in our industry have found these costs
     difficult, if not impossible, to bear. Large publicly owned companies, like
     our company, have greater access to capital, and a lower cost of capital,
     available to finance such increased capital expenditures and costs relative
     to many of the privately-owned companies in the industry. Additionally, the
     required permits for landfill development, expansion or construction have
     become more difficult to acquire. Consequently, many smaller, independent
     operators have decided to either close their operations or sell them to
     larger operators with greater access to capital.

          Integration of Solid Waste Businesses.  By being able to control the
     waste stream in a market through the collection, transfer and disposal
     process, integrated solid waste companies gain a further competitive
     advantage over non-integrated operators. The ability of the integrated
     companies to both collect and dispose of solid waste, coupled with access
     to significant capital resources necessary for acquisitions, has created an
     environment in which large publicly owned integrated companies can operate
     more cost effectively and competitively than non-integrated operators.

          Municipal Privatization.  The trend toward consolidation in the solid
     waste services industry is further supported by the increasing tendency of
     a number of municipalities to privatize their waste disposal operations.
     Privatization of municipal waste operations is often an attractive
     alternative to funding the changes required by Subtitle D.

     These developments, as well as the fact that there are a limited number of
viable exit strategies for many of the owners and principals of numerous
privately held companies in the industry, have contributed to the overall
consolidation trend in the solid waste industry.

GROWTH STRATEGY

     Our strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and
enhancing stockholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. For
certain risks related to our growth strategy, see "Risk Factors."

- - INTERNAL GROWTH.  Our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining existing
  customers and obtaining commercial, municipal and industrial customers through
  our well-managed sales and marketing activities.

       Long-Term Contracts.  We seek to obtain long-term contracts for
  collecting solid waste in high-growth markets. These include exclusive
  franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and industrial
  contracts. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity to
  grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population
  growth in these markets. For example, we have secured exclusive, long-term
  franchise agreements in high-growth markets in Los Angeles and Orange
  Counties, California, Las Vegas, Nevada, Arlington, Texas and many areas of
  Florida. We believe that this positions our company to experience internal
  growth rates that are generally higher than our industry's overall growth
  rate. In addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term recurring
  revenue in growth markets, we are better able to protect our market position
  from competition and our business may be less susceptible to downturns in
  economic conditions.

       Sales and Marketing Activities.  We seek to manage our sales and
  marketing activities to enable our company to capitalize on our leading
  positions in many of the markets in which we operate. We currently have
  approximately 450 sales and marketing employees in the field, who are
  incentivized by a commission structure to generate high levels of revenue. For
  the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing and
  prospective commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. We
  emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing sales
  personnel.

- - ACQUISITION GROWTH.  As a result of the highly fragmented nature of the solid
  waste industry, we have been able to grow significantly through acquisitions.
  Our acquisition growth strategy focuses on the approximately $16.0 billion of
  revenue generated by privately-held solid waste companies and municipal and
  local governmental authorities in 1998. We believe that our ability to acquire
  many of the privately-held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in
  the solid waste industry, increasing capital require-



  ments as a result of changes in solid waste regulatory requirements and the
  limited number of exit strategies for these privately-held companies' owners
  and principals. We also seek to acquire operations and facilities from
  municipalities that are privatizing, which occurs for many of the same reasons
  that privately-held companies sell their solid waste businesses. In addition,
  we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and
  facilities that may be divested by other publicly-owned waste companies. In
  sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses on:

      - acquiring businesses that position our company for growth in existing
        and new markets,
      - acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining local
        management,
      - acquiring business in existing markets,
      - acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are
        privatizing, and
      - acquiring operations and facilities from publicly-owned companies that
        are divesting of assets.

       For certain risks involved with our acquisition growth strategy, see
  "Risk Factors -- We may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy,"
  " -- We may be unable to manage our growth effectively," and " -- Businesses
  we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities."

       Acquire Businesses Positioning the Company for Growth. In making
  acquisitions, we principally target high quality businesses that will allow
  our company to be, or provide our company favorable prospects of becoming, a
  leading provider of integrated solid waste services in markets with favorable
  demographic growth. Generally, we have acquired, and will continue to seek,
  solid waste collection, transfer and disposal companies that:

      - have strong operating margins,
      - are in growth markets,
      - are among the largest or have a significant presence in their local
        markets, and
      - have long-term contracts or franchises with municipalities and other
        customers.

       Although we are seeking to expand our operations to selected new markets
  where the potential for growth and further integration of operations exists,
  our primary focus is on acquisition efforts in our existing markets in the
  Sunbelt, including Florida, Georgia, Nevada, Southern California and Texas,
  and in other domestic markets that have experienced higher than average
  population growth during the past several years. We are, however, not limited
  to this target criteria for acquisitions, and may also acquire additional
  non-hazardous solid waste operations as opportunities arise. We continuously
  review possible acquisition candidates and are in discussions from time to
  time with one or more of such candidates. In September 1998, we entered into
  an agreement with Waste Management to purchase 16 landfills, 11 transfer
  stations and 136 commercial collection routes across the United States, as
  well as to obtain disposal agreements at various Waste Management disposal
  sites. With the completion of these acquisitions in June 1999, we have
  expanded our presence in four existing markets and have entered 16 new
  markets. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
  Results of Operations -- Business Combinations."

       Acquire Well-Managed Companies.  We also seek to acquire businesses that
  have experienced management teams that are willing to work with our company.
  We generally retain the local management of the larger acquired companies in
  order to capitalize on their local market knowledge, community relations and
  name recognition, and to instill their entrepreneurial drive at all levels of
  our operations. By furnishing the local management of such acquired companies
  with our financial and marketing resources and technical expertise, we believe
  that the acquired companies are better able to secure additional municipal
  franchises and other contracts. We believe that this will enable our company
  to grow internally acquired businesses at faster rates than the industry
  average.

       Acquire Business in Existing Markets.  Once we have a base of operations
  in a particular market, we focus on acquiring trucks and routes of smaller
  businesses that also operate in that market and surrounding markets, which are
  typically referred to as "tuck-in" acquisitions. We seek to consolidate the
  operations of such tuck-in businesses into our existing operations in that
  market. In addition, we seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and
  collection companies that operate in markets that we are already servicing in
  order to fully integrate our operations from collection to disposal. By doing
  so, we are able to increase our revenue



  and market share, lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, and
  consolidate duplicative facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies
  and economies of scale.

       Privatize Municipal Operations and Acquire Divested Operations.  We also
  seek to acquire solid waste collection operations, transfer stations and
  landfills that municipalities and other governmental authorities are
  privatizing. Many municipalities are seeking to outsource or sell these types
  of solid waste operations, as they lack the capital, technical expertise
  and/or operational resources necessary to comply with increasingly stringent
  regulatory standards and/or to compete effectively with private-sector
  companies. In addition, we have acquired, and will continue to seek to
  acquire, operations and facilities that may be divested by other
  publicly-owned waste companies. Since late 1998, each of Waste Management and
  Allied Waste Industries were forced to divest certain of their operations and
  facilities due to governmental antitrust reviews of their respective
  acquisitions of other large publicly-owned waste companies, and we acquired
  many of these divested operations and facilities. We believe that both of
  these companies may divest additional operations and facilities for various
  reasons, including to raise cash to pay down debt, to eliminate collection
  operations where they may lack appropriate disposal capacity or to eliminate
  disposal operations where they may lack appropriate collection volumes, or
  other reasons. We expect to be able to evaluate and bid on such opportunities
  as they may arise from time to time.

OPERATING STRATEGY

     We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to increase
operating margins and enhance stockholder value. Our operating strategy to
accomplish this goal is to:

     (1) utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our
         executive management,

     (2) utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing day-to-day
         operations,

     (3) integrate waste operations,

     (4) improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost efficiencies
         and asset utilization, and

     (5) achieve high levels of customer satisfaction.

     For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see "Risk Factors."

- - EXPERIENCED EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM.  We believe that we have one of the
  most experienced executive management teams in the solid waste industry.

       H. Wayne Huizenga, who has served as our Chairman since our initial
  public offering in July 1998, has over 25 years of experience in the solid
  waste industry. After several years of owning and operating private waste
  hauling companies in Florida, he co-founded Waste Management in 1971. From
  1971 to 1984, he served in various executive capacities with Waste Management,
  including President and Chief Operating Officer. By then, Waste Management had
  become the world's largest integrated solid waste services company. From 1987
  to 1994, Mr. Huizenga served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
  Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation, leading its growth from 19 stores to
  the world's largest video rental company. In August 1995, he became Chairman
  and Chief Executive Officer of AutoNation, our former parent company, which in
  three years has become the largest domestic automotive retailer with over 400
  car dealerships in 19 states.

       Harris W. Hudson, who has served as our Vice Chairman since our initial
  public offering, has over 35 years of experience in the solid waste industry.
  Mr. Hudson worked closely with Mr. Huizenga, from 1964 until 1982, at Waste
  Management and at the private waste hauling firms they operated prior to the
  formation of Waste Management. In 1982, Mr. Hudson retired as Vice President
  of Waste Management of Florida, Inc., a subsidiary of Waste Management. In
  1983, Mr. Hudson founded Hudson Management Corporation, a solid waste
  collection company in Florida, and served as its Chairman and Chief Executive
  Officer until it merged with AutoNation in August 1995. By that time, Hudson
  Management had grown to over $50.0 million in annual revenue, becoming one of
  Florida's largest privately-held solid waste collection



  companies based on revenue. Since August 1995, Mr. Hudson has served in
  various capacities with AutoNation, including as Chairman of its Solid Waste
  Group.

       James E. O'Connor, who has served as our Chief Executive Officer since
  December 1998, also worked at Waste Management from 1972 to 1978 and from 1982
  to 1998. During that time, he served in various management positions,
  including Senior Vice President in 1997 and 1998, and Area President of Waste
  Management of Florida, Inc., from 1992 to 1997. Mr. O'Connor has over 24 years
  of experience in the solid waste industry.

       James H. Cosman, our President and Chief Operating Officer, joined
  AutoNation as President of its Solid Waste Group in January 1997. Prior to
  joining AutoNation, Mr. Cosman was employed for over 24 years by
  Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc., a leading solid waste company that is now
  part of Allied Waste. During that time, he served in various management
  positions, including Regional Vice President -- Northern Region, from 1993 to
  1996.

       The other corporate officers with responsibility for our operational
  affairs have an average of over 17 years of management experience in the solid
  waste industry. Our five Regional Vice Presidents have an average of 19 years
  of experience in the industry, and our 19 Area Presidents have an average of
  23 years of experience in the industry.

- - DECENTRALIZED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE.  We maintain a relatively small corporate
  headquarters staff, relying on a decentralized management structure to
  minimize administrative overhead costs and to manage our day-to-day operations
  more efficiently. Our local management has extensive industry experience in
  growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and has substantial
  experience in their local geographic markets. Recently, we added a fifth
  region to our field organizational structure which will allow us to more
  efficiently and effectively manage the numerous new markets we entered into
  during the previous 18 months. The Regional Vice Presidents and Area
  Presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for
  operations within their geographic markets. Compensation for management within
  regions and areas is in large part based on the improvement in operating
  income produced in each manager's geographic area of responsibility. Starting
  January 1, 2000, compensation will also be based upon the cash flow generated
  in each manager's geographic area of responsibility. In addition, through
  long-term incentive programs, including stock options, we believe we have one
  of the lowest turnover levels in the industry for our local management teams.
  As a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive local knowledge,
  community relations and name recognition, we react rapidly to changes in our
  markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions
  and areas throughout our operations to improve operating margins.

- - INTEGRATED OPERATIONS.  By controlling waste streams from the point of
  collection through disposal, we seek to achieve a high rate of waste
  integration. We expect that our fully integrated markets generally will have a
  lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated
  markets. Through acquisitions and other market development activities, we
  create market specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or
  more collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. We consider
  acquiring companies which own or operate landfills with significant permitted
  disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volume. We also seek to
  acquire solid waste collection companies in markets in which we own or operate
  landfills. In addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations
  by constructing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills from time
  to time in markets in which we have significant collection operations or in
  markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. During the three
  months ended December 31, 1999, approximately 48% of the total volume of waste
  that we collected was disposed of at our own landfills. Because we do not have
  landfill facilities for all markets in which we provide collection services,
  we believe that through landfill and transfer station acquisitions and
  development we have the opportunity to increase our waste internalization rate
  and further integrate our operations. By further integrating operations in
  existing markets through acquisitions and development of landfills and
  transfer stations, we are able to reduce our disposal costs.

- - ECONOMIES OF SCALE AND COST EFFICIENCIES.  To improve operating margins, our
  management focuses on achieving economies of scale and cost efficiencies. The
  consolidation of acquired businesses into existing




  operations reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for routing,
  personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office
  administration. Generally, we are consolidating our administrative centers to
  reduce our general and administrative costs. We have reduced our selling,
  general and administrative expenses from 14.2% of revenue in 1996 to 9.6% of
  revenue in 1999, on a pro forma basis. In addition, our size allows our
  company to negotiate volume discounts for certain purchases, including waste
  disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties. Furthermore, we have
  taken steps to increase utilization of our assets. For example, to reduce the
  number of collection vehicles, drivers are paid incentive wages based upon the
  number of customers they service on each route. In addition, routes are
  frequently analyzed and rerouted to ensure that the highest number of
  customers are efficiently serviced over the fewest possible miles. By using
  assets more efficiently, operating expenses are lowered significantly.

- - HIGH LEVELS OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION.  Our goal of maintaining high levels of
  customer satisfaction complements our operating strategy. Our personalized
  sales process of periodically contacting commercial, industrial and municipal
  customers is oriented towards maintaining relationships and ensuring that
  service is being properly provided.

OPERATIONS

     Our operations primarily consist of the collection and disposal of
non-hazardous solid waste.

     Collection Services.  We provide solid waste collection services to
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers in 24 states through
151 collection companies. In 1999, the revenue we derived from collection
services was approximately one third from services provided to municipal and
residential customers, one third from services provided to commercial customers
and one third from services provided to industrial customers.

     Our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of
refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer
stations or directly to landfills. Residential solid waste collection services
are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally
secure by competitive bid and which give our company exclusive rights to service
all or a portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. These contracts
or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of
our exclusive franchises are for as long as 20 years. Residential solid waste
collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which
individual households contract directly with our company. The fees received for
subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors,
frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and cost of
disposal. In general, subscription residential collection fees are paid
quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service.

     In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our
customers with small waste containers or large waste containers commonly known
as "roll-off" containers. We also rent compactors to large waste generators.
Commercial collection services are generally performed under one to three-year
service agreements, and fees are determined by such considerations as:

     - market factors,
     - collection frequency,
     - type of equipment furnished,
     - the type and volume or weight of the waste collected,
     - the distance to the disposal facility, and
     - the cost of disposal.

     We also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction
facilities on a contractual basis with terms generally ranging from a single
pickup to as long as one year and we rent waste roll-off containers to
construction sites. We collect the containers or compacted waste and transport
them either to a landfill, where the waste is disposed of, or to a transfer
station.

     We own or operate 81 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these stations,
as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer
to trailers for transport to landfills, incinerators, recycling facilities or
other disposal sites.


     Also, we currently provide recycling services in certain markets primarily
to comply with local laws or obligations under our franchise agreements. These
services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the
provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial
customers.

     Disposal Services.  As of December 31, 1999, we owned or operated 55
landfills, which had approximately 7,381 permitted acres and total available
permitted disposal capacity of approximately 1.7 billion in-place cubic yards.
The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering
factors, requirements of regulatory authorities and the ability to expand sites
successfully. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste,
including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. See "-- Properties."

     Most of our existing landfill sites have the potential for expanded
disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. We monitor the
availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and
evaluate whether to pursue expansion at a given landfill based on estimated
future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining
expansion. We believe that each of our landfills has adequate permitted
capacity. To satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand
permitted capacity at certain of our landfills, although no assurances can be
made that all future expansions will be permitted as designed.

     Other Services.  We have materials recovery facilities and other recycling
operations, which are generally required to fulfill our obligations under
long-term municipal contracts for residential collection services. These
facilities primarily sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials.
Most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential
collection operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid
waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-
recyclable waste. The recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to
third parties and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or
incinerators. Wherever possible, our strategy is to reduce our exposure to
fluctuations in recyclable commodity prices by utilizing third party facilities,
thereby minimizing our recycling investment. We use long-term contracts for the
sale of recycling materials to mitigate the impact of commodity price
fluctuations. We also have composting operations at which yard waste is
composted, packaged and sold as mulch.

SALES AND MARKETING

     We seek to provide quality services that will enable our company to
maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. We derive our business from a
broad customer base which we believe will enable our company to experience
stable growth. We focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding
business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers.

     We employ approximately 450 sales and marketing employees. Our sales and
marketing strategy is to provide high-quality comprehensive solid waste
collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at
competitive prices. We target potential customers of all sizes, from small
quantity generators to large "Fortune 500" companies and municipalities.

     All our marketing activity is local in nature. We generally do not change
the tradenames of the local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not
operate nationally under any one mark or tradename. Rather, we rely on the
goodwill associated with the acquired companies' local tradenames as used in
each geographic market in which we operate.

CUSTOMERS

     We provide services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential
customers. No one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated revenue in any of the last three years.

REGULATION

     Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state
and local requirements which regulate health, safety, the environment, zoning
and land use. Operating and other permits are generally required for landfills,
certain waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that
we own or


operate, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal.
Federal, state and local regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or
stormwater discharges, air emissions, the treatment, storage, transportation and
disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and the remediation of
contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances. These
regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement,
which include the ability to obtain injunctions and/or impose fines or penalties
in the case of violations, including criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and various other federal, state and local environmental,
health and safety agencies and authorities, including the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor, administer these
regulations.

     We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. However, in the existing climate of heightened environmental
concerns, from time to time, we have been issued citations or notices from
governmental authorities which have resulted in the need to expend funds for
remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities.
There is no assurance that citations and notices will not be issued in the
future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established a reserve
which we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to
cover any potential regulatory costs. However, we cannot assure you that actual
costs will not exceed our reserve.

     Federal Regulation.  The following summarizes the primary environmental and
safety-related federal statutes of the United States affecting our facilities
and operations:

          (1) The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource
     Conservation and Recovery Act. The RCRA and its implementing regulations
     establish a framework for regulating the handling, transportation,
     treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid
     wastes, and require states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal
     of solid wastes in sanitary landfills.

          Subtitle D of the RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
     disposal of municipal solid wastes. Regulations under Subtitle D currently
     include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and
     guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating
     criteria, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance
     standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
     standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or enforced in the
     past in connection with municipal solid waste landfills. Each state was
     required to submit a permit program designed to implement Subtitle D
     regulations to the EPA by April 9, 1993. These state permit programs may
     include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of
     Subtitle D. Some states have not yet fully implemented permit programs
     pursuant to the RCRA and Subtitle D. Once a state has an approved permit
     program it is required to review all existing landfill permits to ensure
     compliance with the new regulations.

          All of our planned landfill expansions or new landfill development
     projects have been engineered to meet or exceed Subtitle D requirements.
     Operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to
     comply with these new regulations. Compliance with the Subtitle D
     regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require
     substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
     associated with our waste management activities.

          (2) The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
     Liability Act of 1980. CERCLA, among other things, provides for the cleanup
     of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous
     substance into the environment. This Act may impose strict, joint and
     several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural
     resources upon current owners and operators of the site, parties who were
     owners or operators of the site at the time the hazardous substances were
     disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substance to the site
     and parties who arranged for disposal at the site. Under the authority of
     this Act and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to
     the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and
     sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released
     into the environment. Liability under this Act is not dependent upon the
     existence or disposal of "hazardous wastes" but can also be based upon the
     existence of small quantities of more than 700 "substances" characterized
     by the EPA as "hazardous," many of which may be found in common household
     waste.


          Among other things, this Act authorizes the federal government to
     investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or
     are threatened to be released into the environment, or to order (or offer
     an opportunity to) persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the
     hazardous substances to do so. In addition, the EPA has established a
     National Priorities List of sites at which hazardous substances have been
     or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or
     cleanup.

          Liability under CERCLA is not dependent upon the intentional disposal
     of hazardous wastes. It can be founded upon the release or threatened
     release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action,
     of thousands of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of
     such substances. Thus, even if our landfills have never knowingly received
     hazardous wastes as such, it is possible that one or more hazardous
     substances may have been deposited or "released" at our landfills or at
     other properties which we may have owned or operated. Therefore, we could
     be liable under CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous
     substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if
     those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or
     operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive. Given
     the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
     liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business and
     financial condition. For a further discussion, see "-- Liability Insurance
     and Bonding."

          (3) The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972. This Act
     regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including
     solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters. Point
     source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged
     into surface waters must be covered by discharge permits that generally
     require us to conduct sampling and monitoring and, under certain
     circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm
     water discharge regulations under this Act require a permit for certain
     construction activities, which may affect our operations. If a landfill or
     transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a
     publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge
     limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt
     groundwater protection programs under this Act or the Safe Drinking Water
     Act that could affect solid waste landfills. Furthermore, development which
     alters or affects "wetlands" must generally be permitted prior to such
     development commencing, and certain mitigation requirements may be required
     by the permitting agencies.

          (4) The Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on
     emissions from various sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the EPA
     enacted rules that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install
     landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to landfills that
     have been operating since November 1987, and that can accommodate 2.5
     million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. The regulations
     apply whether the landfill is active or closed. The date by which each
     affected landfill must have the required gas collection and control system
     is dependent upon the adoption of state regulations and the date the EPA
     approves the state program. Many state regulatory agencies currently
     require monitoring systems for the collection and control of landfill gas.
     We do not expect that compliance with any new state regulations will have a
     material effect on us.

          (5) The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. This act
     authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to promulgate
     occupational safety and health standards. Various of these standards,
     including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of
     asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations.

     State Regulation.  Each state in which we operate has its own laws and
regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution and, in most
cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liability for such
matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation,
maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Our facilities and
operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. In addition,
our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend
in many states toward requiring the development of waste reduction and recycling
programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or
municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through waste planning,
composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in
landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of
certain wastes, including yard waste,



newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries and
household appliances in solid waste landfills have been promulgated in several
states and are being considered in others. Legislative and regulatory measures
to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also
are under consideration by Congress and the EPA.

     In order to construct, expand and operate a landfill, one or more
construction or operating permits, as well as zoning approvals, must be
obtained. These are difficult and time-consuming to obtain, are often opposed by
neighboring landowners and citizens' groups, may be subject to periodic renewal
and are subject to modification and revocation by the issuing agency. In
connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion
has been necessary for our company to expend considerable time, effort and money
to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements
and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.

     Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks which are
generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally
subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their
periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal and that, in the event of
leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe
that all our underground storage tanks currently meet federal regulations. If
underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, and the leakage migrates onto
the property of others, we could be liable for response costs and other damages
to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance
with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material
adverse effect on our business or financial condition.

     Finally, with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are
subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission and are
regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers and by
regulatory agencies in each state. Various states have enacted, or are
considering enacting, laws and regulations that would restrict the interstate
transportation and processing of solid waste. In 1978, the United States Supreme
Court held similar laws and regulations unconstitutional; however, states have
attempted to distinguish proposed laws and regulations from the laws and
regulations involved in that ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that state
and local flow control laws and ordinances, which attempt to restrict waste from
leaving its place of generation, were an impermissible burden on interstate
commerce, and therefore, were unconstitutional. In response to these Supreme
Court rulings, Congress has considered passing legislation authorizing states
and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate
commerce. If federal legislation authorizing state and local governments to
restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate commerce is enacted,
such legislation could adversely affect our operations.

     We have established a reserve for environmental and landfill costs, which
includes landfill site closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess
such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace
and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of the RCRA and adjust our rates
used to expense closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current
information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our reserves for such
environmental and landfill expenditures are adequate. However, environmental
laws may change, and there can be no assurance that our reserves will be
adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental regulations,
future changes or interpretations of existing regulations or the identification
of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Landfill and Environmental Matters" and "Risk
Factors -- Compliance with environmental regulation may impede our growth."

COMPETITION

     We operate in a highly competitive industry, which is changing as a result
of rapid consolidation. Entry into our business and the ability to operate
profitably in the industry requires substantial amounts of capital and
managerial experience.

     Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few
large, national publicly-owned companies, including Waste Management and Allied
Waste, several regional publicly- and privately-owned solid waste companies, and
from thousands of small privately-owned companies in their respective markets.
Some of our competitors have significantly larger operations, and may have
significantly greater financial


resources, than we do. In addition to national and regional firms and numerous
local companies, we compete with those municipalities that maintain waste
collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have financial
advantages due to the availability of tax revenues and tax-exempt financing.

     We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the
quality of our services. From time to time, our competitors may reduce the price
of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively
bid municipal contract. This may have an impact on our future profitability.

     In each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for
landfill business on the basis of disposal costs, geographical location and
quality of operations. Our ability to obtain landfill business may be limited by
the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to
which they send their waste. There also has been an increasing trend at the
state and local levels to mandate waste reduction at the source and to prohibit
the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills. This
may result in the volume of waste going to landfills being reduced in certain
areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills at their full
capacity and/or affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal
services. In addition, most of the states in which we operate landfills have
adopted plans or requirements that set goals for specified percentages of
certain solid waste items to be recycled.

LIABILITY INSURANCE AND BONDING

     The nature of our business exposes our company to the risk of liabilities
arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment.
Such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation
costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases
where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of
employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage
occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence or
professional errors and omissions in the planning or performance of work. We
could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection
with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and
scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in
environmental litigation can be significant. The majority of our solid waste
operations have third party environmental liability insurance with limits in
excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations
and exclusions. However, we cannot assure you that the limits of such
environmental liability insurance would be adequate in the event of a major
loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry environmental
liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such
coverage costs prohibitive.

     We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices
liability, pollution liability, directors and officer liability, workers
compensation and employer's liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability
policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in
these primary policies. We also carry property insurance. Although we try to
operate safely and prudently and while we have, subject to limitations and
exclusions, substantial liability insurance, no assurance can be given that we
will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

     Our insurance programs for worker's compensation, general liability,
vehicle liability and employee related health care benefits are effectively
self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully insured.
Accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not
reported.

     In the normal course of business, we may be required to post performance
bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit and/or cash deposits in connection
with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or
post-closure of landfills, certain remediation contracts, certain environmental
permits and certain business licenses and permits. Bonds issued by surety
companies operate as a financial guarantee of our performance. To date, we have
satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash deposits or by
obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds.



EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 1999, we employed approximately 12,000 full time
employees, approximately 2,600 of whom were covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Our management believes that we have good relations with our
employees.

CORPORATE HISTORY

     We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1998 by our former parent
company, AutoNation, Inc. In 1995, H. Wayne Huizenga, Harris W. Hudson and their
associates made an investment in AutoNation, then known as Republic Waste
Industries, Inc., and AutoNation subsequently acquired businesses in several
industries, including automotive dealerships and car rental businesses in
addition to over 100 non-hazardous solid waste companies. In 1998, AutoNation
separated its non-hazardous solid waste services division from its other
businesses by forming our company and we completed an initial public offering of
shares of our common stock. In 1999, AutoNation sold substantially all of its
remaining interest in our company in a secondary public offering.

RISK FACTORS

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes "forward-looking statements'
within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, including, in particular, certain statements about our plans,
strategies and prospects. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and
expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are
reasonable, we cannot assure you that such plans, intentions or expectations
will be achieved. Important factors that could cause our actual results to
differ materially from our forward-looking statements include those set forth in
this Risk Factors section. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or
any persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by
the cautionary statements set forth below. Unless the context requires
otherwise, all references to the "company," "we," "us" or "our" include Republic
Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

     If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or
that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events,
then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could
be materially adversely affected.

WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY AND MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE
EFFECTIVELY.

     We operate in a highly competitive business environment. Some of our
competitors have significantly larger operations and may have significantly
greater financial resources than we do. In addition, the solid waste industry is
constantly changing as a result of rapid consolidation which may create
additional competitive pressures in our business environment.

     We also compete with municipalities that maintain their own waste
collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have a financial
advantage over us as a result of the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt
financing.

     In each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for solid
waste volume on the basis of disposal or "tipping" fees, geographical location
and quality of operations. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our
landfills may be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also
own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. In markets in which we
do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a
disadvantage to fully integrated competitors.

     We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the
quality of services. From time to time our competitors may reduce the price of
their services in an effort to expand their market share or to win a
competitively bid municipal contract.

     As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively
from time to time.



WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EXECUTE OUR ACQUISITION GROWTH STRATEGY.

     Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability
to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability
to successfully consolidate the acquired operations into our business. The
consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired companies,
including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities,
the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings,
economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant
challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the
same time. In short, we cannot assure you that:

     - desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified,
     - we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified,
     - we will effectively consolidate companies which are acquired and fully or
       timely realize the expected cost savings, economies of scale or business
       efficiencies, or
     - any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings.

     Additional factors may negatively impact our acquisition growth strategy.
Our acquisition strategy requires spending significant amounts of capital. If we
are unable to obtain additional needed financing on acceptable terms, we may
need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could have a
material adverse effect on our growth prospects. The intense competition among
our competitors pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase
prices for solid waste businesses and increase our capital requirements and/or
prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. In addition, our
inability to account for acquisitions under the pooling of interests method of
accounting until May 2001 may impede our ability to complete some transactions.
If any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our
financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be
adversely affected.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY.

     Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial,
operational and management resources. In order to continue our growth, we will
need to add administrative and other personnel, and make additional investments
in operations and systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and
train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations
and systems to the extent, and in the time, required.

BUSINESSES WE ACQUIRE MAY HAVE UNDISCLOSED LIABILITIES.

     In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our investigations of the acquisition
candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the
acquisition candidates. If we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities,
as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. We
typically try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by obtaining
indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment
of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by
acquiring only specified assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be
able to obtain indemnifications or that they will be enforceable, collectible or
sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed
liabilities arising from our acquisitions.

WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL.

     Our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key
employees and officers. Most of our officers do not have employment agreements
and we do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers.
The loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is
through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional
qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and growth prospects.



COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION MAY IMPEDE OUR GROWTH.

     We may need to spend considerable time, effort and capital to keep our
facilities in compliance with federal, state and local requirements regulating
health, safety, environment, zoning and land use. In addition, some of our waste
operations that cross state boundaries could be adversely affected if the
federal government, or the state or locality in which these waste operations are
located, imposes discriminatory fees on, or otherwise limits or prohibits, the
transportation or disposal of solid waste. If environmental laws become more
stringent, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental
compliance may increase in the future. In addition, due to the possibility of
unanticipated events or regulatory developments, the amounts and timing of
future environmental expenditures could vary substantially from those we
currently anticipate. Because of the nature of our operations, we have in the
past, currently are, and may in the future be named as a potentially responsible
party in connection with the investigation or remediation of environmental
conditions. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any such investigations
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
operations. A significant judgment or fine against our company, or our loss of
significant permits or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or prospects.

REGULATORY APPROVAL TO EXPAND OUR LANDFILLS AND TRANSFER STATIONS MAY BE DELAYED
OR DENIED.

     Our plans include expanding the disposal and transfer capacities of certain
of our landfills and transfer stations, respectively. Various parties, including
citizens' groups and local politicians, remain active in challenging these
expansions. Responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs
and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding
existing facilities. In addition, failure to receive regulatory approval would
prohibit us from establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities.

OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ARE BASED UPON ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS THAT MAY
DIFFER FROM ACTUAL RESULTS.

     Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on
estimates and assumptions made by us. Actual results could differ from these
amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the
carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill
development costs, accruals for closure and post-closure costs, valuation
allowances for accounts receivable, liabilities for potential litigation, claims
and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, deferred taxes
and self-insurance.

     We currently accrue for landfill closure and post-closure costs based on
consumption of landfill airspace. As of December 31, 1999, assuming that all
available landfill capacity is used, we expect to expense approximately $528.4
million of landfill closure and post-closure costs over the remaining lives of
these facilities. We cannot assure you that our reserves for landfill and
environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing
environmental regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing
regulations or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
unknown to us.

POTENTIAL YEAR 2000 PROBLEMS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

     As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K we believe that all of
our systems are operating and we have not experienced any material issues from
the date change in the year 2000. Also, as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, we are unaware of any third party issues from the date change in the
year 2000 that would materially affect our financial condition or results of
operations. Nevertheless, if any issues from the data change in the year 2000
presently unknown to us occur with us or with third party products and business
dependencies, we may experience a delay or disruption in the delivery of
services which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
and results of operations including loss of revenue, increased operating costs,
loss of customers or suppliers, or other significant disruptions to our
business.



SEASONAL CHANGES AND ECONOMIC FLUCTUATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND
OPERATIONS.

     Our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather
which could delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of
waste generated or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
other facilities.

     Our commercial and industrial collection operations, and our landfills
which accept construction and demolition debris, may be adversely affected by
periods of economic downturn or declines in the construction industry.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EXTEND THE MATURITY OF OUR REVOLVING SHORT-TERM CREDIT
FACILITY.

     We have a revolving short-term credit facility in the principal amount of
$500.0 million which expires in July 2000. We anticipate extending the maturity
of this credit facility until July 2001. However, we cannot assure you that we
will receive such extension and, if so, whether such extension will be on terms
as favorable to us as those currently contained in the credit facility.

THE RESOLUTION OF CURRENT AND FUTURE LEGAL PROCEEDINGS MAY ADVERSLY AFFECT OUR
COMPANY.

     Our company currently is and will continue to be involved in a various
administrative and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. No
assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of these proceedings or the
effect such outcomes may have on us, or that our insurance coverages or reserves
with respect thereto are adequate. A significant judgment against us could have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. See "Legal and Administrative Proceedings".

THE OUTCOME OF AN AUDIT BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
COMPANY.

     Through the date of our initial public offering in July 1998, we filed
consolidated federal income tax returns with AutoNation. The Internal Revenue
Service is auditing AutoNation's consolidated tax returns for fiscal years 1995
and 1996. In accordance with the tax sharing agreement we have with AutoNation,
we may be liable for certain assessments imposed by the Internal Revenue Service
resulting from this audit. No assurance can be given with respect to the outcome
of this audit or the effect it may have on us, or that our reserves with respect
thereto are adequate. A significant assessment against us could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     Our corporate headquarters are located in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida in
premises leased from a third party. As of December 31, 1999, we operated
approximately 5,200 collection vehicles. Certain of our property and equipment
are subject to operating leases or liens securing payment of portions of our
indebtedness. We also lease certain of our offices and equipment. We believe
that our facilities are sufficient for our current needs.

     The following table provides certain information regarding the 55 landfills
owned or operated by us as of December 31, 1999:



- ---------------

(1) Operated but not owned by us.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     We are and will continue to be involved in various administrative and legal
proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We can give you no assurance
regarding the outcome of these proceedings or the effect their outcomes may
have, or that our insurance coverages or reserves are adequate. A significant
judgment against our company, the loss of significant permits or licenses, or
the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations or prospects.

     In September 1999, several lawsuits were filed by certain shareholders
against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The plaintiffs in these
lawsuits claim, on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock
between January 28, 1999 and August 28, 1999, that the defendants violated
Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of l934 by, among other
things, allegedly making materially false and misleading statements regarding
our growth and the assets we acquired from Waste Management. On December 29,
1999, the Court consolidated these lawsuits and the consolidated action has been
named In Re: Republic Services, Inc. Securities Litigation. The plaintiffs filed
a consolidated complaint on February 11, 2000. We believe the allegations
contained in the consolidated complaint are without merit and we will vigorously
defend this and any related actions. However, an unfavorable resolution of this
lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results
of operations or cash flow in one or more future periods.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to our stockholders during the fourth quarter of
1999.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION, HOLDERS AND DIVIDENDS

     Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on July 1,
1998.

     The following table sets forth the range of the high and low sales prices
of our common stock for the periods indicated:





     On February 28, 2000 the last reported sales price of our common stock was
$10 11/16.

     There were approximately 92 record holders of our common stock at February
28, 2000.

     We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the
foreseeable future because we intend to retain all earnings for use in the
operation and expansion of our business. Furthermore, our ability to declare or
pay dividends is limited by the terms of the revolving credit facility which
contains covenants that restrict the payment of cash dividends.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The following Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with
our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto as of December 31, 1999
and 1998 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected
statements of operations data and the other operating data for the years 1996
and 1995 and the selected balance sheet data at December 31, 1996 were derived
from our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by Arthur
Andersen LLP, independent certified public accountants. Our balance sheet data
at December 31, 1995 were derived from our unaudited consolidated financial
statements, which we believe reflect all adjustments, consisting of only normal
recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of this data. See Notes
1, 3 and 7 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
basis of presentation, business combinations and stockholders' equity and their
effect on comparability of year-to-year data.







- -------------------------

(a) Prior to our initial public offering on July 1, 1998, we had 100 shares of
    common stock outstanding, all of which were owned by AutoNation. Historical
    share and per share data have been retroactively adjusted for the
    recapitalization of our 100 shares of common stock into 95.7 million shares
    of common stock in July 1998.
(b) Pro forma basic and dilutive earnings per share exclude a $6.9 million
    pre-tax charge for costs related to our separation from AutoNation. They
    also exclude a $2.9 million loss on the sale of our only international
    operation, a collection and disposal business in Costa Rica.



(c) EBITDA represents operating income plus depreciation, amortization and
    depletion. While EBITDA data should not be construed as a substitute for
    operating income, net income or cash flows from operations in analyzing our
    operating performance, financial position and cash flows, we have included
    EBITDA data, which is not a measure of financial performance under generally
    accepted accounting principles, because we believe that this data is
    commonly used by certain investors to evaluate a company's performance in
    the solid waste industry. Due to the fact that not all companies calculate
    non-GAAP measures in the same manner, the EBITDA presentation herein may not
    be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
(d) EBITDA margin represents EBITDA divided by revenue.
(e) In July 1998, we repaid all amounts due to AutoNation as of June 30, 1998
    through the issuance of common stock and through all proceeds of our initial
    public offering.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our
Consolidated Financial Statements and their Notes contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. All references to historical share and per share data of
our common stock have been retroactively adjusted for the recapitalization of
the 100 shares of our common stock into approximately 95.7 million shares of
common stock in July 1998.

OUR BUSINESS

     We are a leading provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection and
disposal services in the United States. We provide solid waste collection
services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through
151 collection companies in 24 states. We also own or operate 81 transfer
stations and 55 solid waste landfills.

     We generate revenue primarily from our solid waste collection operations,
and our remaining revenue is from landfill disposal services and other services,
including recycling and composting operations.

     The following table reflects our total revenue by source for the year ended
December 31, 1999 (in millions):



     Our revenue from collection operations consists of fees we receive from
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our residential and
commercial collection operations in some markets are based on long-term
contracts with municipalities. We generally provide industrial and commercial
collection operations to individual customers under contracts with terms up to
three years. Our revenue from landfill operations is from disposal or tipping
fees charged to third parties. In general, we integrate our recycling operations
with our collection operations and obtain revenue from the sale of recyclable
materials. No one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated revenue in any of the last three years.

     The cost of our collection operations is primarily variable and includes
disposal, labor, fuel and equipment maintenance costs. We try to be more
efficient by controlling the movement of waste streams from the point of
collection through disposal. During the three months ended December 31, 1999,
approximately 48% of the total volume of waste we collected was disposed of at
our landfills.

     Our landfill cost of operations includes daily operating expenses, costs of
capital for cell development, accruals for closure and post-closure costs, and
the legal and administrative costs of ongoing environmental compliance. We
expense all indirect landfill development costs as they are incurred. We use
life cycle accounting and the units-of-consumption method to recognize certain
direct landfill costs. In life cycle accounting, certain direct costs are
capitalized and charged to expense based upon the consumption of cubic yards of
available airspace. These costs include all costs to:

     - acquire,
     - construct,
     - close and
     - maintain a site during the post closure period.



     Cost and airspace estimates are developed annually by independent engineers
together with our engineers. These estimates are used by our operating and
accounting personnel to annually adjust our rates used to expense capitalized
costs and accrue closure and post-closure costs. Changes in these estimates
primarily relate to changes in available airspace, inflation rates and
applicable regulations. Changes in available airspace include changes due to the
addition of airspace lying in expansion areas deemed likely to be permitted.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     We make decisions to acquire or invest in businesses based on financial and
strategic considerations. We have included businesses that we acquired and which
have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in our
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.

     In July 1999, we entered into a definitive agreement with Allied Waste
Industries, Inc. to acquire certain solid waste assets for approximately $230.0
million in cash. In October 1999, after failing to receive regulatory approval
relating to the acquisition of certain of the assets, the agreement was amended
for us to acquire certain solid waste assets for a purchase price of $71.0
million in cash. The assets to be acquired under the amended agreement include
one landfill operation, five transfer stations and a subset of small container
hauling assets from four collection operations. By December 31, 1999, we had
completed the purchase of certain assets for approximately $19.7 million in
cash. In addition, we entered into a definitive agreement with Allied Waste for
the simultaneous purchase and sale of certain other solid waste assets. All of
these transactions will be accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. The portion of these transactions that were not closed by December
31, 1999 were subject to approval by various state and federal agencies as well
as satisfaction of customary closing conditions.

     In September 1998, we signed an agreement with Waste Management, Inc. to
acquire assets and to enter into disposal agreements at various Waste Management
facilities. By June 1999, we had completed the purchase of the assets for
approximately $479.6 million in cash plus properties, $292.7 million of which
were acquired during the six months ended June 30, 1999. The assets purchased
included 16 landfills, 11 transfer stations and 136 commercial collection routes
across the United States, and were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting.

     In addition to the acquisitions from Allied Waste and Waste Management, we
also acquired various other solid waste businesses during year ended December
31, 1999, which were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The
aggregate purchase price we paid in these transactions was $430.8 million in
cash.

     Cost in excess of fair value of net assets acquired for 1999 acquisitions
totaled approximately $415.9 million. As of December 31, 1999, we had intangible
assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $1,297.3 million, which consist
primarily of the cost in excess of fair value of net assets acquired. We
amortize cost in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over forty
years on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 1999, the amortization
expense associated with these intangible assets on an annualized basis is
approximately $36.1 million. We believe the forty year life assigned to the cost
in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired is reasonable as the
businesses we acquired are generally well-established companies which have been
in existence for many years and have stable, long-term customer relationships.

     During the year ended December 31, 1998, AutoNation acquired various solid
waste businesses which it contributed to our company. The aggregate purchase
price AutoNation paid in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting was $128.3 million, consisting of cash and approximately 3.4 million
shares of AutoNation common stock. Subsequent to our initial public offering, we
acquired various solid waste businesses. The aggregate purchase price we paid in
transactions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting was $450.5
million consisting of cash and certain properties. Cost in excess of fair value
of net assets acquired for 1998 acquisitions totaled approximately $572.4
million.

     During the year ended December 31, 1997, AutoNation acquired various solid
waste businesses which it contributed to our company. The aggregate purchase
price AutoNation paid in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting was $147.9 million, consisting of cash and approximately 5.7 million



shares of AutoNation common stock. Cost in excess of the fair value of net
assets acquired in these acquisitions totaled $149.1 million. In addition,
AutoNation issued an aggregate of approximately 34.1 million shares of
AutoNation common stock in transactions accounted for under the pooling of
interests method of accounting. We have retroactively included significant
businesses that we acquired and accounted for under the pooling of interest
method of accounting in our consolidated financial statements as if the
companies had operated as one entity since inception. Included in the shares of
AutoNation common stock issued in acquisitions accounted for under the pooling
of interests method of accounting are approximately 0.3 million shares issued
for acquisitions that were not material individually or in the aggregate and,
consequently, prior period financial statements were not restated for such
acquisitions.

     See Note 3, Business Combinations, of the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, for further discussion of business combinations.

BACKGROUND

     In May 1998, AutoNation announced its intention to separate our company,
which at the time was a wholly owned subsidiary of AutoNation, from AutoNation,
and for our company to complete an initial public offering of common stock. As a
result, we entered into certain agreements with AutoNation providing for the
separation and governing various interim and ongoing relationships between our
company and AutoNation.

     As part of the separation, and prior to our initial public offering of
common stock, we declared and paid a $2.0 billion dividend in April 1998 to
AutoNation with a series of promissory notes. In addition, we owed AutoNation
approximately $139.5 million and owed Republic Resources Company, at that time a
subsidiary of ours, approximately $165.4 million, net of an approximate $90.5
million that Resources owed to our company. On June 30, 1998, we repaid $565.4
million of the promissory notes that we owed to AutoNation with cash, assets we
received from Resources and with the receivable that Resources owed to our
company. In addition, we distributed all of our shares of common stock of
Resources to AutoNation. We repaid the approximately $139.5 million we owed to
AutoNation and the approximately $255.9 million we owed to Resources by issuing
approximately 16.5 million shares of our common stock to AutoNation, and we
repaid the remaining balance of the promissory notes due to AutoNation with all
of the net proceeds from our issuance and sale of approximately 63.2 million
shares of common stock in our initial public offering completed in July 1998,
which totalled approximately $1.4 billion.

     Following our initial public offering and the repayment of amounts due to
AutoNation, AutoNation owned approximately 63.9% of the outstanding shares of
our common stock. Following the recapitalization of our common stock, repayment
of amounts due to AutoNation and our initial public offering, we had the
following shares of common stock outstanding (in millions):



     In March 1999, AutoNation exercised registration rights that it had with
our company in order to be able to sell its entire interest in our company,
consisting of approximately 112.2 million shares of common stock, and in May
1999, AutoNation sold substantially all of these shares of common stock in a
secondary public offering. We received no proceeds in the secondary public
offering.

     Prior to our initial public offering, our employees received options under
AutoNation's stock option plans. In March 1999, options to purchase
approximately 8.0 million shares of AutoNation common stock were cancelled and
were replaced, on a one-for-one basis, with options to purchase shares of our
common stock under our 1998 Stock Incentive Plan. These replacement options
retained the vesting and exercise rights of the original options, subject to
exercise limitations for individuals who signed stock option repricing
agreements with AutoNation. The individual replacement options were priced so
that the unrealized gain or loss on each of the AutoNation options was generally
maintained under the replacement options. The compensation



expense related to our granting of replacement options with exercise prices
below the quoted market price of the common stock at the date of grant was
approximately $2.0 million, which we recorded in the first quarter of 1999 as a
one-time charge to earnings.

     Prior to our initial public offering, we were a wholly owned subsidiary of
AutoNation. As a result, AutoNation provided us with various services including:

     - accounting,
     - auditing,
     - cash management,
     - corporate communications,
     - corporate development,
     - financial and treasury,
     - human resources and benefit plan administration,
     - insurance and risk management,
     - legal,
     - purchasing and
     - tax services.

     AutoNation also provided our company with the services of a number of its
executives and employees. In consideration for these services, AutoNation
allocated to our company a portion of its general and administrative costs
related to these services. Prior to the separation of the two companies this
allocation had historically been based on the proportion of our invested capital
as a percentage of the consolidated invested capital of AutoNation and its
subsidiaries, including our company. In June 1998, we entered into a services
agreement with AutoNation under which AutoNation agreed to continue to provide
various services to our company in exchange for a monthly fee of $1.25 million.
Effective January 1, 1999, we negotiated a reduction in this fee to $0.9 million
per month. The services agreement expired on June 30, 1999. Our management
believes that the amounts allocated to our company and/or charged under the
services agreement were no less favorable to our company than costs we would
have incurred to obtain such services on our own or from unaffiliated third
parties.

     We recorded other charges of $6.9 million for the year ended December 31,
1999. These costs relate to our separation from AutoNation. They consist of $2.0
million of compensation expense related to the granting of certain replacement
employee stock options at exercise prices below the quoted market price of our
common stock at the date of grant. See Note 8, Stock Options, of the Notes to
our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. They also consist
of $4.9 million of other additional charges directly related to our separation.
We do not anticipate incurring additional costs related to our separation from
AutoNation.

     The historical consolidated financial information included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect what our financial position and
results of operations would have been had we been operated as a separate,
stand-alone entity during the periods presented.

PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Our pro forma net income was $206.8 million, or $1.18 per share, for the
year ended December 31, 1999. Our pro forma operating results exclude a $6.9
million pre-tax charge for costs related to our separation from AutoNation. They
also exclude a $2.9 million loss on the sale of our only international
operation, a collection and disposal business in Costa Rica.

     See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, for further discussion of pro forma operating results.



CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

     Our net income was $200.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, as
compared to $153.7 million in 1998 and $116.2 million in 1997. Our operating
results for the year ended December 31, 1999 includes other charges further
described below.

     The following table summarizes our costs and expenses in millions of
dollars and as a percentage of our revenue for 1997 through 1999:



     Revenue.  Revenue was $1,838.5 million, $1,369.1 million and $1,127.7
million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Revenue increased by $469.4 million, or 34.3%, from 1998 to 1999. Revenue
increased by $241.4 million, or 21.4%, from 1997 to 1998. The following table
reflects the components of our revenue growth for the years ended December 31,
1999 and 1998:



     Cost of Operations.  Cost of operations was $1,101.1 million, $842.7
million and $723.0, or, as a percentage of revenue, 59.9%, 61.6% and 64.1%, for
the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The increases in
aggregate dollars are a result of the expansion of our operations through
acquisitions and internal growth. The decreases in cost of operations as a
percentage of revenue are primarily a result of our improved operating
efficiencies and an increase in higher margin landfill operations primarily due
to acquisitions.

     Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and
Equipment.  Depreciation, amortization and depletion expenses for property and
equipment were $130.3 million, $88.4 million and $76.1 million, or, as a
percentage of revenue, 7.1%, 6.5% and 6.7%, for the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The increases in aggregate dollars for all
periods presented and the increase as a percentage of revenue during 1999 is
primarily due to acquisitions and capital expenditures.

     Amortization of Intangible Assets.  Expenses for amortization of intangible
assets were $32.9 million, $17.9 million and $10.0 million, or, as a percentage
of revenue, 1.8%, 1.3% and .9%, for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively. The increase in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of
revenue is primarily due to an increase in the aggregate dollar amount of
acquisitions accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.

     Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.  Selling, general and
administrative expenses were $176.7 million, $135.8 million, $117.3 million, or,
as a percentage of revenue, 9.6%, 9.9% and 10.4%, for the years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The increases in aggregate dollars are a
result of the expansion of our operations through acquisitions and internal
growth. The decreases in selling, general and



administrative expenses as percentages of revenue in each of the years are
primarily due to applying our existing overhead structure over an expanding
revenue base. Included in selling, general and administrative expenses are
allocations of AutoNation's corporate general and administrative costs of $7.5
million and $10.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and fees paid to AutoNation under the services agreement of $5.3
million and $7.5 million for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. See Note 11, Related Party Transactions, of the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

     Other Charges.  We recorded other charges of $6.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. These costs relate to our separation from AutoNation.
They include $2.0 million of compensation expense related to the granting of
certain replacement employee stock options at exercise prices below the quoted
market price of our common stock at the date of grant. See Note 8, Stock
Options, of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information. They also include $4.9 million of other additional charges directly
related to our separation. We do not anticipate incurring additional costs
related to our separation from AutoNation.

     Operating Income.  Operating income was $390.6 million, $284.3 million and
$201.3 million, or, as a percentage of revenue, 21.2%, 20.8% and 17.9%, for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Interest Expense.  We incurred interest expense on our revolving credit
facility, our unsecured notes, amounts due to AutoNation and debt we assumed in
acquisitions. Interest expense was $64.2 million, $44.7 million and $25.9
million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, and
includes interest expense on amounts due to AutoNation of $37.3 million and
$20.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. We
repaid in full the amounts due to AutoNation in July 1998 by issuing our common
stock and from the net proceeds of our initial public offering.

     Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net.  Interest and other income, net
of other expense, was $.1 million, $.6 million and $6.7 million for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The variances during the
periods are primarily due to fluctuations in cash balances on hand and related
interest income. The amount recorded for the year ended December 31, 1999
includes a $2.9 million loss on the sale of our only international operation, a
collection and disposal business in Costa Rica.

     Income Taxes.  Our provision for income taxes was $125.7 million, $86.5
million and $65.9 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The effective income tax rate was 38.5%, 36.0% and 36.2% for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     As of our initial public offering in July 1998, we are no longer included
in AutoNation's federal tax returns.

LANDFILL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

  Available Airspace

     The following table reflects landfill airspace activity for landfills owned
or operated by us for the year ended December 31, 1999:





     As of December 31, 1999, we owned or operated 55 solid waste landfills with
total available disposal capacity estimated to be 1.7 billion in-place cubic
yards. Total available disposal capacity represents the sum of estimated
permitted airspace plus an estimate of airspace deemed by us to be likely to be
permitted. These estimates are developed annually by independent engineers
together with our engineers utilizing information provided by annual aerial
surveys. As of December 31, 1999, total available disposal capacity is estimated
to be 1.3 billion in-place cubic yards of permitted airspace plus .4 billion
in-place cubic yards of expansion airspace which has been determined by us as
likely to be permitted. Before airspace included in an expansion area is
determined as likely to be permitted and, therefore, included in our calculation
of total available disposal capacity, it must meet our expansion criteria. See
Note 4, Landfill and Accrued Environmental Costs, of the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

     As of December 31, 1999, 20 of our landfills meet the criteria for
including expansion airspace in their total available disposal capacity. At
projected annual volumes, these 20 landfills have an estimated remaining average
site life of 37 years, including the expansion airspace. The average estimated
remaining life of all of our landfills is 38 years.

     As of December 31, 1999, three of our landfills that meet the criteria for
including expansion airspace had obtained approval from local authorities and
are proceeding into the state permitting process. Also, as of December 31, 1999,
eight of our 20 landfills that meet the criteria for including expansion
airspace had submitted permit applications to state authorities. The remaining
nine landfills that meet the criteria for including expansion airspace are in
the process of obtaining approval from local authorities and have not identified
any fatal flaws or impediments associated with the expansions at either the
local or state level.

  Closure and Post-Closure Costs

     During the year ended December 31, 1999, we consumed approximately 27.1
million cubic yards of airspace. During this same period, charges to expense for
closure and post-closure were $17.9 million, or $.66 per cubic yard. As of
December 31, 1999, accrued closure and post-closure costs were $152.3 million.
The current portion of these costs of $23.7 million is reflected in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets in other current liabilities. The long-term portion
of these costs of $128.6 million is reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets
in accrued environmental and landfill costs. As of December 31, 1999, assuming
that all available landfill capacity is used, we expect to expense approximately
$528.4 million of additional closure and post-closure costs over the remaining
lives of our facilities.

     Our estimates for closure and post-closure do not take into account
discounts for the present value of total estimated costs. If total estimated
costs were discounted to present value, they would be lower. Thus, if we
discounted such costs, assuming closure and post-closure payments were made
ratably over the life of the landfill and the post-closure period, respectively,
and assuming the costs in current dollars are inflated by 2% until the expected
time of payment and then discounted to present value at 6%, closure and
post-closure expense would be reduced to $9.9 million, or $.37 per cubic yard,
for the year ended December 31, 1999, a reduction of $8.0 million, or $.29 per
cubic yard, from recorded expense. In addition, if we discounted such costs, the
present value of the expected future expense related to closure and post-closure
assuming all available landfill capacity is used would decrease to $222.8
million.



  Investment in Landfills

     The following table reflects changes in our investments in landfills for
the year ended December 31, 1999 and the future expected investment as of
December 31, 1999 (in millions):


     As of December 31, 1998, we owned or operated 48 solid waste landfills with
total available disposal capacity estimated to be 1.2 billion in-place cubic
yards. Our net investment in these landfills, excluding non-depletable land, was
$362.0 million, or approximately $.29 per cubic yard.

     As of December 31, 1999, we owned or operated 55 solid waste landfills with
total available disposal capacity estimated to be 1.7 billion in-place cubic
yards. Our net investment in these landfills, excluding non-depletable land, was
$736.8 million, or $.44 per cubic yard. The $.15 increase in our investment per
cubic yard from December 31, 1998 to December 31, 1999 is primarily due to the
net acquisition of seven landfills during the period. During the year ended
December 31, 1999, our depletion and amortization expense relating to landfills
was $44.3 million, or $1.63 per cubic yard.

     As of December 31, 1999, we expect to spend an estimated additional $1.0
billion on existing landfills, primarily related to cell construction and
environmental structures, over their expected remaining lives. Our total
expected gross investment, excluding non-depletable land, estimated to be $1.9
billion, or $1.14 per cubic yard, is used in determining our depletion and
amortization expense based upon airspace consumed using the units-of-consumption
method. Our estimates for expected future investment in landfills do not take
into account discounts for the present value of total estimated costs. For
further information, see "Closure and Post-Closure Costs".

     We accrue costs related to environmental remediation activities through a
charge to income in the period such liabilities become probable and can be
reasonably estimated. No material amounts were charged to expense during the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

     At December 31, 1999, we had $13.1 million of unrestricted cash. At
December 31, 1998 we had $556.6 million of unrestricted cash, which we used
primarily to fund acquisitions in the first quarter of 1999.

     As previously discussed, in July 1998, we completed our initial public
offering of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.4
billion. In July 1998, we repaid all remaining amounts due to AutoNation with
all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and by issuing additional
shares of our common stock.

     Prior to our initial public offering, we obtained working capital and
capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, from
AutoNation. Since our initial public offering, AutoNation has not provided funds
to finance our operations or acquisitions. In July 1998, we entered into a $1.0
billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks. $500.0
million of the credit facility had an original term of 364 days and the
remaining $500.0 million expires in July 2003. In July 1999, we extended the
short-term portion of the credit facility for an additional one year term
expiring in July 2000. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at
LIBOR-based rates. We use our own operating cash flow and proceeds from our
credit facilities to finance our working capital, capital expenditures,
acquisitions and other requirements. As of



December 31, 1999, we had approximately $430.4 million of availability under the
short-term portion of the credit facility.

     In May 1999, we sold $600.0 million of unsecured notes in the public
market. $225.0 million of these notes bear interest at 6 5/8% per annum and
mature in 2004. The remaining $375.0 million bear interest at 7 1/8% per annum
and mature in 2009. Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually in May and
November. The $225.0 million and $375.0 million in notes were offered at a
discount of $1.0 million and $.5 million, respectively. Proceeds from the notes
were used to repay our revolving credit facility.

     In December 1999, we entered into a $100.0 million operating lease facility
established to finance the acquisition of operating equipment consisting
primarily of revenue-producing vehicles. As of December 31, 1999, $36.1 million
was outstanding under this facility.

     At December 31, 1999, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements
denominated in dollars, maturing in February 2000, with an aggregate notional
amount of $175.0 million. As of December 31, 1999, we received a floating rate
of interest based upon thirty day LIBOR rates or approximately 5.8% and paid a
weighted average fixed rate of interest of 5.9% under these agreements.

     We plan to extend the maturity of our revolving short-term credit facility
prior to its expiration in July 2000 to July 2001. We believe that such an
extension would provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our
anticipated capital requirements and obligations as they come due. We believe
that we would be able to raise additional debt or equity financing, if
necessary, to fund special corporate needs or to complete acquisitions. However,
we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing under
favorable terms or to extend the existing short-term credit facility on the same
terms.

SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ACCOUNTS

     The following table reflects the activity in our allowance for doubtful
accounts, accrued closure and post-closure, accrued self-insurance and amounts
due to former owners during the year ended December 31, 1999 (in millions):



     Additions to accrued liabilities related to acquisitions are periodically
reviewed during the year subsequent to the acquisition. During such reviews,
accrued liabilities which are considered to be in excess of amounts required for
a specific acquisition are reversed and charged against goodwill (cost in excess
of net fair value of assets acquired).

     As of December 31, 1999, accounts receivable were $250.9 million, net of
allowance for doubtful accounts of $14.2 million, resulting in days sales
outstanding of 45, or 34 days net of deferred revenue.



  Property, Plant and Equipment

     The following tables reflect the activity in our property, plant and
equipment accounts for the year ended December 31, 1999 (in millions):





     The tables above exclude $36.1 million of operating equipment consisting
primarily of revenue producing vehicles that were subject to our operating lease
facility as of December 31, 1999.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The major components of changes in cash flows for the years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 are discussed below.

     Cash Flows from Operating Activities.  Cash provided by operating
activities was $323.8 million, $271.1 million and $279.4 million for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The changes in cash
provided by operating activities during the periods are due to expansion of our
business.

     Cash Flows from Investing Activities.  Cash flows from investing activities
consist primarily of cash used for business acquisitions and capital additions.
Cash used to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired, was $737.8 million and
$425.2 million during the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Prior to our initial public offering, business acquisitions were funded by
AutoNation. Capital additions were $289.6 million, $193.0 million and $165.3
million during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     We intend to finance capital expenditures and acquisitions through cash on
hand, cash flow from operations, our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and
other financing. We expect to use primarily cash for future business
acquisitions.

     Cash Flows from Financing Activities.  Cash flows from financing activities
during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 included commercial bank
and affiliate borrowings and repayments of debt, proceeds from our sale of
common stock in our initial public offering in 1998 and proceeds from our sale
of unsecured notes in 1999. In May 1999, we sold unsecured notes with a face
value of $600.0 million at a discounted price of $598.5 million. Proceeds from
the notes were used to repay our revolving credit facility. In December 1999, we
entered into a $100.0 million operating lease facility established to finance
the acquisition of operating equipment consisting primarily of revenue-producing
vehicles. At December 31, 1999, $36.1 million was outstanding under this
facility.



     We used proceeds from bank facilities, affiliate borrowings and unsecured
notes to fund acquisitions and capital additions, and to repay debt. We used all
of the proceeds from our initial public offering of common stock in 1998 to
repay amounts due to AutoNation.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The table below provides information about our market sensitive financial
instruments and constitutes a "forward-looking statement." Our major market risk
exposure is changing interest rates in the United States and fluctuations in
LIBOR. We intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination
of fixed and floating rate debt. All items described below are non-trading.



     The fair value of variable rate debt approximates the carrying value since
interest rates are variable and, thus, approximates current market rates. The
fair value of interest swaps represents the future cash flows through maturity
using rates in effect at December 31, 1999 and is effectively the amount we
would pay or receive to terminate the agreements.

SEASONALITY

     Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather
which could delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of
waste generated or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
other facilities.

YEAR 2000

     As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K we believe that all of
our systems are operating and we have not experienced any material issues from
the date change in the year 2000. Also, as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, we are unaware of any third party issues from the date change in the
year 2000 that would materially affect our financial condition or results of
operations. Nevertheless, if any issues from the date change in the year 2000
presently unknown to us occur with us or with third party products and business
dependencies, we may experience a delay or disruption in the delivery of
services which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
and results of operations including loss of revenue, increased operating costs,
loss of customers or suppliers, or other significant disruptions to our
business.

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, we completed a number of tasks relating
to our preparation for the date change in the year 2000 including:

     - testing and validation of industry standard automated applications and
       proprietary software applications,
     - repairing or replacing hardware with non-compliant embedded chips,
     - implementing contingency and business continuation plans and
     - validating the readiness of material third parties.

     We spent approximately $2.9 million on our efforts related to the date
change in the year 2000. These costs were funded through operating cash flows
and were expensed as incurred during 1999 and 1998. We do not expect to incur
any additional costs in this area.



NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No.
133". SFAS 137 amends FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," by deferring the
effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. SFAS 133 requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. We will adopt SFAS 133 beginning January 1,
2001. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact
on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Certain statements and information included herein constitute
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which include, among other things, the
discussions of our growth and operating strategies and expectations concerning
market position, future operations, margins, revenue, profitability, liquidity
and capital resources, as well as statements concerning the integration of the
operations of acquired businesses and achievement of financial benefits and
operational efficiencies in connection therewith. Such forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors
which may cause the actual results, performance, or achievements of our company
to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements
expressed or implied, in or by such forward-looking statements. Such factors
include, among other things, whether our estimates and assumptions concerning
our selected balance sheet accounts, closure and post-closure costs, available
airspace, and projected costs and expenses related to our landfills and
property, plant and equipment, turn out to be correct or appropriate, and
various factors that will impact our actual business and financial performance
such as competition in the solid waste industry; our dependence on acquisitions
for growth; our ability to manage growth; compliance with and future changes in
environmental regulations; our ability to obtain approval from regulatory
agencies in connection with expansions at our landfills; the ability to obtain
financing on acceptable terms to finance our operations and growth strategy and
of our company to operate within the limitations imposed by financing
arrangements; our dependence on key personnel; general economic conditions; our
dependence on large, long-term collection contracts; risk associated with
undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses; the risks and costs associated
with the date change in the year 2000; risks associated with pending legal
proceedings; and other factors contained in this section and under the section
entitled "BUSINESS -- Risk Factors." We assume no duty to update the forward
looking statements.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Republic Services, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Republic
Services, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 1999. These financial statements and the schedule referred to below
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our
audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Republic Services, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the index to
consolidated financial statements is presented for the purpose of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
January 24, 2000, except with respect to the
matter discussed in paragraph 2 of Note 10,
as to which the date is February 11, 2000.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (ALL TABLES IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
Republic Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company"). The Company
provides non-hazardous solid waste collection and disposal services in the
United States. All material intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

     The historical Consolidated Financial Statements through the date of the
secondary offering in May 1999 reflect the accounts of the Company as a
subsidiary of AutoNation, Inc., formerly known as Republic Industries, Inc.
(together with its subsidiaries, "AutoNation"), subject to corporate general and
administrative expense allocations or charges under the Services Agreement as
described in Note 11, Related Party Transactions. Such information does not
necessarily reflect the financial position or results of operations of the
Company as a separate, stand-alone entity.

     All historical share and per share data of the Company's common stock, par
value $.01 per share ("Common Stock", which was formerly designated as either
"Class A Common Stock" or "Class B Common Stock"), for the year ended December
31, 1998 in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto have
been retroactively adjusted for the recapitalization of AutoNation's 100 shares
of Common Stock previously outstanding into 95.7 million shares of Class B
Common Stock in July 1998.

     In July 1998, the Company completed an initial public offering of its Class
A Common Stock ("Initial Public Offering") resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $1.4 billion. In addition, in July 1998 the Company repaid in full
all amounts due to AutoNation as of June 30, 1998 through the issuance of 16.5
million shares of Class A Common Stock and through the payment of all proceeds
from the Initial Public Offering. Following the Initial Public Offering and the
repayment of amounts due to AutoNation, approximately 63.9% of the outstanding
shares of Common Stock were owned by AutoNation.

     In March 1999, AutoNation converted all 95.7 million shares of its Class B
Common Stock into Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis. In April 1999,
AutoNation transferred all of its Class A Common Stock to its indirect,
wholly-owned subsidiary, AutoNation Insurance Company, and the Company
registered all 112.2 million shares of Class A Common Stock owned by AutoNation.
In May 1999, the Company completed a secondary offering, in which AutoNation
sold substantially all of the Class A Common Stock it owned in the Company. In
June 1999, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to eliminate the
classifications of Common Stock.

     Other charges of $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999 are
included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. These costs relate to the Company's separation from
AutoNation and consist of approximately $2.0 million of compensation expenses
related to the granting of certain replacement employee stock options at
exercise prices below the quoted market price of the Company's Common Stock at
the date of grant (see Note 8, Stock Options) and approximately $4.9 million of
additional charges directly related to the separation. The Company does not
anticipate incurring additional costs relating to its separation from
AutoNation.

     The following unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for
the year ended December 31, 1999 excludes the $6.9 million pre-tax charge
resulting from the Company's separation from AutoNation. It


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

also excludes a $2.9 million loss incurred during the three months ended
December 31, 1999 on the sale of the Company's only international operation, a
collection and disposal operation in Costa Rica.



     The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations is provided
for informational purposes only and does not project the Company's results of
operations for any future date or period.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on
estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ from
these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals
for closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts
receivable, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and
liabilities for environmental remediation, deferred taxes and self-insurance.

RESTRICTED CASH

     Restricted cash consists of amounts held in trust as a financial guaranty
of the Company's performance as well as funds restricted for capital
expenditures under certain debt facilities.

PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

     A summary of prepaid expenses and other current assets is as follows:



     Inventories totaled approximately $20.3 million and $13.3 million at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and consist primarily of equipment
parts, compost materials and supplies that are valued under a method that
approximates the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures for major
additions and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are
charged to expense as incurred. When property is retired or otherwise disposed
of, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts
and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

     The Company revises the estimated useful lives of property and equipment
acquired through business acquisitions to conform with its policies regarding
property and equipment. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives
of the assets involved using the straight-line method. The estimated useful
lives are twenty to forty years for buildings and improvements, three to fifteen
years for trucks and equipment, and five to ten years for furniture and
fixtures.

     Landfills are stated at cost and are depleted based on consumed airspace.
Landfill improvements include direct costs incurred to obtain a landfill permit
and direct costs incurred to construct and develop the site. These costs are
depleted based on consumed airspace. All indirect landfill development costs are
expensed as incurred. (For further information, see Note 4, Landfill and Accrued
Environmental Costs.)

     The Company capitalizes interest on landfill cell construction and other
construction projects in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 34, "Capitalization of Interest Cost". Construction projects must
meet the following criteria before interest is capitalized:

     1. Total construction costs are $250,000 or greater;

     2. The construction phase is three months or longer; and

     3. The assets have a useful life of three years or longer.

     Interest is capitalized on qualified assets while they undergo activities
to ready them for their intended use. Capitalization of interest ceases once an
asset is placed into service or if construction activity is suspended for more
than a brief period of time. The interest capitalization rate is based upon the
Company's weighted average cost of indebtedness. Interest capitalized was $5.6
million, $.8 million and $.8 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

     A summary of property and equipment is as follows:



     The Company periodically evaluates whether events and circumstances have
occurred that may warrant revision of the estimated useful life of property and
equipment or whether the remaining balance of property and equipment should be
evaluated for possible impairment. The Company uses an estimate of the related
undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the property and equipment in
assessing their recover-

                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

ability. The Company measures impairment loss as the amount by which the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets.

INTANGIBLE AND OTHER ASSETS

     Intangible and other assets consist primarily of the cost of acquired
businesses in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired and other
intangible assets. The cost in excess of the fair value of net assets is
amortized over forty years on a straight-line basis. Other intangible assets
include values assigned to customer lists, long-term contracts and covenants not
to compete and are amortized generally over periods ranging from 5 to 25 years.
Accumulated amortization of intangible assets was $100.4 million and $73.0
million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     The Company periodically evaluates whether events and circumstances have
occurred that may warrant revision of the estimated useful life of intangible
assets or whether the remaining balance of intangible assets should be evaluated
for possible impairment. The Company uses an estimate of the related
undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the intangible assets in
assessing their recoverability. The Company measures impairment loss as the
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the
assets.

ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     A summary of accrued liabilities is as follows:



OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

     A summary of other current liabilities is as follows:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenue consists primarily of collection fees from commercial, industrial,
residential and municipal customers and transfer and landfill disposal fees
charged to third parties. Collection, transfer and disposal, and other services
accounted for approximately 77.2%, 14.5% and 8.3%, respectively, of consolidated
revenue for the year ended December 31, 1999. Advance billings are recorded as
deferred revenue, and revenue is recognized over the period in which services
are provided. No one customer has individually accounted for more than 10.0% of
the Company's consolidated revenues in any of the past three years.

INCOME TAXES

     Effective with the Initial Public Offering in July 1998, the Company is no
longer included in the consolidated federal income tax return of AutoNation. For
the periods prior to the Initial Public Offering, all tax amounts have been
recorded as if the Company filed a separate federal tax return. The Company
accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes." Accordingly, deferred income taxes have been provided to show the
effect of temporary differences between the recognition of revenue and expenses
for financial and income tax reporting purposes and between the tax basis of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The Company has no components of other comprehensive income. Accordingly,
net income equals comprehensive income for all periods presented.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with purchased
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The effect of
non-cash transactions related to business combinations, as discussed in Note 3,
Business Combinations, and other non-cash transactions are excluded from the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

     The Company made interest payments on notes payable and long-term debt of
approximately $53.7 million, $44.0 million and $24.3 million (net of capitalized
interest of $5.6 million, $.8 million and $.8 million) for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company made income tax
payments of approximately $100.3 million, $65.4 million and $29.4 million for
the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash,
receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due
to the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of the Company's
fixed rate unsecured notes using an estimate of interest rates currently
available to the Company is $575.8 million at December 31, 1999. The carrying
value of the unsecured notes is $598.5 million at December 31, 1999. The
carrying amounts of the Company's remaining notes payable and long-term debt
approximate fair value because interest rates are primarily variable and,
accordingly, approximate current market rates.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

     The Company provides services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers in the United States. Concentrations of credit risk with
respect to trade receivables are limited due to the wide variety of customers
and markets in which services are provided as well as their dispersion across
many geographic areas in the United States. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of its customers, but

                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

does not require collateral to support customer receivables. The Company
establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts based on various factors
including the credit risk of specific customers, age of receivables outstanding,
historical trends and other information.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No.
133". SFAS 137 amends FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", by deferring the
effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. SFAS 133 requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. The Company will adopt SFAS 133 beginning
January 1, 2001. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

3. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     Businesses acquired and accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date
of acquisition.

     In July 1999, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with Allied
Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied") to acquire certain solid waste assets for
approximately $230.0 million in cash. In October 1999, after failing to receive
regulatory approval relating to the acquisition of certain of the assets, the
agreement was amended for the Company to acquire certain solid waste assets for
a purchase price of $71.0 million in cash. The assets to be acquired under the
amended agreement include one landfill operation, five transfer stations and a
subset of small container hauling assets from four collection operations. By
December 31, 1999, the Company had completed the purchase of certain assets for
approximately $19.7 million in cash. In addition, the Company entered into a
definitive agreement with Allied for the simultaneous purchase and sale of
certain other solid waste assets. All of these transactions will be accounted
for under the purchase method of accounting. The portion of these transactions
that were not closed by December 31, 1999, are subject to approval by various
state and federal agencies as well as satisfaction of customary closing
conditions.

     In September 1998, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with
Waste Management, Inc. ("Waste Management") to acquire certain assets. The
assets acquired included 16 landfills, 11 transfer stations and 136 collection
routes across the United States as well as disposal agreements at various Waste
Management sites. At December 31, 1998, closings had been completed for 6
landfills, 7 transfer stations and all of the collection routes discussed above,
at a purchase price of approximately $186.9 million in cash plus properties. By
June 1999, the Company had completed the purchases of the remaining assets for
approximately $292.7 million in cash plus properties.

     In addition to the acquisitions from Allied and Waste Management, the
Company also acquired various other solid waste businesses during 1999. The
aggregate purchase price paid by the Company in these transactions was $430.8
million in cash.

     During the year ended 1998, AutoNation acquired various solid waste
businesses which were contributed to the Company. The aggregate purchase price
paid by AutoNation in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting was $128.3 million, consisting of $60.3 million in cash and
approximately 3.4 million shares of AutoNation common stock valued at $68.0
million. Subsequent to the Initial Public Offering, the Company acquired various
solid waste businesses. The aggregate purchase price


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

paid by the Company in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting was $450.5 million consisting of cash and certain properties.

     During the year ended December 31, 1997, AutoNation acquired various solid
waste businesses which were contributed to the Company. The aggregate purchase
price paid by AutoNation in transactions accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting was $147.9 million consisting of $11.5 million in cash and 5.7
million shares of AutoNation common stock valued at $136.4 million. In addition,
AutoNation issued an aggregate of 34.1 million shares of AutoNation common stock
in transactions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of
accounting. Significant businesses acquired and accounted for under the pooling
of interests method of accounting have been included retroactively in the
Consolidated Financial Statements as if the companies had operated as one entity
since inception. Included in the shares of AutoNation common stock issued in
acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method of accounting
are approximately 0.3 million shares issued for acquisitions that were not
material individually or in the aggregate and, consequently, prior period
financial statements were not restated for such acquisitions.

     The following summarizes the preliminary purchase price allocations for
business combinations accounted for under the purchase method of accounting:



     The Company's unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations
assuming acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting had
occurred at the beginning of the periods presented are as follows:



     The unaudited pro forma results of operations are presented for
informational purposes only and may not necessarily reflect the future results
of operations of the Company or what the results of operations would have been
had the Company owned and operated these businesses as of the beginning of the
periods presented.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4. LANDFILL AND ACCRUED ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

ACCRUED ENVIRONMENTAL AND LANDFILL COSTS

     A summary of accrued environmental and landfill costs is as follows:



LIFE CYCLE ACCOUNTING

     The Company uses life cycle accounting and the units-of-consumption method
to recognize certain landfill costs. In life cycle accounting, all costs to
acquire, construct, close and maintain a site during the post-closure period are
capitalized or accrued and charged to expense based upon the consumption of
cubic yards of available airspace. Costs and airspace estimates are developed
annually by independent engineers together with the Company's engineers. These
estimates are used by the Company's operating and accounting personnel to
annually adjust the Company's rates used to expense capitalized costs and accrue
closure and post-closure costs. Changes in these estimates primarily relate to
changes in available airspace, inflation rates and applicable regulations.
Changes in available airspace include changes due to the addition of airspace
lying in expansion areas deemed likely to be permitted.

TOTAL AVAILABLE DISPOSAL CAPACITY

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned or operated 55 solid waste
landfills with total available disposal capacity of approximately 1.7 billion
in-place cubic yards. Total available disposal capacity represents the sum of
estimated permitted airspace plus an estimate of airspace which is likely to be
permitted.

LIKELY TO BE PERMITTED EXPANSION AIRSPACE

     Before airspace included in an expansion area is determined as likely to be
permitted and, therefore, included in the Company's calculation of total
available disposal capacity, the following criteria must be met:

     1. The land associated with the expansion airspace is either owned by the
        Company or is controlled by the Company pursuant to an option agreement;

     2. The Company is committed to supporting the expansion project financially
        and with appropriate resources;

     3. There are no identified fatal flaws or impediments associated with the
        project, including political impediments;

     4. Progress is being made on the project;

     5. The expansion is attainable within a reasonable time frame; and

     6. The Company believes it is likely the expansion permit will be received.

     Upon meeting the Company's expansion criteria, the rates used at each
applicable landfill to expense costs to acquire, construct, close and maintain a
site during the post-closure period are adjusted to include


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

likely to be permitted airspace and all additional costs to be capitalized or
accrued associated with the expansion airspace.

     The Company has identified three sequential steps that landfills generally
follow to obtain expansion permits. These steps are as follows:

     1. Obtaining approval from local authorities;

     2. Submitting a permit application with state authorities; and

     3. Obtaining permit approval from state authorities.

     Once a landfill meets the Company's expansion criteria, management
continuously monitors each site's progress in obtaining the expansion permit. If
at any point it is determined that an expansion area no longer meets the
required criteria, the likely to be permitted airspace is removed from the
landfill's total available capacity and the rates used at the landfill to
expense costs to acquire, construct, close and maintain a site during the
post-closure period are adjusted accordingly. The Company has never been denied
an expansion permit for a landfill that included likely to be permitted airspace
in its total available disposal capacity, although no assurances can be made
that all future expansions will be permitted as designed.

CAPITALIZED LANDFILL COSTS

     Capitalized landfill costs include expenditures for land, permitting costs,
cell construction costs and environmental structures. Capitalized permitting and
cell construction costs are limited to direct costs relating to these
activities, including legal, engineering and construction associated with
excavation, liners and site berms. Interest is capitalized on landfill
construction projects while the assets are undergoing activities to ready them
for their intended use.

     Costs related to acquiring land, excluding the estimated residual value of
unpermitted land, and costs related to permitting and cell construction are
depleted as airspace is consumed using the units-of-consumption method.
Environmental structures, which include leachate collection systems, methane
collection systems and groundwater monitoring wells, are charged to expense over
the shorter of their useful life or the life of the landfill.

     Capitalized landfill costs may also include an allocation of purchase price
paid for landfills. For landfills purchased as part of a group of several
assets, the purchase price assigned to the landfill is determined based upon the
discounted future expected cash flows of the landfill relative to the other
assets within the group. If the landfill meets the Company's expansion criteria,
the purchase price is further allocated between permitted airspace and expansion
airspace based upon the ratio of permitted versus likely to be permitted
airspace to total available airspace. Landfill purchase price is amortized using
the units-of-consumption method over the total available airspace including
likely to be permitted airspace where appropriate.

CLOSURE AND POST-CLOSURE COSTS

     Landfill site closure and post-closure costs include estimated costs to be
incurred for final closure of the landfills and estimated costs for providing
required post-closure monitoring and maintenance of landfills. These costs are
accrued and charged to cost of operations based upon consumed airspace in
relation to total available disposal capacity using the units-of-consumption
method of amortization. The Company estimates future cost requirements for
closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance for its solid waste
facilities based on the technical standards of the Environmental Protection
Agency's Subtitle D regulations and applicable state and local regulations.
These estimates do not take into account discounts for the present value of
total estimated costs. Accruals for closure and post-closure costs totaled
approximately $17.9 million, $11.4 million and $7.9 million during the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A number of the Company's landfills were previously operated by other
entities. Accordingly, the Company assessed and recorded a closure and
post-closure liability as of the date the landfill was acquired based upon the
estimated total closure and post-closure costs and the percentage of total
available disposal capacity utilized as of such date. Thereafter, the difference
between the closure and post-closure costs accrued and the total estimated
closure and post-closure costs to be incurred are accrued and charged to expense
as airspace is consumed. Estimated aggregate closure and post-closure costs will
be fully accrued for the Company's landfills at the time such facilities cease
to accept waste and are closed. As of December 31, 1999, assuming that all
available landfill capacity is used, the Company expects to expense
approximately $528.4 million of such costs over the remaining lives of these
facilities.

ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

     In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to ongoing
environmental investigations by certain regulatory agencies, as well as other
claims and disputes that could result in litigation. Environmental costs are
accrued by the Company through a charge to income in the period such liabilities
become probable and can be reasonably estimated. No material amounts were
charged to expense during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

5. NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT

     Notes payable and long-term debt are as follows:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Aggregate maturities of notes payable and long-term debt are as follows:



     As of December 31, 1999, we had approximately $430.4 million of
availability under the short-term portion of the credit facility.

     The unsecured notes, the unsecured revolving credit facility and the loan
agreements with the California Pollution Control Financing Authority require the
Company to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with certain financial
covenants. At December 31, 1999, the Company was in compliance with the
financial covenants under these agreements.

     The Company uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to
interest rate changes. The swaps involve the exchange of fixed and variable
interest rate payments without exchanging the notional principal amount.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had outstanding interest rate swap
agreements denominated in dollars, maturing in February 2000, with an aggregate
notional amount of $175.0 million. As of December 31, 1999, the Company received
a floating rate of interest based upon thirty day LIBOR rates or approximately
5.8% and paid a weighted average fixed rate of interest of 5.9% under these
agreements.

     The fair value of these interest rate swap agreements represents the value
of the spread between the interest rate the Company paid and the interest rate
the Company received over the remaining life of the agreement or approximately
$20,000.

     Counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements are major financial
institutions who also participate in the Company's revolving credit facility.

6. INCOME TAXES

     The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate is shown below:



     Components of the net deferred income tax liability in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows:



     In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The Company adjusts the valuation allowance in the
period management determines it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets
will or will not be realized.

7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     In April 1998, the Company declared a $2.0 billion dividend to AutoNation
that it paid in the form of notes payable ("Company Notes"). Interest expense on
the Company Notes was $27.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

     In June 1998, the Company received a dividend of certain assets from a
former subsidiary totaling approximately $437.3 million. In June 1998, the
Company prepaid a portion of the amounts outstanding under the Company Notes
totaling $565.4 million using this dividend, cash and certain other assets.

     In July 1998, the Company amended and restated its Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize capital stock consisting of (a) 50,000,000 shares of
preferred stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), and (b)
750,000,000 shares of Common Stock of which 250,000,000 shares were authorized
as Class A Common Stock, 125,000,000 shares were authorized as Class B Common
Stock and 375,000,000 shares may be designated by the Company's Board of
Directors as either Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. In addition,
all 100 shares of common stock previously held by AutoNation were converted into
95.7 million shares of Class B Common Stock. The Class A Common Stock and Class
B Common Stock were identical in all respects, except holders of Class A Common
Stock were entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B Common Stock
were entitled to five votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of the
stockholders, including the election of directors.

     In July 1998, the Company repaid amounts due to AutoNation totaling $395.4
million through the issuance of approximately 16.5 million shares of Class A
Common Stock.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In July 1998, the Company completed the Initial Public Offering of
approximately 63.2 million shares of its Class A Common Stock resulting in net
proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion. All of the proceeds from the Initial
Public Offering were used to repay remaining amounts due under the Company
Notes.

     In March 1999, AutoNation converted all 95.7 million shares of its Class B
Common Stock into Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis. In May 1999, the
Company completed a secondary offering, in which AutoNation sold substantially
all of the Class A Common Stock it owned in the Company. In June 1999, the
Company amended its certificate of incorporation to eliminate the
classifications of Common Stock.

8. STOCK OPTIONS

     In July 1998, the Company adopted the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan ("Stock
Incentive Plan") to provide for grants of options to purchase shares of Common
Stock to employees, non-employee directors and independent contractors of the
Company who are eligible to participate in the Stock Incentive Plan. Options
granted under the Stock Incentive Plan are non-qualified and are granted at a
price equal to the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock at the date
of grant. Generally, options granted have a term of ten years from the date of
grant, and vest in increments of 25% per year over a four year period on the
yearly anniversary date of the grant. Options granted to non-employee directors
have a term of ten years and vest immediately at the date of grant. The Company
has reserved 20.0 million shares of Common Stock for issuance pursuant to
options granted under the Stock Incentive Plan.

     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, employees of the Company were granted
stock options under AutoNation stock option plans. As of March 2, 1999, options
to purchase approximately 8.0 million shares of AutoNation common stock held by
the Company's employees were canceled by AutoNation, and the Company's
Compensation Committee granted replacement options on a one-for-one basis
("Replacement Options"). The Replacement Options to purchase shares of Common
Stock retained the vesting and exercise rights of the original options, subject
to certain exercise limitations for individuals who signed stock option
repricing agreements with AutoNation. The exercise prices for individual
replacement options were established to maintain the unrealized gain or loss on
each option for AutoNation stock that was cancelled. Compensation expense
related to the granting of certain replacement options at exercise prices below
the fair market value of the Common Stock at the date of grant was approximately
$2.0 million and has been included in selling, general and administrative
expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year
ended December 31, 1999.

     In October 1999, the Board of Directors approved the Company's annual grant
of options for fiscal year 2000. This grant allows participants to acquire
approximately 2.8 million shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11 7/8
per share, which was the quoted market price as of the grant date.

     The following table summarizes stock option activity for the year ended
December 31, 1999:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes information about the Company's outstanding
and exercisable stock options at December 31, 1999:



     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees", in accounting for stock-based employee
compensation arrangements whereby no compensation cost related to stock options
is deducted in determining net income. Had compensation cost for stock option
grants under the Company's Stock Incentive Plan been determined pursuant to SFAS
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", the Company's net income
would have decreased accordingly. Using the Black-Scholes option pricing model,
the Company's pro forma net income and pro forma weighted average fair value of
options granted, with related assumptions, assuming the Replacement Options were
outstanding during the periods presented, are as follows:



9. EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings
per share is based on the combined weighted average number of common shares and
common share equivalents outstanding which include, where appropriate, the
assumed exercise of employee stock options. In computing diluted earnings per
share, the Company utilizes the treasury stock method.

     Earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 includes
the retroactive effect of the recapitalization of the 100 shares of Common Stock
held by AutoNation into 95.7 million shares of Common Stock.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Earnings per share is calculated as follows (in millions, except per share
data):



10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a party to various general legal proceedings which have
arisen in the ordinary course of business. While the results of these matters
cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that losses, if any,
resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. However, unfavorable resolution could affect the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows for the
quarterly periods in which they are resolved.

     In September 1999, several lawsuits were filed by certain shareholders
against the Company and certain of its officers and directors in the United
States Court for the Southern District of Florida. The plaintiffs in these
lawsuits claim, on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of the Company's
common stock between January 28, 1999 and August 28, 1999, that the defendants
violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by,
among other things, allegedly making materially false and misleading statements
regarding the Company's growth and the assets acquired from Waste Management. On
December 29, 1999 the Court consolidated these lawsuits and the consolidated
action has been named In Re: Republic Services, Inc. Securities Litigation. The
plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint on February 11, 2000. Management
believes the allegations contained in the consolidated complaint are without
merit and will vigorously defend this and any related actions. However, an
unfavorable resolution of this lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's consolidated financial position, result of operations or cash
flows in one or more future periods.

LEASE COMMITMENTS

     During December 1999, the Company entered into a $100.0 million operating
lease facility established to finance the acquisition of operating equipment
(primarily revenue-producing vehicles). At December 31, 1999, $36.1 million was
outstanding under the lease facility. In addition, the Company and its
subsidiaries lease real property, equipment and software under various other
operating leases with terms from one to twenty-five years.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Future minimum lease obligations under noncancelable real property,
equipment and software leases with initial terms in excess of one year at
December 31, 1999 are as follows:



LIABILITY INSURANCE

     The Company carries general liability, vehicle liability, employment
practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability,
workers compensation and employer's liability coverage, as well as umbrella
liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits
contained in these primary policies. The Company also carries property
insurance.

     The Company's insurance programs for worker's compensation, general
liability, vehicle liability and employee related health care benefits are
effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully
insured. Accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but
not reported.

     The Company's liabilities for unpaid and incurred but not reported claims
at December 31, 1999 was $38.4 million under its current risk management program
and are included in other current and other liabilities in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. While the ultimate amount of claims incurred are
dependent on future developments, in management's opinion, recorded reserves are
adequate to cover the future payment of claims. However, it is reasonably
possible that recorded reserves may not be adequate to cover the future payment
of claims. Adjustments, if any, to estimates recorded resulting from ultimate
claim payments will be reflected in operations in the periods in which such
adjustments are known.

OTHER MATTERS

     In the normal course of business, the Company is required to post
performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, and/or cash deposits
as a financial guarantee of the Company's performance. To date, the Company has
satisfied financial responsibility requirements for regulatory agencies by
making cash deposits, obtaining bank letters of credit or by obtaining surety
bonds. At December 31, 1999, surety bonds and letters of credit totaling $618.3
million were outstanding, which expire through 2007.

     The Company's business activities are conducted in the context of a
developing and changing statutory and regulatory framework. Governmental
regulation of the waste management industry requires the Company to obtain and
retain numerous governmental permits to conduct various aspects of its
operations. These permits are subject to revocation, modification or denial. The
costs and other capital expenditures which may be required to obtain or retain
the applicable permits or comply with applicable regulations could be
significant. Any revocation, modification or denial of permits could have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

     Through the date of the Company's initial public offering in July 1998, the
Company filed consolidated federal income tax returns with AutoNation. The
Internal Revenue Service is auditing AutoNation's consolidated tax returns for
fiscal years 1995 and 1996. In accordance with the Company's tax sharing
agreement with AutoNation, the Company may be liable for certain assessments
imposed by the Internal Revenue Service resulting from this audit. Management
believes that the tax liabilities recorded are adequate.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

However, a significant assessment in excess of liabilities recorded against the
Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

11. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The following is an analysis of activity in the due to AutoNation account:



     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, due to AutoNation included
allocations of various expenses from AutoNation including general and
administrative expenses, risk management premiums, income taxes and other costs.
Such liabilities were non-interest bearing and had no specified repayment terms.
In July 1998, the Company repaid in full amounts due to AutoNation as of June
30, 1998 through the issuance of approximately 5.8 million shares of Common
Stock. Subsequent to the Initial Public Offering, due to AutoNation consists
primarily of charges under the Services Agreement described below. Such amounts
were non-interest bearing and were repaid periodically using cash.

     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, AutoNation's corporate general and
administrative costs not specifically attributable to its operating subsidiaries
were allocated to the Company based upon the ratio of the Company's invested
capital to AutoNation's consolidated invested capital. Such allocations are
included in the Company's selling, general and administrative costs and were
approximately $7.5 million and $10.2 million for the years ended December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively. These amounts approximate management's estimate of
AutoNation's corporate general and administrative costs required to support the
Company's operations. Management believes that the amounts allocated to the
Company are reasonable and are no less favorable to the Company than the
expenses the Company would have incurred to obtain such services on its own or
from unaffiliated third parties.

     In June 1998, the Company and AutoNation entered into a services agreement
(the "Services Agreement") pursuant to which AutoNation provided to the Company
certain accounting, auditing, cash management, corporate communications,
corporate development, financial and treasury, human resources and benefit plan
administration, insurance and risk management, legal, purchasing and tax
services. The Services Agreement expired June 30, 1999. In exchange for the
provision of such services, fees were payable by the Company to AutoNation in
the amount of $1.25 million per month. Effective January 1, 1999, such fees
payable by the Company to AutoNation were reduced to $.9 million per month. The
Company believes that the fees for services provided under the Services
Agreement are no less favorable to the Company than could be obtained by the
Company internally or from unaffiliated third parties. Charges under the
Services Agreement for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 were $5.3
million and $7.5 million and are included in selling, general and administrative
expenses.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, the Company participated in
AutoNation's combined risk management programs for property, casualty and
general liability insurance. The Company was charged annual premiums of $9.7
million and $15.9 million for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

     Notes payable to a former subsidiary represent borrowings prior to the
Initial Public Offering under revolving credit facilities to fund the Company's
operations and to repay debt assumed in acquisitions. Borrowings under these
facilities bear interest at prime plus 50 basis points and were payable on
demand. In July 1998, the Company repaid these notes through the issuance of
approximately 10.7 million shares of Common Stock. Interest expense on these
notes was $9.7 million and $20.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

12. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     The following is an analysis of certain items in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations by quarter for 1999 and 1998:





ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.



                                    PART III

     The information required by Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Part III of Form
10-K will be set forth in the Proxy Statement of the Company relating to the
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated by reference herein.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Exhibits:







- ---------------

* filed herewith

     (b) Financial Statement Schedule. The following financial statement
schedule is filed on page 62 herewith:

     Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
Reserves, for Each of the Three Years Ended December 31, 1999.

     Schedules not listed above have been omitted because the information
required to be set forth therein is not applicable or is shown in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

     (c) Reports on Form 8-K:

     Form 8-K, filed and dated January 26, 2000, including a press release
announcing the Company's operating results for the three and twelve months ended
December 31, 1999.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          REGISTRANT:

                                          REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                                          By:     /s/ H. WAYNE HUIZENGA
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     H. Wayne Huizenga
                                                   Chairman of the Board

March 13, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                  SCHEDULE II
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



- ---------------

(1) Allowance of acquired businesses.



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX






- ---------------

* filed herewith

