
10-K405
g67177e10-k405.txt
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC. 10-K405 12/31/00




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR
[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM __________ TO __________

                        Commission file number: 1-14267

                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)



      Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (954) 769-2400

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]     No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     As of February 16, 2001, the registrant had outstanding 171,024,397 shares
of Common Stock. At such date, the aggregate market value of the shares of the
Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$2,732,795,954.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement relative to the 2001
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Part IV Portions of previously filed reports and registration statements.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     INDEX
                                  TO FORM 10-K




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

     We are a leading provider of services in the domestic non-hazardous solid
waste industry. We provide non-hazardous solid waste collection services for
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 139
collection companies in 22 states. We also own or operate 79 transfer stations,
53 solid waste landfills and 21 recycling facilities.

     We had revenue of $2,103.3 million and $1,869.3 million and operating
income of $434.0 million and $390.6 million for the years ended December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively. The $234.0 million, or 12.5%, increase in revenue
and the $43.4 million, or 11.1%, increase in operating income from 1999 to 2000
are primarily attributable to our successful execution of our operating and
growth strategies described below.

     Our presence in high growth markets throughout the Sunbelt, including
Florida, Georgia, Nevada, Southern California and Texas, and in other domestic
markets that have experienced higher than average population growth during the
past several years supports our internal growth strategy. We believe that our
presence in these markets positions our company to experience growth at rates
that are generally higher than the industry's overall growth rate.

     We believe that we are well-positioned to continue to increase our revenue
and operating income in order to enhance stockholder value by implementing our
financial, operating and growth strategies as described below.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

     Based on analyst reports and industry trade publications, we believe that
the United States non-hazardous solid waste services industry generated revenue
of approximately $40.0 billion in 1999, of which approximately 50% was generated
by publicly-owned waste companies, and 50% was generated by privately-held waste
companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities. Only three
companies generated the substantial majority of the publicly-owned companies'
total revenue in 1999. However, according to industry data, the domestic
non-hazardous waste industry remains highly fragmented as privately-held
companies and municipal and local governmental authorities generated total
annual revenue of approximately $20.0 billion.

     We believe that in recent years there has been a great deal of
consolidation in the solid waste collection industry, which has historically
been characterized by numerous small companies. We believe that this trend will
continue, but at a slower pace than that experienced the last several years, as
a result of the following factors:

          Subtitle D Regulation.  Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and
     Recovery Act of 1976, as currently in effect, and similar state regulations
     have significantly increased the amount of capital, technical expertise,
     operating costs and financial assurance obligations required to own and
     operate a landfill and other solid waste facilities. Many of the smaller
     participants in our industry have found these costs difficult, if not
     impossible, to bear. Large publicly-owned companies, like our company, have
     greater access to capital, and a lower cost of capital, to finance such
     increased capital expenditures and costs relative to many of the
     privately-owned companies in the industry. Additionally, the required
     permits for landfill development, expansion or construction have become
     more difficult to acquire. Consequently, many smaller, independent
     operators have decided to either close their operations or sell them to
     larger operators with greater access to capital.

          Integration of Solid Waste Businesses.  By being able to control the
     waste stream in a market through the collection, transfer and disposal
     process, integrated solid waste companies gain a further competitive
     advantage over non-integrated operators. The ability of the integrated
     companies to both collect and dispose of solid waste, coupled with access
     to significant capital resources necessary for



     acquisitions, has created an environment in which large publicly-owned
     integrated companies can operate more cost effectively and competitively
     than non-integrated operators.

          Municipal Privatization.  The trend toward consolidation in the solid
     waste services industry is further supported by the increasing tendency of
     a number of municipalities to privatize their waste disposal operations.
     Privatization of municipal waste operations is often an attractive
     alternative to funding the changes required by Subtitle D.

     These developments, as well as the fact that there are a limited number of
viable exit strategies for many of the owners and principals of numerous
privately-held companies in the industry, have contributed to the overall
consolidation trend in the solid waste industry.

FINANCIAL STRATEGY

     A key component of our financial strategy is our ability to generate free
cash flow. We define free cash flow as net income, plus depreciation, depletion
and amortization, less capital expenditures, plus or minus net changes in assets
and liabilities. Certain analysts that follow the waste industry add deferred
income taxes to our free cash flow, as defined. We believe that free cash flow
is the best measure of our financial performance. Consequently, we have
developed incentive programs and monthly field operating reviews that help focus
our entire company on the importance of growing free cash flow.

     We manage our free cash flow primarily by ensuring that capital
expenditures are appropriate in light of our internal and acquisition growth and
by closely managing our assets and liabilities, the most critical of which are
accounts receivable and accounts payable.

     We have used and will continue to use our free cash flow to fund internal
growth and acquire other solid waste businesses. However, if we are unable to
identify opportunities that satisfy our growth strategy, we intend to use our
free cash flow for other purposes including repurchasing shares of our common
stock and repaying our debt.

     Another key component of our financial strategy includes maintaining an
investment grade rating on our senior debt. This has allowed us, and will
continue to allow us, to access the capital markets at competitive rates.

     For certain risks related to our financial strategy, see "Risk Factors."

OPERATING STRATEGY

     We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to increase
operating margins and enhance stockholder value. Our operating strategy to
accomplish this goal is to:

        (1) utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our
            executive management,

        (2) utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing
            day-to-day operations,

        (3) integrate waste operations,

        (4) improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost
            efficiencies and asset utilization, and achieve high levels of
            customer satisfaction.

     For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see "Risk Factors."

     - EXPERIENCED EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM.  We believe that we have one of
       the most experienced executive management teams in the solid waste
       industry.

          H. Wayne Huizenga, who has served as our Chairman since our initial
     public offering in July 1998, has over 26 years of experience in the solid
     waste industry. After several years of owning and operating private waste
     hauling companies in Florida, he co-founded Waste Management, Inc. in 1971.
     From 1971 to 1984, he served in various executive capacities with Waste
     Management, including President and Chief Operating Officer. By then, Waste
     Management had become the world's largest integrated solid



     waste services company. From 1987 to 1994, Mr. Huizenga served as Chairman
     and Chief Executive Officer of Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation,
     leading its growth from 19 stores to the world's largest video rental
     company. In August 1995, he became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
     AutoNation, Inc., our former parent company, which is the largest domestic
     automotive retailer.

          Harris W. Hudson, who has served as our Vice Chairman since our
     initial public offering, has over 36 years of experience in the solid waste
     industry. Mr. Hudson worked closely with Mr. Huizenga, from 1964 until
     1982, at Waste Management and at the private waste hauling firms they
     operated prior to the formation of Waste Management. In 1982, Mr. Hudson
     retired as Vice President of Waste Management of Florida, Inc., a
     subsidiary of Waste Management. In 1983, Mr. Hudson founded Hudson
     Management Corporation, a solid waste collection company in Florida, and
     served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until it merged with
     AutoNation in August 1995. By that time, Hudson Management had grown to
     over $50.0 million in annual revenue, becoming one of Florida's largest
     privately-held solid waste collection companies based on revenue. From
     August 1995 until our initial public offering, Mr. Hudson served in various
     capacities with AutoNation, including as Chairman of its Solid Waste Group.

          James E. O'Connor, who has served as our Chief Executive Officer since
     December 1998, also worked at Waste Management from 1972 to 1978 and from
     1982 to 1998. During that time, he served in various management positions,
     including Senior Vice President in 1997 and 1998, and Area President of
     Waste Management of Florida, Inc., from 1992 to 1997. Mr. O'Connor has over
     26 years of experience in the solid waste industry.

          The other corporate officers with responsibility for our operational
     affairs have an average of over 18 years of management experience in the
     solid waste industry. Our five Regional Vice Presidents have an average of
     20 years of experience in the industry, and our 20 Area Presidents have an
     average of 21 years of experience in the industry.

     - DECENTRALIZED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE.  We maintain a relatively small
       corporate headquarters staff, relying on a decentralized management
       structure to minimize administrative overhead costs and to manage our
       day-to-day operations more efficiently. Our local management has
       extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid
       waste companies and has substantial experience in their local geographic
       markets. The Regional Vice Presidents and Area Presidents have extensive
       authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their
       respective geographic markets. Compensation for management within regions
       and areas is primarily based on the improvement in operating income
       produced and the cash flow generated in each manager's geographic area of
       responsibility. In addition, through long-term incentive programs,
       including stock options, we believe we have one of the lowest turnover
       levels in the industry for our local management teams. As a result of
       retaining experienced managers with extensive local knowledge, community
       relations and name recognition, we react rapidly to changes in our
       markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of our various
       regions and areas throughout our operations to improve operating margins.

     - INTEGRATED OPERATIONS.  By controlling waste streams from the point of
       collection through disposal, we seek to achieve a high rate of waste
       integration. We expect that our fully integrated markets generally will
       have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our
       non-integrated markets. Through acquisitions and other market development
       activities, we create market specific, integrated operations typically
       consisting of one or more collection companies, transfer stations and
       landfills. We consider acquiring companies which own or operate landfills
       with significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels of
       waste volume. We also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in
       markets in which we own or operate landfills. In addition, we generate
       internal growth in our disposal operations by constructing new landfills
       and expanding our existing landfills from time to time in markets in
       which we have significant collection operations or in markets that we
       determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. During the three months
       ended December 31, 2000, approximately 52% of the total volume of waste
       that we collected was disposed of at landfills we own or operate compared
       to approximately 48% during the three months ended December 31, 1999.
       Because we do not have landfill facilities for all markets in which we
       provide collection services, we believe that through landfill and



       transfer station acquisitions and development we have the opportunity to
       increase our waste internalization rate and further integrate our
       operations. By further integrating operations in existing markets through
       acquisitions and development of landfills and transfer stations, we are
       able to reduce our disposal costs.

     - ECONOMIES OF SCALE, COST EFFICIENCIES AND ASSET UTILIZATION.  To improve
       operating margins, our management focuses on achieving economies of scale
       and cost efficiencies. The consolidation of acquired businesses into
       existing operations reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used
       for routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories
       and back-office administration. Generally, we are consolidating our
       administrative centers to reduce our general and administrative costs. We
       have reduced our selling, general and administrative expenses from 14.2%
       of revenue in 1996 to 9.2% of revenue in 2000. In addition, our size
       allows our company to negotiate volume discounts for certain purchases,
       including waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties.
       Furthermore, we have taken steps to increase utilization of our assets.
       For example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles, drivers are
       paid incentive wages based upon the number of customers they service on
       each route. In addition, routes are frequently analyzed and re-routed to
       ensure that the highest number of customers are efficiently serviced over
       the fewest possible miles. By using assets more efficiently, operating
       expenses are lowered significantly.

     - HIGH LEVELS OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION.  Our goal of maintaining high
       levels of customer satisfaction complements our operating strategy. Our
       personalized sales process is oriented towards maintaining relationships
       and ensuring that service is being properly provided.

GROWTH STRATEGY

     Our strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and
enhancing stockholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. For
certain risks related to our growth strategy, see "Risk Factors."

     - INTERNAL GROWTH.  Our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining
       existing customers and obtaining commercial, municipal and industrial
       customers through our well-managed sales and marketing activities.

          Long-Term Contracts.  We seek to obtain long-term contracts for
     collecting solid waste in high-growth markets. These include exclusive
     franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and
     industrial contracts. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the
     opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the
     underlying population growth in these markets. For example, we have secured
     exclusive, long-term franchise agreements in high-growth markets in Los
     Angeles and Orange Counties, California, Las Vegas, Nevada, Arlington,
     Texas and many areas of Florida. We believe that this positions our company
     to experience internal growth rates that are generally higher than our
     industry's overall growth rate. In addition, we believe that by securing a
     base of long-term recurring revenue in growth markets, we are better able
     to protect our market position from competition and our business may be
     less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions.

          Sales and Marketing Activities.  We seek to manage our sales and
     marketing activities to enable our company to capitalize on our leading
     positions in many of the markets in which we operate. We currently have
     approximately 460 sales and marketing employees in the field, who are
     incentivized by a commission structure to generate high levels of revenue.
     For the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing
     and prospective commercial, industrial, municipal and residential
     customers. We emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and
     existing sales personnel.

     - ACQUISITION GROWTH.  As a result of the highly fragmented nature of the
       solid waste industry, we have been able to grow significantly through
       acquisitions. Our acquisition growth strategy focuses on the
       approximately $20.0 billion of revenue generated by privately-held solid
       waste companies and municipal and local governmental authorities in 1999.
       We believe that our ability to acquire many of the privately-held
       companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste
       industry, increasing capital requirements as a result of changes in solid
       waste regulatory requirements and the



       limited number of exit strategies for these privately-held companies'
       owners and principals. We also seek to acquire operations and facilities
       from municipalities that are privatizing, which occurs for many of the
       same reasons that privately-held companies sell their solid waste
       businesses. In addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to
       acquire operations and facilities that may be divested by other
       publicly-owned waste companies. In sum, our acquisition growth strategy
       focuses on:

          - acquiring businesses that position our company for growth in
            existing and new markets,

          - acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining
            local management,

          - acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are
            privatizing and publicly-owned companies that are divesting of
            assets.

          For certain risks involved with our acquisition growth strategy, see
     "Risk Factors -- We may be unable to execute our acquisition growth
     strategy," "-- We may be unable to manage our growth effectively," and
     "-- Businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities."

          Acquire Businesses Positioning the Company for Growth.  In making
     acquisitions, we principally target high quality businesses that will allow
     our company to be, or provide our company favorable prospects of becoming,
     a leading provider of integrated solid waste services in markets with
     favorable demographic growth. Generally, we have acquired, and will
     continue to seek, solid waste collection, transfer and disposal companies
     that:

          - have strong operating margins,

          - are in growth markets,

          - are among the largest or have a significant presence in their local
            markets, and

          - have long-term contracts or franchises with municipalities and other
            customers.

          Once we have a base of operations in a particular market, we focus on
     acquiring trucks and routes of smaller businesses that also operate in that
     market and surrounding markets, which are typically referred to as
     "tuck-in" acquisitions. We seek to consolidate the operations of such
     tuck-in businesses into our existing operations in that market. In
     addition, we seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and collection
     companies that operate in markets that we are already servicing in order to
     fully integrate our operations from collection to disposal. By doing so, we
     are able to increase our revenue and market share, lower our cost of
     operations as a percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative
     facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of
     scale.

          Acquire Well-Managed Companies.  We also seek to acquire businesses
     that have experienced management teams that are willing to join the
     management of our company. We generally retain the local management of the
     larger acquired companies in order to capitalize on their local market
     knowledge, community relations and name recognition, and to instill their
     entrepreneurial drive at all levels of our operations. By furnishing the
     local management of such acquired companies with our financial and
     marketing resources and technical expertise, we believe that the acquired
     companies are better able to secure additional municipal franchises and
     other contracts. We believe that this will enable our company to grow
     internally acquired businesses at faster rates than the industry average.

          Privatize Municipal Operations and Acquire Divested Operations. We
     also seek to acquire solid waste collection operations, transfer stations
     and landfills that municipalities and other governmental authorities are
     privatizing. Many municipalities are seeking to outsource or sell these
     types of solid waste operations, as they lack the capital, technical
     expertise and/or operational resources necessary to comply with
     increasingly stringent regulatory standards and/or to compete effectively
     with private-sector companies. In addition, we have acquired, and will
     continue to seek to acquire, operations and facilities that may be divested
     by other publicly-owned waste companies.



OPERATIONS

     Our operations primarily consist of the collection and disposal of
non-hazardous solid waste.

     Collection Services.  We provide solid waste collection services to
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers in 22 states through
139 collection companies. In 2000, 76% of our revenue was derived from
collection services consisting of approximately 27% from services provided to
municipal and residential customers, 39% from services provided to commercial
customers and 34% from services provided to industrial customers.

     Our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of
refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer
stations or directly to landfills. Residential solid waste collection services
are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally
secure by competitive bid and which give our company exclusive rights to service
all or a portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. These contracts
or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of
our exclusive franchises are for as long as 34 years. Residential solid waste
collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which
individual households contract directly with our company. The fees received for
subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors,
frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and cost of
disposal. In general, subscription residential collection fees are paid
quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service.

     In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our
customers with small waste containers or large waste containers commonly known
as "roll-off" containers. We also rent compactors to large waste generators.
Commercial collection services are generally performed under one to three-year
service agreements, and fees are determined by such considerations as:

     - market factors,

     - collection frequency,

     - type of equipment furnished,

     - the type and volume or weight of the waste collected,

     - the distance to the disposal facility, and

     - the cost of disposal.

     We rent waste roll-off containers to construction sites and also provide
waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a
contractual basis with terms generally ranging from a single pickup to one year
or longer. We collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste
either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal.

     We own or operate 79 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these stations,
as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer
to trailers for transport to landfills, incinerators, recycling facilities or
other disposal sites.

     Also, we currently provide recycling services in certain markets primarily
to comply with local laws or obligations under our franchise agreements. These
services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the
provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial
customers.

     Disposal Services.  As of December 31, 2000, we owned or operated 53
landfills, which had approximately 7,200 permitted acres and total available
permitted disposal capacity of approximately 1.7 billion in-place cubic yards.
The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering
factors, requirements of regulatory authorities and the ability to expand sites
successfully. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste,
including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. See "-- Properties."

     Most of our existing landfill sites have the potential for expanded
disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. We monitor the
availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and
evaluate whether to pursue expansion at a given landfill based on estimated
future waste volumes and prices,



remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. We believe that
each of our landfills has adequate permitted capacity. To satisfy future
disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at
certain of our landfills, although no assurances can be made that all future
expansions will be permitted as designed.

     Other Services.  We have 21 materials recovery facilities and other
recycling operations, which are generally required to fulfill our obligations
under long-term municipal contracts for residential collection services. These
facilities primarily sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials.
Most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential
collection operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid
waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-
recyclable waste. The recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to
third parties and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or
incinerators. Wherever possible, our strategy is to reduce our exposure to
fluctuations in recyclable commodity prices by utilizing third party facilities,
thereby minimizing our recycling investment.

     We provide remediation and other heavy construction services primarily
through our subsidiary located in Missouri. During early 1998 this subsidiary
was awarded a contract by the Army Corps of Engineers to dredge a portion of the
Blue River. Revenue from this contract, which was completed in December 1999,
was approximately $52.0 million.

     We also have composting operations at which yard waste is composted,
packaged and sold as mulch.

SALES AND MARKETING

     We seek to provide quality services that will enable our company to
maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. We derive our business from a
broad customer base which we believe will enable our company to experience
stable growth. We focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding
business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers.

     We employ approximately 460 sales and marketing employees. Our sales and
marketing strategy is to provide high-quality comprehensive solid waste
collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at
competitive prices. We target potential customers of all sizes, from small
quantity generators to large "Fortune 500" companies and municipalities.

     Most of our marketing activity is local in nature. However, in 2000 we
initiated a national accounts program in response to our customers' needs. We
will continue to develop this program in 2001. We generally do not change the
tradenames of the local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate
nationally under any one mark or tradename. Rather, we rely on the goodwill
associated with the acquired companies' local tradenames as used in each
geographic market in which we operate.

CUSTOMERS

     We provide services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential
customers. No one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated revenue in any of the last three years.

COMPETITION

     We operate in a highly competitive industry, which is changing as a result
of rapid consolidation. Entry into our business and the ability to operate
profitably in the industry requires substantial amounts of capital and
managerial experience.

     Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few
large, national publicly-owned companies, including Waste Management and Allied
Waste Industries, several regional publicly- and privately-owned solid waste
companies, and thousands of small privately-owned companies in their respective
markets. Some of our competitors have significantly larger operations, and may
have significantly greater financial resources, than we do. In addition to
national and regional firms and numerous local companies, we



compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal
operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages due to the
availability of tax revenues and tax-exempt financing.

     We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the
quality of our services. From time to time, our competitors may reduce the price
of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively
bid municipal contract. This may have an impact on our future profitability.

     In each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for
landfill business on the basis of disposal costs, geographical location and
quality of operations. Our ability to obtain landfill business may be limited by
the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to
which they send their waste. There also has been an increasing trend at the
state and local levels to mandate waste reduction at the source and to prohibit
the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills. This
may result in the volume of waste going to landfills being reduced in certain
areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills at their full
capacity and/or affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal
services. In addition, most of the states in which we operate landfills have
adopted plans or requirements that set goals for specified percentages of
certain solid waste items to be recycled.

REGULATION

     Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state
and local requirements which regulate health, safety, the environment, zoning
and land use. Operating and other permits are generally required for landfills,
certain waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that
we own or operate, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and
renewal. Federal, state and local regulations vary, but generally govern
wastewater or stormwater discharges, air emissions, the treatment, storage,
transportation and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and the
remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous
substances. These regulations provide governmental authorities with strict
powers of enforcement, which include the ability to obtain injunctions and/or
impose fines or penalties in the case of violations, including criminal
penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal,
state and local environmental, health and safety agencies and authorities,
including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S.
Department of Labor, administer these regulations.

     We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. However, in the existing climate of heightened environmental
concerns, from time to time, we have been issued citations or notices from
governmental authorities which have resulted in the need to expend funds for
remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities.
There is no assurance that citations and notices will not be issued in the
future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established a reserve
which we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to
cover any potential regulatory costs. However, we cannot assure you that actual
costs will not exceed our reserve.

     Federal Regulation.  The following summarizes the primary environmental and
safety-related federal statutes of the United States affecting our facilities
and operations:

          (1) The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource
     Conservation and Recovery Act. The RCRA and its implementing regulations
     establish a framework for regulating the handling, transportation,
     treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid
     wastes, and require states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal
     of solid wastes in sanitary landfills.

          Subtitle D of the RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
     disposal of municipal solid wastes. Regulations under Subtitle D currently
     include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and
     guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating
     criteria, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance
     standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
     standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or enforced in the
     past in connection with municipal solid waste landfills. Each state was
     required to submit a permit program designed to implement Subtitle D
     regulations to the EPA by April 9, 1993. These state permit programs



     may include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of
     Subtitle D. All of the states in which we operate have implemented permit
     programs pursuant to the RCRA and Subtitle D.

          All of our planned landfill expansions or new landfill development
     projects have been engineered to meet or exceed Subtitle D requirements.
     Operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to
     comply with these new regulations. Compliance with the Subtitle D
     regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require
     substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
     associated with our waste management activities.

          (2) The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
     Liability Act of 1980. CERCLA, among other things, provides for the cleanup
     of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous
     substance into the environment. This Act may impose strict, joint and
     several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural
     resources upon current owners and operators of the site, parties who were
     owners or operators of the site at the time the hazardous substances were
     disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substance to the site
     and parties who arranged for disposal at the site. Under the authority of
     this Act and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to
     the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and
     sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released
     into the environment. Liability under this Act is not dependent upon the
     existence or disposal of "hazardous wastes" but can also be based upon the
     existence of small quantities of more than 700 "substances" characterized
     by the EPA as "hazardous," many of which may be found in common household
     waste.

          Among other things, this Act authorizes the federal government to
     investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or
     are threatened to be released into the environment, or to order (or offer
     an opportunity to) persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the
     hazardous substances to do so. In addition, the EPA has established a
     National Priorities List of sites at which hazardous substances have been
     or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or
     cleanup.

          Liability under CERCLA is not dependent upon the intentional disposal
     of hazardous wastes. It can be founded upon the release or threatened
     release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action,
     of thousands of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of
     such substances. Thus, even if our landfills have never knowingly received
     hazardous wastes as such, it is possible that one or more hazardous
     substances may have been deposited or "released" at our landfills or at
     other properties which we may have owned or operated. Therefore, we could
     be liable under CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous
     substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if
     those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or
     operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive. Given
     the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
     liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business and
     financial condition. For a further discussion, see "-- Liability Insurance
     and Bonding."

          (3) The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972. This Act
     regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including
     solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters. Point
     source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged
     into surface waters must be covered by discharge permits that generally
     require us to conduct sampling and monitoring and, under certain
     circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm
     water discharge regulations under this Act require a permit for certain
     construction activities, which may affect our operations. If a landfill or
     transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a
     publicly-owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge
     limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt
     groundwater protection programs under this Act or the Safe Drinking Water
     Act that could affect solid waste landfills. Furthermore, development which
     alters or affects "wetlands" must generally be permitted prior to such
     development commencing, and certain mitigation requirements may be required
     by the permitting agencies.

          (4) The Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on
     emissions from various sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the EPA
     enacted rules that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install
     landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to landfills that
     have been


     operating since November 1987, and that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic
     meters or more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the
     landfill is active or closed. The date by which each affected landfill must
     have the required gas collection and control system is dependent upon the
     adoption of state regulations and the date the EPA approves the state
     program. Many state regulatory agencies currently require monitoring
     systems for the collection and control of landfill gas. We do not expect
     that compliance with any new state regulations will have a material effect
     on us.

          (5) The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. This act
     authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to promulgate
     occupational safety and health standards. A number of these standards,
     including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of
     asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations.

     State Regulation.  Each state in which we operate has its own laws and
regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution and, in most
cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liability for such
matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation,
maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Our facilities and
operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. In addition,
our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend
in many states toward requiring the development of waste reduction and recycling
programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or
municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through waste planning,
composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in
landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of
certain wastes, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers,
unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries and household appliances in solid waste
landfills have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in
others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste
reduction at the source and waste recycling also are under consideration by
Congress and the EPA.

     In order to construct, expand and operate a landfill, one or more
construction or operating permits, as well as zoning approvals, must be
obtained. These are difficult and time-consuming to obtain, are often opposed by
neighboring landowners and citizens' groups, may be subject to periodic renewal
and, are subject to modification and revocation by the issuing agency. In
connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion
has been necessary for our company to expend considerable time, effort and money
to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements
and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.

     Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks which are
generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally
subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their
periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal and that, in the event of
leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe
that all our underground storage tanks currently meet federal regulations. If
underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, and the leakage migrates onto
the property of others, we could be liable for response costs and other damages
to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance
with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material
adverse effect on our business or financial condition.

     Finally, with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are
subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission and are
regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers and by
regulatory agencies in each state. Various states have enacted, or are
considering enacting, laws and regulations that would restrict the interstate
transportation and processing of solid waste. In 1978, the United States Supreme
Court held similar laws and regulations unconstitutional; however, states have
attempted to distinguish proposed laws and regulations from the laws and
regulations involved in that ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that state
and local flow control laws and ordinances, which attempt to restrict waste from
leaving its place of generation, were an impermissible burden on interstate
commerce, and therefore, were unconstitutional. In response to these Supreme
Court rulings, Congress has considered passing legislation authorizing states
and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate
commerce. If federal legislation authorizing state and local governments to
restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate commerce is enacted,
such legislation could adversely affect our operations.



     We have established a reserve for environmental and landfill costs, which
includes landfill site closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess
such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace
and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of the RCRA and adjust our rates
used to expense closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current
information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our reserves for such
environmental and landfill expenditures are adequate. However, environmental
laws may change, and there can be no assurance that our reserves will be
adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental regulations,
future changes or interpretations of existing regulations or the identification
of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations --
Landfill and Environmental Matters" and "Risk Factors -- Compliance with
environmental regulation may impede our growth."

LIABILITY INSURANCE AND BONDING

     The nature of our business exposes our company to the risk of liabilities
arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment.
Such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation
costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases
where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of
employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage
occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence in the
planning or performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and civil and
criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory
requirements. Because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental
damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. Our
solid waste operations have third party environmental liability insurance with
limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain
limitations and exclusions. However, we cannot assure you that the limits of
such environmental liability insurance would be adequate in the event of a major
loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry environmental
liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such
coverage costs prohibitive.

     We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices
liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability, worker's
compensation and employer's liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability
policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in
these primary policies. We also carry property insurance. Although we try to
operate safely and prudently and while we have, subject to limitations and
exclusions, substantial liability insurance, no assurance can be given that we
will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

     Our insurance programs for worker's compensation, general liability,
vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are effectively
self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully insured.
Accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not
reported.

     In the normal course of business, we may be required to post performance
bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit and/or cash deposits in connection
with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or
post-closure of landfills, certain remediation contracts, certain environmental
permits, and certain business licenses and permits. Bonds issued by surety
companies operate as a financial guarantee of our performance. To date, we have
satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash deposits or by
obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2000, we employed approximately 12,700 full-time
employees, approximately 2,800 of whom were covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Our management believes that we have good relations with our
employees.

CORPORATE HISTORY

     We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1996 by our former parent
company, AutoNation. In 1995, H. Wayne Huizenga, Harris W. Hudson and their
associates made an investment in AutoNation, then




known as Republic Waste Industries, Inc., and AutoNation subsequently acquired
businesses in several industries, including automotive dealerships and car
rental businesses in addition to over 100 non-hazardous solid waste companies.
In 1998, AutoNation separated its non-hazardous solid waste services division
from its other businesses by forming our company and we completed an initial
public offering of shares of our common stock. In 1999, AutoNation sold
substantially all of its remaining interest in our company in a secondary public
offering.

RISK FACTORS

     THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K INCLUDES "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS"
WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
AMENDED, INCLUDING, IN PARTICULAR, CERTAIN STATEMENTS ABOUT OUR PLANS,
STRATEGIES AND PROSPECTS. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT OUR PLANS, INTENTIONS AND
EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN OR SUGGESTED BY SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE
REASONABLE, WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT SUCH PLANS, INTENTIONS OR EXPECTATIONS
WILL BE ACHIEVED. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE OUR ACTUAL RESULTS TO
DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM OUR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS INCLUDE THOSE SET FORTH IN
THIS RISK FACTORS SECTION. ALL FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO US OR
ANY PERSONS ACTING ON OUR BEHALF ARE EXPRESSLY QUALIFIED IN THEIR ENTIRETY BY
THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS SET FORTH BELOW. UNLESS THE CONTEXT REQUIRES
OTHERWISE, ALL REFERENCES TO THE "COMPANY," "WE," "US" OR "OUR" INCLUDE REPUBLIC
SERVICES, INC. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES.

     IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS, OR OTHER RISKS NOT PRESENTLY KNOWN TO US OR
THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE TO NOT BE SIGNIFICANT, DEVELOP INTO ACTUAL EVENTS,
THEN OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS COULD
BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY AND MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE
EFFECTIVELY.

     We operate in a highly competitive business environment. Some of our
competitors have significantly larger operations and may have significantly
greater financial resources than we do. In addition, the solid waste industry is
constantly changing as a result of rapid consolidation which may create
additional competitive pressures in our business environment.

     We also compete with municipalities that maintain their own waste
collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have a financial
advantage over us as a result of the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt
financing.

     We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the
quality of services. From time to time our competitors may reduce the price of
their services in an effort to expand their market share or to win a
competitively bid municipal contract.

     In each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for solid
waste volume on the basis of disposal or "tipping" fees, geographical location
and quality of operations. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our
landfills may be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also
own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. In markets in which we
do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a
disadvantage to fully integrated competitors.

     As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively
from time to time.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS.

     During 2000, approximately 23% of our revenue was derived from our
industrial collection operation of which approximately 50% related to the
construction and demolition industries. Approximately 30% of our revenue was
from commercial collection customers. In addition, our transfer and disposal
facilities, which comprised approximately 17% of our total revenue, accept waste
from industrial and commercial customers. A period of economic downturn or a
decline in the construction industry could adversely affect volumes and pricing
in our collection, transfer and disposal operations.



AN INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF FUEL MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

     Our operations are dependent upon fuel, which we purchase in the open
market on a daily basis. During 2000, we experienced an increase in the cost of
fuel. A portion of this increase was passed on to our customers. However,
because of the competitive nature of the waste industry, if fuel costs continue
to escalate, there can be no assurances that we will be able to pass on future
fuel price increases to our customers. Accordingly, a significant increase in
fuel costs could adversely affect our business.

A DECREASE IN THE NUMBER OF AVAILABLE WORKERS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

     The waste business is labor intensive. During 2000, the nation experienced
record lows in unemployment. This tight labor market resulted in higher labor
costs for our company as we competed for a dwindling number of available
workers. While we do not anticipate a significant reduction in available
workers, our labor costs could be higher as we attempt to attract and retain
experienced employees in a tight labor market.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EXECUTE OUR FINANCIAL STRATEGY.

     Our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our
ability to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior debt. The
investment grade rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of
which are beyond our control.

     Our financial strategy is also dependent upon our ability to generate
sufficient free cash flow to acquire other solid waste businesses, repurchase
shares of our common stock and/or repay our debt. We cannot assure you that we
will generate sufficient free cash flow to execute our financial strategy or
that we will be able to repurchase our common stock at prices that are accretive
to earnings per share.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EXECUTE OUR ACQUISITION GROWTH STRATEGY.

     Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability
to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability
to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. The
consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired companies,
including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities,
the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings,
economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant
challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the
same time. In short, we cannot assure you that:

     - desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified,

     - we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified,

     - we will effectively consolidate companies which are acquired and fully or
       timely realize the expected cost savings, economies of scale or business
       efficiencies, or

     - any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings.

     Additional factors may negatively impact our acquisition growth strategy.
Our acquisition strategy requires spending significant amounts of capital. If we
are unable to obtain additional needed financing on acceptable terms, we may
need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could have a
material adverse effect on our growth prospects. The intense competition among
our competitors pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase
prices for solid waste businesses and increase our capital requirements and/or
prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. If any of the
aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our financial
condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely
affected.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY.

     Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial,
operational and management resources. In order to continue our growth, we will
need to add administrative and other personnel, and make additional investments
in operations and systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and
train qualified



personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to
the extent, and in the time, required.

BUSINESSES WE ACQUIRE MAY HAVE UNDISCLOSED LIABILITIES.

     In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our investigations of the acquisition
candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the
acquisition candidates. If we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities,
as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. We
typically try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by obtaining
indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment
of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by
acquiring only specified assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be
able to obtain indemnifications or that they will be enforceable, collectible or
sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed
liabilities arising from our acquisitions.

WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL.

     Our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key
employees and officers. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on
any of our officers. The loss of the services of key employees and officers,
whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to
attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.

COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION MAY IMPEDE OUR GROWTH.

     We may need to spend considerable time, effort and capital to keep our
facilities in compliance with federal, state and local requirements regulating
health, safety, environment, zoning and land use. In addition, some of our waste
operations that cross state boundaries could be adversely affected if the
federal government, or the state or locality in which these waste operations are
located, imposes discriminatory fees on, or otherwise limits or prohibits, the
transportation or disposal of solid waste. If environmental laws become more
stringent, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental
compliance may increase in the future. In addition, due to the possibility of
unanticipated events or regulatory developments, the amounts and timing of
future environmental expenditures could vary substantially from those we
currently anticipate. Because of the nature of our operations, we have in the
past, currently are, and may in the future be named as a potentially responsible
party in connection with the investigation or remediation of environmental
conditions. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any such investigations
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows. A significant judgment or fine against our company, or
our loss of significant permits or licenses, could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or prospects.

REGULATORY APPROVAL TO DEVELOP OR EXPAND OUR LANDFILLS AND TRANSFER STATIONS MAY
BE DELAYED OR DENIED.

     Our plans include developing new landfills and transfer stations, as well
as expanding the disposal and transfer capacities of certain of our landfills
and transfer stations, respectively. Various parties, including citizens' groups
and local politicians, sometimes challenge these projects. Responding to these
challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated
with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. In addition,
failure to receive regulatory approval would prohibit us from establishing new
facilities and expanding existing facilities.

OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ARE BASED UPON ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS THAT MAY
DIFFER FROM ACTUAL RESULTS.

     Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on
estimates and assumptions made by us. Actual results could differ from these
amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the
carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill
development costs, accruals for closure and post-



closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable, liabilities for
potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental
remediation, deferred taxes and self-insurance.

     We currently accrue for landfill closure and post-closure costs based on
consumption of landfill airspace. As of December 31, 2000, assuming that all
available landfill capacity is used, we expect to expense approximately $534.6
million of landfill closure and post-closure costs over the remaining lives of
these facilities. We cannot assure you that our reserves for landfill and
environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing
environmental regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing
regulations or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
unknown to us.

SEASONAL CHANGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS.

     Our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather
which could delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of
waste generated or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
other facilities.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EXTEND THE MATURITY OF OUR REVOLVING SHORT-TERM CREDIT
FACILITY.

     We have a revolving short-term credit facility in the principal amount of
$500.0 million which expires in July 2001. We anticipate extending the maturity
of this credit facility until July 2002. However, we cannot assure you that we
will receive such extension and, if so, whether such extension will be on terms
as favorable to us as those currently contained in the credit facility.

THE RESOLUTION OF CURRENT AND FUTURE LEGAL PROCEEDINGS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
COMPANY.

     Our company currently is and will continue to be involved in various
administrative and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. No
assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of these proceedings or the
effect such outcomes may have on us, or that our insurance coverages or reserves
with respect thereto are adequate. A significant judgment against us could have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. See "Legal Proceedings".

THE OUTCOME OF AN AUDIT BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
COMPANY.

     Through the date of our initial public offering in July 1998, we filed
consolidated federal income tax returns with AutoNation. The Internal Revenue
Service is auditing AutoNation's consolidated tax returns for fiscal years 1995
and 1996. In accordance with the tax sharing agreement we have with AutoNation,
we may be liable for certain assessments imposed by the Internal Revenue Service
resulting from this audit. No assurance can be given with respect to the outcome
of this audit or the effect it may have on us, or that our reserves with respect
thereto are adequate. A significant assessment against us could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     Our corporate headquarters are located in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida in
premises leased from a third party. As of December 31, 2000, we operated
approximately 5,100 collection vehicles. Certain of our property and equipment
are subject to operating leases or liens securing payment of portions of our
indebtedness. We also lease certain of our offices and equipment. We believe
that our facilities are sufficient for our current needs.

     The following table provides certain information regarding the 53 landfills
owned or operated by us as of December 31, 2000:



- ---------------

(1) Operated but not owned by us.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     We are and will continue to be involved in various administrative and legal
proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We can give you no assurance
regarding the outcome of these proceedings or the effect their outcomes may
have, or that our insurance coverages or reserves are adequate. A significant
judgment against our company, the loss of significant permits or licenses, or
the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations or prospects.

     In September 1999, several lawsuits were filed by certain shareholders
against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The plaintiffs in these
lawsuits claim, on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock
between January 28, 1999 and August 28, 1999, that the defendants violated
Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of l934 by, among other
things, allegedly making materially false and misleading statements regarding
our growth and the assets we acquired from Waste Management. In December 1999,
the Court consolidated these lawsuits and the consolidated action has been named
In Re: Republic Services, Inc. Securities Litigation. The plaintiffs filed a
consolidated complaint in February 2000 and the defendants filed a motion to
dismiss the consolidated complaint in April 2000. In February 2001, the Court
granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. In that
order, the Court granted plaintiffs leave to file an amended complaint by March
7, 2001. We believe the allegations contained in the consolidated complaint are
without merit and we will vigorously defend this and any related actions.
However, an unfavorable resolution of this lawsuit could have a material adverse
effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in one or
more future periods.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to our stockholders during the fourth quarter of
2000.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION, HOLDERS AND DIVIDENDS

     Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on July 1,
1998.

     The following table sets forth the range of the high and low sales prices
of our common stock for the periods indicated:



     On February 16, 2001 the last reported sales price of our common stock was
$15.99.

     There were approximately 97 record holders of our common stock at February
16, 2001.

     We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the
foreseeable future because we intend to retain all earnings for use in the
operation and expansion of our business. However, if we are unable to expand our
business by acquiring businesses that satisfy our acquisition growth strategy,
we may use a portion of our future earnings to repurchase our common stock.

     During 2000, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to
$150.0 million of our common stock. As of December 31, 2000, we paid $50.9
million to repurchase approximately 3.6 million shares of our stock.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The following Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with
our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto as of December 31, 2000
and 1999 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000
and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected
statements of operations data and the other operating data for the years 1997
and 1996 and the selected balance sheet data at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
were derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited
by Arthur Andersen LLP, independent certified public accountants. Certain
amounts in the historical Consolidated Financial Statements have been
reclassified to conform to the 2000 presentation. See Notes 1, 3 and 7 of the
Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of basis of
presentation, business combinations and stockholders' equity and their effect on
comparability of year-to-year data.







- ---------------

(a) Prior to our initial public offering on July 1, 1998, we had 100 shares of
    common stock outstanding, all of which were owned by AutoNation. Historical
    share and per share data have been retroactively adjusted for the
    recapitalization of our 100 shares of common stock into 95.7 million shares
    of common stock in July 1998.
(b) Pro forma basic and dilutive earnings per share exclude a $6.7 million
    pre-tax charge related primarily to the early closure of a landfill in south
    Texas.



(c) EBITDA represents operating income plus depreciation, amortization and
    depletion. While EBITDA data should not be construed as a substitute for
    operating income, net income or cash flows from operations in analyzing our
    operating performance, financial position and cash flows, we have included
    EBITDA data, which is not a measure of financial performance under generally
    accepted accounting principles, because we believe that this data is
    commonly used by certain investors to evaluate a company's performance in
    the solid waste industry. Due to the fact that not all companies calculate
    non-GAAP measures in the same manner, the EBITDA presentation herein may not
    be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
(d) EBITDA margin represents EBITDA divided by revenue.
(e) In July 1998, we repaid all amounts due to AutoNation as of June 30, 1998
    through the issuance of common stock and through all proceeds of our initial
    public offering.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our
Consolidated Financial Statements and their Notes contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. All references to historical share and per share data of
our common stock have been retroactively adjusted for the recapitalization of
the 100 shares of our common stock into approximately 95.7 million shares of
common stock in July 1998.

OUR BUSINESS

     We are a leading provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection and
disposal services in the United States. We provide solid waste collection
services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through
139 collection companies in 22 states. We also own or operate 79 transfer
stations, 53 solid waste landfills and 21 recycling facilities.

     We generate revenue primarily from our solid waste collection operations,
and our remaining revenue is from landfill disposal services and other services,
including recycling, remediation and composting operations.

     The following table reflects our total revenue by source for the year ended
December 31, 2000, and 1999 (in millions):



     Our revenue from collection operations consists of fees we receive from
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our residential and
commercial collection operations in some markets are based on long-term
contracts with municipalities. We generally provide industrial and commercial
collection operations to individual customers under contracts with terms up to
three years. Our revenue from landfill operations is from disposal or tipping
fees charged to third parties. In general, we integrate our recycling operations
with our collection operations and obtain revenue from the sale of recyclable
materials. No one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated revenue in any of the last three years.

     The cost of our collection operations is primarily variable and includes
disposal, labor, fuel and equipment maintenance costs. We try to be more
efficient by controlling the movement of waste streams from the point of
collection through disposal. During the three months ended December 31, 2000,
approximately 52% of the total volume of waste we collected was disposed of at
landfills we own or operate compared to approximately 48% during the three
months ended December 31, 1999.

     Our landfill cost of operations includes daily operating expenses, costs of
capital for cell development, accruals for closure and post-closure costs, and
the legal and administrative costs of ongoing environmental compliance. We
expense all indirect landfill development costs as they are incurred. We use
life cycle accounting and the units-of-consumption method to recognize certain
direct landfill costs. In life cycle



accounting, certain direct costs are capitalized and charged to expense based
upon the consumption of cubic yards of available airspace. These costs include
all costs to:

     - acquire,

     - construct,

     - close and

     - maintain a site during the post closure period.

     Cost and airspace estimates are developed annually by independent engineers
together with our engineers. These estimates are used by our operating and
accounting personnel to annually adjust our rates used to expense capitalized
costs and accrue closure and post-closure costs. Changes in these estimates
primarily relate to changes in available airspace, inflation rates and
applicable regulations. Changes in available airspace include changes due to the
addition of airspace lying in expansion areas deemed likely to be permitted.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     We make decisions to acquire or invest in businesses based on financial and
strategic considerations. We have included businesses that we acquired and which
have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in our
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.

     In July 1999, we entered into a definitive agreement with Allied to acquire
certain solid waste assets for approximately $230.0 million in cash. In October
1999, regulatory approval relating to the acquisition of certain of the assets
was denied. The agreement was subsequently amended for us to acquire one
landfill operation, five transfer stations and a subset of small container
hauling assets for a reduced price. By September 30, 2000, we had completed the
purchase of these assets for approximately $105.5 million in cash, $85.8 million
of which were acquired during 2000. In addition, we entered into a definitive
agreement with Allied for the simultaneous purchase and sale of certain other
solid waste assets. By September 30, 2000, we and Allied had completed the
purchase and sale of these assets. Net proceeds from the cash portion of the
exchange of assets were $28.6 million. All of these transactions have been
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.

     In September 1998, we signed an agreement with Waste Management to acquire
assets and to enter into disposal agreements at various Waste Management
facilities. By June 1999, we had completed the purchase of the assets for
approximately $479.6 million in cash plus properties, $292.7 million of which
were acquired during the six months ended June 30, 1999. The assets purchased
included 16 landfills, 11 transfer stations and 136 commercial collection routes
across the United States, and were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting.

     In addition to the acquisitions from Allied and Waste Management, we also
acquired various other solid waste businesses during the years ended December
31, 2000 and 1999, which were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. The aggregate purchase price we paid in these transactions was
$102.5 and $430.8 million in cash, respectively.

     Cost in excess of fair value of net assets acquired for 2000 acquisitions
totaled approximately $253.4 million. As of December 31, 2000 we had intangible
assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $1,435.0 million, which consist
primarily of the cost in excess of fair value of net assets acquired. We
amortize cost in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over forty
years on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 2000, the amortization
expense associated with these intangible assets on an annualized basis is
approximately $37.5 million. We believe the forty-year life assigned to the cost
in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired is reasonable as the
businesses we acquired are generally well-established companies which have been
in existence for many years and have stable, long-term customer relationships.

     During 2000, $30.9 million of the total purchase price paid for
acquisitions was allocated to landfill airspace. As of December 31, 2000, we had
$865.5 million of landfill development costs which includes



purchase price allocated to landfill airspace as well as other capitalized
landfill costs. Purchase price is allocated to airspace based upon the
discounted expected future cash flows of the landfill relative to the other
assets within the acquired group and is adjusted for other non-depletable
landfill assets and liabilities acquired (primarily closure and post-closure
liabilities). Landfill purchase price is amortized using the units-of-
consumption method over total available airspace which includes likely to be
permitted airspace where appropriate.

     Cost in excess of fair value of net assets acquired for 1999 acquisitions
totaled approximately $419.3 million. As of December 31, 1999, we had intangible
assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $1,297.3 million, which consist
primarily of the cost in excess of fair value of net assets acquired. In
addition, during 1999, $328.8 million of the total purchase price paid for
acquisitions was allocated to landfill airspace.

     During the year ended December 31, 1998, AutoNation acquired various solid
waste businesses which it contributed to our company. The aggregate purchase
price AutoNation paid in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting was $128.3 million, consisting of cash and approximately 3.4 million
shares of AutoNation common stock. Subsequent to our initial public offering, we
acquired various solid waste businesses. The aggregate purchase price we paid in
transactions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting was $450.5
million consisting of cash and certain properties. Cost in excess of fair value
of net assets acquired for 1998 acquisitions totaled approximately $577.2
million. In addition, during 1998, $81.0 million of the total purchase price
paid for acquisitions was allocated to landfill airspace.

     See Note 3, Business Combinations, of the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, for further discussion of business combinations.

BACKGROUND

     In May 1998, AutoNation announced its intention to separate our company,
which at the time was a wholly-owned subsidiary of AutoNation, from AutoNation,
and for our company to complete an initial public offering of common stock. As a
result, we entered into certain agreements with AutoNation providing for the
separation and governing various interim and ongoing relationships between our
company and AutoNation.

     As part of the separation, and prior to our initial public offering of
common stock, we declared and paid a $2.0 billion dividend in April 1998 to
AutoNation with a series of promissory notes. In addition, we owed AutoNation
approximately $139.5 million and owed Republic Resources Company, at that time a
subsidiary of ours, approximately $165.4 million, net of an approximate $90.5
million that Resources owed to our company. On June 30, 1998, we repaid $565.4
million of the promissory notes that we owed to AutoNation with cash, assets we
received from Resources and with the receivable that Resources owed to our
company. In addition, we distributed all of our shares of common stock of
Resources to AutoNation. We repaid the approximately $139.5 million we owed to
AutoNation and the approximately $255.9 million we owed to Resources by issuing
approximately 16.5 million shares of our common stock to AutoNation, and we
repaid the remaining balance of the promissory notes due to AutoNation with all
of the net proceeds from our issuance and sale of approximately 63.2 million
shares of common stock in our initial public offering completed in July 1998,
which totalled approximately $1.4 billion.

     Following our initial public offering and the repayment of amounts due to
AutoNation, AutoNation owned approximately 63.9% of the outstanding shares of
our common stock. Following the recapitalization of our common stock, repayment
of amounts due to AutoNation and our initial public offering, we had the
following shares of common stock outstanding (in millions):



     In March 1999, AutoNation exercised registration rights that it had with
our company in order to be able to sell its entire interest in our company,
consisting of approximately 112.2 million shares of common stock,



and, in May 1999, AutoNation sold substantially all of these shares of common
stock in a secondary public offering. We received no proceeds in the secondary
public offering.

     Prior to our initial public offering, our employees received options under
AutoNation's stock option plans. In March 1999, options to purchase
approximately 8.0 million shares of AutoNation common stock were cancelled and
were replaced, on a one-for-one basis, with options to purchase shares of our
common stock under our 1998 Stock Incentive Plan. These replacement options
retained the vesting and exercise rights of the original options, subject to
exercise limitations for individuals who signed stock option repricing
agreements with AutoNation. The individual replacement options were priced so
that the unrealized gain or loss on each of the AutoNation options was generally
maintained under the replacement options. The compensation expense related to
our granting of replacement options with exercise prices below the quoted market
price of the common stock at the date of grant was approximately $2.0 million,
which we recorded in the first quarter of 1999 as a one-time charge to earnings.

     AutoNation provided our company with the services of a number of its
executives and employees. In consideration for these services, AutoNation
allocated to our company a portion of its general and administrative costs
related to these services. Prior to the separation of the two companies, this
allocation had historically been based on the proportion of our invested capital
as a percentage of the consolidated invested capital of AutoNation and its
subsidiaries, including our company. In June 1998, we entered into a services
agreement with AutoNation under which AutoNation agreed to continue to provide
various general and administrative services to our company in exchange for a
monthly fee of $1.25 million. Effective January 1, 1999, we negotiated a
reduction in this fee to $0.9 million per month. The services agreement expired
on June 30, 1999. Our management believes that the amounts allocated to our
company and/or charged under the services agreement were no less favorable to
our company than costs we would have incurred to obtain such services on our own
or from unaffiliated third parties.

     We recorded other charges of $6.9 million for the year ended December 31,
1999. These costs relate to our separation from AutoNation. They consist of $2.0
million of compensation expense related to the granting of certain replacement
employee stock options at exercise prices below the quoted market price of our
common stock at the date of grant. See Note 8, Stock Options, of the Notes to
our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. They also consist
of $4.9 million of other additional charges directly related to our separation.

     The 1998 and 1999 historical consolidated financial information included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect what our financial
position and results of operations would have been had we been operated as a
separate, stand-alone entity during those periods.

PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Our pro forma net income was $225.1 million, or $1.29 per share, for the
year ended December 31, 2000. Our pro forma operating results exclude a $6.7
million pre-tax charge related primarily to the early closure of a landfill in
south Texas.

     See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, for further discussion of pro forma operating results.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

     Our net income was $221.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, as
compared to $200.8 million in 1999 and $153.7 million in 1998. Our operating
results for the year ended December 31, 2000 include other charges further
described below.



     The following table summarizes our costs and expenses in millions of
dollars and as a percentage of our revenue for 1998 through 2000:



     Revenue.  Revenue was $2,103.3 million, $1,869.3 million and $1,375.0
million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Revenue increased by $234.0 million, or 12.5%, from 1999 to 2000. Revenue
increased by $494.3 million, or 36.0%, from 1998 to 1999. The following table
reflects the components of our revenue growth for the years ended December 31,
2000 and 1999:



     Volume growth for the twelve months ended December 31, 2000 was impacted by
non-core operations, primarily our remediation company located in Missouri.
Volume growth was 5.0% excluding the effect of these operations. We believe that
a period of economic downturn or decline in the construction industry could
impact price and volume growth in 2001.

     Cost of Operations.  Cost of operations was $1,271.3 million, $1,131.9
million and $848.6, or, as a percentage of revenue, 60.5%, 60.5% and 61.7%, for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The increases in
aggregate dollars are a result of the expansion of our operations through
acquisitions and internal growth. The decreases in cost of operations as a
percentage of revenue from 1998 to 1999 are primarily a result of our improved
operating efficiencies and an increase in higher margin landfill operations
primarily due to acquisitions. Cost of operations as a percentage of revenue
remained constant from 1999 to 2000 because improved operating efficiencies and
an increase in higher margin landfill operations primarily due to acquisitions
were offset by higher fuel and labor costs. We expect higher fuel and labor
costs to continue to impact cost of operations during fiscal 2001.

     Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment.
Depreciation, amortization and depletion expenses for property and equipment
were $157.0 million, $130.3 million and $88.4 million, or, as a percentage of
revenue, 7.5%, 7.0%, and 6.4%, for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively. The increases in aggregate dollars and as percentages of
revenue for all periods presented are primarily due to acquisitions and capital
expenditures.

     Amortization of Intangible Assets.  Expenses for amortization of intangible
assets were $40.4 million, $32.9 million and $17.9 million, or, as a percentage
of revenue, 1.9%, 1.7%, and 1.3%, for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999
and 1998, respectively. The increase in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of
revenue is primarily due to an increase in the aggregate dollar amount of
acquisitions accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.

     Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.  Selling, general and
administrative expenses were $193.9 million, $176.7 million, $135.8 million, or,
as a percentage of revenue, 9.2%, 9.5% and 9.9%, for the years ended December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The increases in aggregate dollars are a
result of the



expansion of our operations through acquisitions and internal growth. The
decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses as percentages of
revenue in each of the years are primarily due to applying our existing overhead
structure over an expanding revenue base. Included in selling, general and
administrative expenses are allocations of AutoNation's corporate general and
administrative costs of $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, and
fees paid to AutoNation under the services agreement of $5.3 million and $7.5
million for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. See Note
11, Related Party Transactions, of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information. We expect selling, general and
administrative expenses to increase during fiscal 2001 as we invest in
information systems and training.

     Other Charges.  Other charges were $6.7 million for the year ended December
31, 2000. These charges relate primarily to the early closure of a landfill in
south Texas.

     We recorded other charges of $6.9 million for the year ended December 31,
1999. These costs relate to our separation from AutoNation. They include $2.0
million of compensation expense related to the granting of certain replacement
employee stock options at exercise prices below the quoted market price of our
common stock at the date of grant. See Note 8, Stock Options, of the Notes to
our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. They also include
$4.9 million of other additional charges directly related to our separation.

     Operating Income.  Operating income was $434.0 million, $390.6 million and
$284.3 million, or, as a percentage of revenue, 20.6%, 20.9% and 20.7%, for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     Interest Expense.  We incurred interest expense on our revolving credit
facility, our unsecured notes, tax-exempt bonds, amounts due to AutoNation and
debt we assumed in acquisitions. Interest expense was $81.6 million, $64.2
million and $44.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, and includes interest expense on amounts due to AutoNation of
$37.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. We repaid in full the
amounts due to AutoNation in July 1998 by issuing our common stock and from the
net proceeds of our initial public offering. The increase in interest expense
from 1998 to 2000 is primarily due to an increase in average debt balances. The
increase is also due to a general market increase in interest rates since the
third quarter of 1999.

     Capitalized interest was $2.9 million, $5.6 million and $.8 million for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net.  Interest and other income, net
of other expense, was $4.0 million, $.1 million and $.6 million for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The variances during the
periods are primarily due to fluctuations in cash balances on hand and related
interest income and net gains on the disposition of assets during 2000. The
amount recorded for the year ended December 31, 1999 includes a $2.9 million
loss on the sale of our only international operation, a collection and disposal
business in Costa Rica.

     Income Taxes.  Our provision for income taxes was $135.4 million, $125.7
million and $86.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The effective income tax rate was 38.0%, 38.5%, and 36.0% for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     As of our initial public offering in July 1998, we are no longer included
in AutoNation's federal tax returns.



LANDFILL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

  Available Airspace

     The following tables reflect landfill airspace activity for landfills owned
or operated by us for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 2000:





     During 2000, we actively pursued obtaining landfill permits which resulted
in adding over twice as much permitted airspace during the year than was
consumed.

     As of December 31, 2000, we owned or operated 53 solid waste landfills with
total available disposal capacity estimated to be 1.7 billion in-place cubic
yards. Total available disposal capacity represents the sum of estimated
permitted airspace plus an estimate of airspace deemed by us to be likely to be
permitted. These estimates are developed annually by independent engineers
together with our engineers utilizing information provided by annual aerial
surveys. As of December 31, 2000, total available disposal capacity is estimated
to be 1.4 billion in-place cubic yards of permitted airspace plus .3 billion
in-place cubic yards of expansion airspace which has been determined by us as
likely to be permitted. Before airspace included in an expansion area is
determined as likely to be permitted and, therefore, included in our calculation
of total available disposal capacity, it must meet our expansion criteria. See
Note 4, Landfill and Accrued Environmental Costs, of the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

     As of December 31, 2000, 17 of our landfills meet the criteria for
including expansion airspace in their total available disposal capacity. At
projected annual volumes, these 17 landfills have an estimated remaining average
site life of 32 years, including the expansion airspace. The average estimated
remaining life of all of our landfills is 37 years.

     As of December 31, 2000, six of our landfills that meet the criteria for
including expansion airspace had obtained approval from local authorities and
are proceeding into the state permitting process. Also, as of December 31, 2000,
three of our 17 landfills that meet the criteria for including expansion
airspace had submitted permit applications to state authorities. The remaining
eight landfills that meet the criteria for including expansion airspace are in
the process of obtaining approval from local authorities and have not identified
any fatal flaws or impediments associated with the expansions at either the
local or state level.



     We have never been denied an expansion permit for a landfill that included
likely to be permitted airspace in its total available disposal capacity,
although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted
as designed.

  Closure and Post-Closure Costs

     During the year ended December 31, 2000, we consumed approximately 32.5
million cubic yards of airspace. During this same period, charges to expense for
closure and post-closure were $23.4 million, or $.72 per cubic yard. As of
December 31, 2000, accrued closure and post-closure costs were $167.6 million.
The current portion of these costs of $16.8 million is reflected in our
Consolidated Balance Sheet in other current liabilities. The long-term portion
of these costs of $150.8 million is reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet
in accrued environmental and landfill costs. As of December 31, 2000, assuming
that all available landfill capacity is used, we expect to expense approximately
$534.6 million of additional closure and post-closure costs over the remaining
lives of our facilities.

     Our estimates for closure and post-closure do not take into account
discounts for the present value of total estimated costs. If total estimated
costs were discounted to present value, they would be lower.

  Investment in Landfills

     The following tables reflect changes in our investment in landfills for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 2000 and the future expected investment as of
December 31, 2000 (in millions):



     As of December 31, 1999, we owned or operated 55 solid waste landfills with
total available disposal capacity estimated to be 1.7 billion in-place cubic
yards. Our net investment in these landfills, excluding non-depletable land, was
$736.8 million, or approximately $.44 per cubic yard.

     As of December 31, 2000, we owned or operated 53 solid waste landfills with
total available disposal capacity estimated to be 1.7 billion in-place cubic
yards. Our net investment in these landfills, excluding non-depletable land, was
$732.6 million, or $.44 per cubic yard. During the year ended December 31, 2000,
our depletion and amortization expense relating to landfills was $61.9 million,
or $1.90 per cubic yard.

     As of December 31, 2000, we expect to spend an estimated additional $1.0
billion on existing landfills, primarily related to cell construction and
environmental structures, over their expected remaining lives. Our total
expected gross investment, excluding non-depletable land, estimated to be $1.7
billion, or $1.06 per cubic



yard, is used in determining our depletion and amortization expense based upon
airspace consumed using the units-of-consumption method. Our estimates for
expected future investment in landfills do not take into account discounts for
the present value of total estimated costs. For further information, see
"Closure and Post-Closure Costs".

     We accrue costs related to environmental remediation activities through a
charge to income in the period such liabilities become probable and can be
reasonably estimated. No material amounts were charged to expense during the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

     At December 31, 2000, we had $2.0 million of cash and cash equivalents. We
also had $84.3 million of restricted cash, which primarily relates to proceeds
from tax-exempt bonds that will be used to fund capital expenditures.

     As previously discussed, in July 1998, we completed our initial public
offering of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.4
billion. In July 1998, we repaid all remaining amounts due to AutoNation with
all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and by issuing additional
shares of our common stock.

     Prior to our initial public offering, we obtained working capital and
capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, from
AutoNation. Since our initial public offering, AutoNation has not provided funds
to finance our operations or acquisitions. In July 1998, we entered into a $1.0
billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks. $500.0
million of the credit facility had an original term of 364 days and the
remaining $500.0 million expires in July 2003. We have extended the short-term
portion of the credit facility for additional one year terms through July 2001.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR-based rates. We use
our own operating cash flow and proceeds from our credit facilities to finance
our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and
other requirements. As of December 31, 2000, we had approximately $422.0 million
of availability under the short-term portion of the credit facility.

     In May 1999, we sold $600.0 million of unsecured notes in the public
market. $225.0 million of these notes bear interest at 6 5/8% per annum and
mature in 2004. The remaining $375.0 million bear interest at 7 1/8% per annum
and mature in 2009. Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually in May and
November. The $225.0 million and $375.0 million in notes were offered at a
discount of $1.0 million and $.5 million, respectively. Proceeds from the notes
were used to repay our revolving credit facility.

     In December 1999, we entered into a $100.0 million operating lease facility
established to finance the acquisition of operating equipment consisting
primarily of revenue-producing vehicles. As of December 31, 2000, $89.4 million
was outstanding under this facility, of which $59.2 million was added during the
twelve months ended December 31, 2000.

     At December 31, 2000, we had $99.5 million of tax-exempt bonds outstanding
of which approximately $57.5 million was obtained during fiscal 2000. Borrowings
under these bonds bear interest based on floating interest rates at the
prevailing market ranging from 4.4% to 5.2% at December 31, 2000 and have
maturities ranging from 2001 to 2030. As of December 31, 2000, we had $58.8
million of restricted cash related to proceeds from tax-exempt bonds. This
restricted cash will be used to fund capital expenditures under the terms of the
bonds.

     We plan to extend the maturity of our revolving short-term credit facility
prior to its expiration in July 2001 to July 2002. We believe that such an
extension would provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our
anticipated capital requirements and obligations as they come due. We believe
that we would be able to raise additional debt or equity financing, if
necessary, to fund special corporate needs or to complete acquisitions. However,
we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing under
favorable terms or to extend the existing short-term credit facility on the same
terms.



SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ACCOUNTS

     In 1999, we were the first in our industry to provide the users of our
financial statements with additional disclosures regarding selected balance
sheet accounts. These additional disclosures include schedules that show the
activity in our available airspace, investment in landfills, property, plant and
equipment, and selected balance sheet accounts. We believe that making these
disclosures permits the readers of our financial statements to gain a better
understanding of our company's cash flow generating capabilities.

     The following tables reflect the activity in our allowance for doubtful
accounts, accrued closure and post-closure, accrued self-insurance and amounts
due to former owners during the years ended December 31, 1999 and 2000 (in
millions):





     Additions to accrued liabilities related to acquisitions are periodically
reviewed during the year subsequent to the acquisition. During such reviews,
accrued liabilities which are considered to be in excess of amounts required for
a specific acquisition are reversed and charged against goodwill (cost in excess
of fair value of net assets acquired) or landfill purchase price allocated to
airspace, as appropriate.

     As of December 31, 2000, accounts receivable were $241.3 million, net of
allowance for doubtful accounts of $13.2 million, resulting in days sales
outstanding of 41 days, or 30 days net of deferred revenue.



  Property, Plant and Equipment

     The following tables reflect the activity in our property, plant and
equipment accounts for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 2000 (in millions):









     The tables above exclude $59.2 million of operating equipment consisting
primarily of revenue producing vehicles which were added during the year ended
December 31, 2000 and are subject to our operating lease facility.



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The major components of changes in cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 are discussed below.

     Cash Flows From Operating Activities.  Cash flows provided by operating
activities was $461.8 million, $323.8 million and $271.1 million for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The changes in cash
provided by operating activities during the periods are due to expansion of our
business.

     Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities.  Cash flows used in investing
activities consist primarily of cash used for business acquisitions and capital
additions. Cash used to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired, was $188.1
million, $777.9 million and $446.1 million during the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Prior to our initial public offering,
business acquisitions were funded by AutoNation. Capital additions were $208.0
million, $294.5 million and $203.6 million during the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     We intend to finance capital expenditures and acquisitions through cash on
hand, cash flows from operations, our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility,
tax-exempt bonds and other financing. We expect to use primarily cash for future
business acquisitions.

     Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities. Cash flows provided
by financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
included commercial bank borrowings and repayments of debt in all three years,
proceeds from our sale of common stock in our initial public offering and
affiliate borrowings in 1998, proceeds from our sale of unsecured notes in 1999
and proceeds from issuances of tax-exempt bonds in 2000. In May 1999, we sold
unsecured notes with a face value of $600.0 million at a discounted price of
$598.5 million. Proceeds from the notes were used to repay our revolving credit
facility.

     In December 1999, we entered into a $100.0 million operating lease facility
established to finance the acquisition of operating equipment consisting
primarily of revenue-producing vehicles. At December 31, 2000, $89.4 million was
outstanding under this facility.

     During fiscal 2000, we announced that our board of directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $150.0 million of our common stock. As of December 31, 2000,
we paid $50.9 million to repurchase approximately 3.6 million shares of our
stock. We intend to finance future stock repurchases through cash on hand, cash
flow from operations, our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and other
financing.

     We used proceeds from bank facilities, affiliate borrowings, unsecured
notes and tax-exempt bonds to fund acquisitions and capital additions, and to
repay debt. We used all of the proceeds from our initial public offering of
common stock in 1998 to repay amounts due to AutoNation.

     Our company has received an investment grade rating from the nation's
largest credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2000, our senior debt was
rated Baa3 by Moody's, BBB by Standard & Poor's and BBB+ by Fitch.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The table below provides information about our market sensitive financial
instruments and constitutes a "forward-looking statement." Our major market risk
exposure is changing interest rates in the United States and fluctuations in
LIBOR. We intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination
of fixed and floating rate debt. All items described below are non-trading.





     The fair value of variable rate debt approximates the carrying value since
interest rates are variable and, thus, approximates current market rates.

SEASONALITY

     Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather
which could delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of
waste generated or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
other facilities.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No.
133". SFAS 137 amends FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," by deferring the
effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS
133 was further amended in June 2000 by the issuance of SFAS 138, "Accounting
for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities -- An
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133". SFAS 133, as amended, establishes
accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument
(including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be
recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its
fair value. SFAS 133, as amended, requires that changes in the derivative's fair
value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting
criteria are met. We adopted SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001. As of January 1, 2001,
we did not have any instruments that met the definition of a derivative under
SFAS 133.

     In February 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a revised
Exposure Draft entitled "Business Combinations and Intangibles
Assets -- Accounting for Goodwill." This Exposure Draft, if adopted as proposed,
would eliminate the amortization of goodwill against earnings. Instead, it would
be written down against earnings only in the periods in which the recorded value
of the goodwill is more than its fair value. The FASB is expected to issue a
final statement on business combinations and intangible assets in June 2001.
During 2000, our company amortized $36.5 million of goodwill against earnings.
Accordingly, the adoption of this statement, if issued as proposed, would have a
material impact on our consolidated results of operations.

     In February 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a revised
Exposure Draft on "Accounting for Obligations Associated with the Retirement of
Long-Lived Assets". This Exposure Draft, if adopted as proposed, would require
our company to change the accounting methodology we currently use to record
closure and post-closure liabilities related to our landfills. The more
significant of these changes includes measuring all future obligations at fair
value and discounting future obligations to reflect today's dollars. The final
statement on this matter is expected to be effective for fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2001. The statement is also expected to require a cumulative
effect approach to recognizing transition amounts for existing asset retirement
obligations. We do expect the adoption of this standard, if issued as proposed,
to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of
operations.

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Certain statements and information included herein, including projections
of future cash flow, net income, earnings per share, the existence of our
ability to achieve revenue growth, including pricing, volume and acquisition
growth, in the future, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which
include, among other things, the discussions of our growth and operating
strategies and expectations concerning market position, future operations,
margins, revenue, profitability, liquidity and capital resources, as well as
statements concerning the integration of the operations of acquired businesses
and achievement of financial benefits and operational efficiencies in connection
therewith. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance,
or achievements of our company to be materially different from any future
results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied, in or by such



forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, whether
our estimates and underlying assumptions concerning our selected balance sheet
accounts, closure and post-closure costs, available airspace, and projected
costs and expenses related to our landfills and property, plant and equipment,
and labor and fuel rates, and inflationary trends turn out to be correct or
appropriate, and various factors that will impact our actual business and
financial performance such as competition in the solid waste industry; our
dependence on acquisitions for growth; our ability to manage growth; compliance
with and future changes in environmental regulations; our ability to obtain
approval from regulatory agencies in connection with expansions at our
landfills; the ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance our
operations and growth strategy and of our company to operate within the
limitations imposed by financing arrangements; our ability to repurchase common
stock at prices that are accretive to earnings per share; our dependence on key
personnel; general economic conditions including but not limited to inflation
and changes in fuel, labor and other variable costs that are generally not
within our control; our dependence on large, long-term collection contracts;
risk associated with undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses; risks
associated with pending legal proceedings; and other factors contained in this
section and under the section entitled "BUSINESS -- Risk Factors." We assume no
duty to update the forward-looking statements.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Republic Services, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Republic
Services, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000
and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2000. These financial statements and the schedule referred to below
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our
audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Republic Services, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the index to
consolidated financial statements is presented for the purpose of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
January 29, 2001.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (ALL TABLES IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

1.  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
Republic Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company"). The Company
provides non-hazardous solid waste collection and disposal services in the
United States. All material intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

     The historical Consolidated Financial Statements through the date of the
secondary offering in May 1999 reflect the accounts of the Company as a
subsidiary of AutoNation, Inc., formerly known as Republic Industries, Inc.
(together with its subsidiaries, "AutoNation"), subject to corporate general and
administrative expense allocations or charges under the Services Agreement as
described in Note 11, Related Party Transactions. Such information does not
necessarily reflect the financial position or results of operations of the
Company as a separate, stand-alone entity.

     All historical share and per share data of the Company's common stock, par
value $.01 per share ("Common Stock", which was formerly designated as either
"Class A Common Stock" or "Class B Common Stock"), for the year ended December
31, 1998 in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto have
been retroactively adjusted for the recapitalization of AutoNation's 100 shares
of Common Stock previously outstanding into 95.7 million shares of Class B
Common Stock in July 1998.

     In July 1998, the Company completed an initial public offering of its Class
A Common Stock ("Initial Public Offering") resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $1.4 billion. In addition, in July 1998 the Company repaid in full
all amounts due to AutoNation as of June 30, 1998 through the issuance of 16.5
million shares of Class A Common Stock and through the payment of all proceeds
from the Initial Public Offering. Following the Initial Public Offering and the
repayment of amounts due to AutoNation, approximately 63.9% of the outstanding
shares of Common Stock were owned by AutoNation.

     In March 1999, AutoNation converted all 95.7 million shares of its Class B
Common Stock into Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis. In April 1999,
AutoNation transferred all of its Class A Common Stock to its indirect,
wholly-owned subsidiary, AutoNation Insurance Company, and the Company
registered all 112.2 million shares of Class A Common Stock owned by AutoNation.
In May 1999, the Company completed a secondary offering, in which AutoNation
sold substantially all of the Class A Common Stock it owned in the Company. In
June 1999, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to eliminate the
classifications of Common Stock.

     Other charges of $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 are
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. These costs are primarily
related to the early closure of a landfill in south Texas.

     Other charges of $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999 are
included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. These costs relate to the Company's separation from
AutoNation and consist of approximately $2.0 million of compensation expenses
related to the granting of certain replacement employee stock options at
exercise prices below the quoted market price of the Company's Common Stock at
the date of grant (see Note 8, Stock Options) and approximately $4.9 million of
additional charges directly related to the separation.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for
the year ended December 31, 2000 excludes the $6.7 million pre-tax charge
related primarily to the early closure of a landfill in south Texas:



     The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations is provided
for informational purposes only and does not project the Company's results of
operations for any future date or period.

     Certain amounts in the 1999 and 1998 Consolidated Financial Statements have
been reclassified to conform to the 2000 presentation.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on
estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ from
these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals
for closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts
receivable, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and
liabilities for environmental remediation, deferred taxes and self-insurance.

RESTRICTED CASH

     Restricted cash consists of amounts held in trust as a financial guaranty
of the Company's performance as well as funds restricted for capital
expenditures under certain debt facilities.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

     A summary of prepaid expenses and other current assets is as follows:



     Inventories consist primarily of compost materials, equipment parts and
supplies that are valued under a method that approximates the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures for major
additions and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are
charged to expense as incurred. When property is retired or otherwise disposed
of, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts
and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

     The Company revises the estimated useful lives of property and equipment
acquired through business acquisitions to conform with its policies regarding
property and equipment. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives
of the assets involved using the straight-line method. The estimated useful
lives are twenty to forty years for buildings and improvements, three to fifteen
years for trucks and equipment, and five to ten years for furniture and
fixtures.

     Landfills are stated at cost and are depleted based on consumed airspace.
Landfill improvements include direct costs incurred to obtain a landfill permit
and direct costs incurred to construct and develop the site. These costs are
depleted based on consumed airspace. All indirect landfill development costs are
expensed as incurred. (For further information, see Note 4, Landfill and Accrued
Environmental Costs.)

     The Company capitalizes interest on landfill cell construction and other
construction projects in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 34, "Capitalization of Interest Cost". Construction projects must
meet the following criteria before interest is capitalized:

     1. Total construction costs are $250,000 or greater,

     2. The construction phase is three months or longer, and

     3. The assets have a useful life of three years or longer.

     Interest is capitalized on qualified assets while they undergo activities
to ready them for their intended use. Capitalization of interest ceases once an
asset is placed into service or if construction activity is suspended for more
than a brief period of time. The interest capitalization rate is based upon the
Company's weighted average cost of indebtedness. Interest capitalized was $2.9
million, $5.6 million and $.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of property and equipment is as follows:



     The Company periodically evaluates whether events and circumstances have
occurred that may warrant revision of the estimated useful life of property and
equipment or whether the remaining balance of property and equipment should be
evaluated for possible impairment. The Company uses an estimate of the related
undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the property and equipment in
assessing their recoverability. The Company measures impairment loss as the
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the
assets.

     During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company recorded a $6.7
million pre-tax charge primarily related to the early closure of a landfill in
south Texas.

INTANGIBLE AND OTHER ASSETS

     Intangible and other assets consist primarily of the cost of acquired
businesses in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired and other
intangible assets. The cost in excess of the fair value of net assets is
amortized over forty years on a straight-line basis. Other intangible assets
include values assigned to customer lists, long-term contracts and covenants not
to compete and are amortized generally over periods ranging from 5 to 25 years.
Accumulated amortization of intangible assets was $129.9 million and $100.4
million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     The Company periodically evaluates whether events and circumstances have
occurred that may warrant revision of the estimated useful life of intangible
assets or whether the remaining balance of intangible assets should be evaluated
for possible impairment. The Company uses an estimate of the related
undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the intangible assets in
assessing their recoverability. The Company measures impairment loss as the
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the
assets.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     A summary of accrued liabilities is as follows:



OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

     A summary of other current liabilities is as follows:



REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenue consists primarily of collection fees from commercial, industrial,
residential and municipal customers and transfer and landfill disposal fees
charged to third parties. Collection, transfer and disposal, and other services
accounted for approximately 76.0%, 16.8% and 7.2%, respectively, of consolidated
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2000. Advance billings are recorded as
deferred revenue, and revenue is recognized over the period in which services
are provided. No one customer has individually accounted for more than 10.0% of
the Company's consolidated revenues in any of the past three years.

INCOME TAXES

     Effective with the Initial Public Offering in July 1998, the Company was no
longer included in the consolidated federal income tax return of AutoNation. For
the periods prior to the Initial Public Offering, all tax amounts have been
recorded as if the Company filed a separate federal tax return. The Company
accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes." Accordingly, deferred income taxes have been provided to show the
effect of temporary differences between the recognition of revenue and expenses
for financial and income tax reporting purposes and between the tax basis of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The Company has no components of other comprehensive income. Accordingly,
net income equals comprehensive income for all periods presented.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

     The Company considers all unrestricted highly liquid investments with
purchased maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The effect
of non-cash transactions related to business combinations, as


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

discussed in Note 3, Business Combinations, and other non-cash transactions are
excluded from the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

     The Company made interest payments on notes payable and long-term debt of
approximately $83.4 million, $53.7 million and $44.0 million (net of capitalized
interest of $2.9 million, $5.6 million and $.8 million) for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company made income tax
payments of approximately $89.3 million, $100.3 million and $65.4 million for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash,
receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due
to the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of the Company's
fixed rate unsecured notes using an estimate of interest rates currently
available to the Company is $617.0 million at December 31, 2000. The carrying
value of the unsecured notes is $598.8 million at December 31, 2000. The
carrying amounts of the Company's remaining notes payable and long-term debt
approximate fair value because interest rates are primarily variable and,
accordingly, approximate current market rates.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

     The Company provides services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers in the United States. Concentrations of credit risk with
respect to trade receivables are limited due to the wide variety of customers
and markets in which services are provided as well as their dispersion across
many geographic areas in the United States. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of its customers, but does not require collateral to support
customer receivables. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts
based on various factors including the credit risk of specific customers, age of
receivables outstanding, historical trends and other information.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No.
133". SFAS 137 amends FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", by deferring the
effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS
133 was further amended in June 2000 by the issuance of SFAS 138, "Accounting
for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities -- An
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133". SFAS 133, as amended, establishes
accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument
(including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be
recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its
fair value. SFAS 133, as amended, requires that changes in the derivative's fair
value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting
criteria are met. The Company adopted SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001. As of January
1, 2001, the Company did not have any instruments that met the definition of a
derivative under SFAS 133.

     In February 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a revised
Exposure Draft entitled "Business Combinations and Intangibles
Assets -- Accounting for Goodwill". This Exposure Draft, if adopted as proposed,
would eliminate the amortization of goodwill against earnings. Instead, it would
be written down against earnings only in the periods in which the recorded value
of the goodwill is more than its fair value. The FASB is expected to issue a
final statement on business combinations and intangible assets in June 2001.
During 2000, the Company amortized $36.5 million of goodwill against earnings.
Accordingly, the adoption of


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

this statement, if issued as proposed, would have a material impact on the
Company's consolidated results of operations.

     In February 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a revised
Exposure Draft on "Accounting for Obligations Associated with the Retirement of
Long-Lived Assets." This Exposure Draft, if adopted as proposed, would require
the Company to change the accounting methodology currently used to record
closure and post-closure liabilities related to landfills. The more significant
of these changes includes measuring all future obligations at fair value and
discounting future obligations to reflect today's dollars. The final statement
on this matter is expected to be effective for fiscal years beginning after June
15, 2001. The statement is also expected to require a cumulative effect approach
to recognizing transition amounts for existing asset retirement obligations. The
Company does expect the adoption of this standard, if issued as proposed, to
have a material impact on its consolidated financial position and results of
operations.

3.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     Businesses acquired and accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date
of acquisition.

     In July 1999, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with Allied
Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied") to acquire certain solid waste assets for
approximately $230.0 million in cash. In October 1999, regulatory approval
relating to the acquisition of certain of the assets was denied. The agreement
was subsequently amended for the Company to acquire one landfill operation, five
transfer stations and a subset of small container hauling assets from four
collection operations. By September 30, 2000, the Company had completed the
purchase of these assets for approximately $105.5 million in cash, $85.8 million
of which were acquired during 2000. In addition, the Company entered into a
definitive agreement with Allied for the simultaneous purchase and sale of
certain other solid waste assets. By September 30, 2000, the Company and Allied
completed the purchase and sale of these assets. Net proceeds from the cash
portion of the exchange of assets were $28.6 million. All of these transactions
have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.

     In September 1998, the Company signed an agreement with Waste Management,
Inc. ("Waste Management") to acquire assets and to enter into disposal
agreements at various Waste Management facilities. By June 1999, the Company had
completed the purchase of the assets for approximately $479.6 million in cash
plus properties, $292.7 million of which were acquired during the six months
ended June 30, 1999. The assets purchased included 16 landfills, 11 transfer
stations and 136 commercial collection routes across the United States, and were
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.

     In addition to the acquisitions from Allied and Waste Management, the
Company also acquired various other solid waste businesses during the years
ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, which were accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The aggregate purchase price the Company paid in these
transactions was $102.5 and $430.8 million in cash, respectively.

     During 2000 and 1999, $30.9 million and $328.8 million, respectively, of
the total purchase price paid for acquisitions was allocated to landfill
airspace. These allocations were based on the discounted expected future cash
flow of each landfill relative to other assets within the acquired group and
were adjusted for other non-depletable landfill assets and liabilities acquired
(primarily closure and post-closure liabilities). Landfill purchase price is
amortized using the units-of-consumption method over total available airspace,
which includes likely to be permitted airspace where appropriate.

     During the year ended 1998, AutoNation acquired various solid waste
businesses which were contributed to the Company. The aggregate purchase price
paid by AutoNation in transactions accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting was $128.3 million, consisting of $60.3 million in cash and
approximately 3.4 million shares of AutoNation common stock valued at $68.0
million. Subsequent to the Initial Public



                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Offering, the Company acquired various solid waste businesses. The aggregate
purchase price paid by the Company in transactions accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting was $450.5 million consisting of cash and certain
properties. In addition, during 1998, $81.0 million of the total purchase price
paid for acquisitions was allocated to landfill airspace.

     The following summarizes the preliminary purchase price allocations for
business combinations accounted for under the purchase method of accounting:



     The Company's unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations
assuming acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method of accounting had
occurred at the beginning of the periods presented are as follows:



     The unaudited pro forma results of operations are presented for
informational purposes only and may not necessarily reflect the future results
of operations of the Company or what the results of operations would have been
had the Company owned and operated these businesses as of the beginning of the
periods presented.

4.  LANDFILL AND ACCRUED ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

ACCRUED ENVIRONMENTAL AND LANDFILL COSTS

     A summary of accrued environmental and landfill costs is as follows:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

LIFE CYCLE ACCOUNTING

     The Company uses life cycle accounting and the units-of-consumption method
to recognize certain landfill costs. In life cycle accounting, all costs to
acquire, construct, close and maintain a site during the post-closure period are
capitalized or accrued and charged to expense based upon the consumption of
cubic yards of available airspace. Costs and airspace estimates are developed
annually by independent engineers together with the Company's engineers. These
estimates are used by the Company's operating and accounting personnel to
annually adjust the Company's rates used to expense capitalized costs and accrue
closure and post-closure costs. Changes in these estimates primarily relate to
changes in available airspace, inflation rates and applicable regulations.
Changes in available airspace include changes due to the addition of airspace
lying in expansion areas deemed likely to be permitted.

TOTAL AVAILABLE DISPOSAL CAPACITY

     As of December 31, 2000, the Company owned or operated 53 solid waste
landfills with total available disposal capacity of approximately 1.7 billion
in-place cubic yards. Total available disposal capacity represents the sum of
estimated permitted airspace plus an estimate of airspace which is likely to be
permitted.

LIKELY TO BE PERMITTED EXPANSION AIRSPACE

     Before airspace included in an expansion area is determined as likely to be
permitted and, therefore, included in the Company's calculation of total
available disposal capacity, the following criteria must be met:

     1. The land associated with the expansion airspace is either owned by the
        Company or is controlled by the Company pursuant to an option agreement;

     2. The Company is committed to supporting the expansion project financially
        and with appropriate resources;

     3. There are no identified fatal flaws or impediments associated with the
        project, including political impediments;

     4. Progress is being made on the project;

     5. The expansion is attainable within a reasonable time frame; and

     6. The Company believes it is likely the expansion permit will be received.

     Upon meeting the Company's expansion criteria, the rates used at each
applicable landfill to expense costs to acquire, construct, close and maintain a
site during the post-closure period are adjusted to include likely to be
permitted airspace and all additional costs to be capitalized or accrued
associated with the expansion airspace.

     The Company has identified three sequential steps that landfills generally
follow to obtain expansion permits. These steps are as follows:

     1. Obtaining approval from local authorities;

     2. Submitting a permit application with state authorities; and

     3. Obtaining permit approval from state authorities.

     Once a landfill meets the Company's expansion criteria, management
continuously monitors each site's progress in obtaining the expansion permit. If
at any point it is determined that an expansion area no longer meets the
required criteria, the likely to be permitted airspace is removed from the
landfill's total available capacity and the rates used at the landfill to
expense costs to acquire, construct, close and maintain a site during the
post-closure period are adjusted accordingly. The Company has never been denied
an expansion

                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

permit for a landfill that included likely to be permitted airspace in its total
available disposal capacity, although no assurances can be made that all future
expansions will be permitted as designed.

CAPITALIZED LANDFILL COSTS

     Capitalized landfill costs include expenditures for land, permitting costs,
cell construction costs and environmental structures. Capitalized permitting and
cell construction costs are limited to direct costs relating to these
activities, including legal, engineering and construction associated with
excavation, liners and site berms. Interest is capitalized on landfill
construction projects while the assets are undergoing activities to ready them
for their intended use.

     Costs related to acquiring land, excluding the estimated residual value of
unpermitted land, and costs related to permitting and cell construction are
depleted as airspace is consumed using the units-of-consumption method.
Environmental structures, which include leachate collection systems, methane
collection systems and groundwater monitoring wells, are charged to expense over
the shorter of their useful life or the life of the landfill.

     Capitalized landfill costs may also include an allocation of purchase price
paid for landfills. For landfills purchased as part of a group of several
assets, the purchase price assigned to the landfill is determined based upon the
discounted expected future cash flows of the landfill relative to the other
assets within the acquired group. If the landfill meets the Company's expansion
criteria, the purchase price is further allocated between permitted airspace and
expansion airspace based upon the ratio of permitted versus likely to be
permitted airspace to total available airspace. Landfill purchase price is
amortized using the units-of-consumption method over the total available
airspace including likely to be permitted airspace where appropriate.

CLOSURE AND POST-CLOSURE COSTS

     Landfill site closure and post-closure costs include estimated costs to be
incurred for final closure of the landfills and estimated costs for providing
required post-closure monitoring and maintenance of landfills. These costs are
accrued and charged to cost of operations based upon consumed airspace in
relation to total available disposal capacity using the units-of-consumption
method of amortization. The Company estimates future cost requirements for
closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance for its solid waste
facilities based on the technical standards of the Environmental Protection
Agency's Subtitle D regulations and applicable state and local regulations.
These estimates do not take into account discounts for the present value of
total estimated costs. Accruals for closure and post-closure costs totaled
approximately $23.4 million, $17.9 million and $11.4 million during the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     A number of the Company's landfills were previously operated by other
entities. Accordingly, the Company assessed and recorded a closure and
post-closure liability as of the date the landfill was acquired based upon the
estimated total closure and post-closure costs and the percentage of total
available disposal capacity utilized as of such date. Thereafter, the difference
between the closure and post-closure costs accrued and the total estimated
closure and post-closure costs to be incurred are accrued and charged to expense
as airspace is consumed. Estimated aggregate closure and post-closure costs will
be fully accrued for the Company's landfills at the time such facilities cease
to accept waste and are closed. As of December 31, 2000, assuming that all
available landfill capacity is used, the Company expects to expense
approximately $534.6 million of such costs over the remaining lives of these
facilities.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The expected future payments for closure and post-closure costs as of
December 31, 2000 are as follows:



ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

     In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to ongoing
environmental investigations by certain regulatory agencies, as well as other
claims and disputes that could result in litigation. Environmental costs are
accrued by the Company through a charge to income in the period such liabilities
become probable and can be reasonably estimated. No material amounts were
charged to expense during the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

5.  NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT

     Notes payable and long-term debt are as follows:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Aggregate maturities of notes payable and long-term debt as of December 31,
2000 are as follows:



     As of December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately $422.0 million of
availability under the short-term portion of the credit facility.

     As of December 31, 2000, the Company had $84.3 million of restricted cash
of which $58.8 million were proceeds from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds and
will be used to fund capital expenditures under the terms of the bonds.

     The unsecured revolving credit facility requires the Company to maintain
certain financial ratios and comply with certain financial covenants. At
December 31, 2000, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants
under these agreements.

6.  INCOME TAXES

     The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:



     A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate is shown below:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Components of the net deferred income tax liability in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows:



     In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The Company adjusts the valuation allowance in the
period management determines it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets
will or will not be realized.

7.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     In April 1998, the Company declared a $2.0 billion dividend to AutoNation
that it paid in the form of notes payable ("Company Notes"). Interest expense on
the Company Notes was $27.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

     In June 1998, the Company received a dividend of certain assets from a
former subsidiary totaling approximately $437.3 million. In June 1998, the
Company prepaid a portion of the amounts outstanding under the Company Notes
totaling $565.4 million using this dividend, cash and certain other assets.

     In July 1998, the Company amended and restated its Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize capital stock consisting of (a) 50,000,000 shares of
preferred stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), and (b)
750,000,000 shares of Common Stock of which 250,000,000 shares were authorized
as Class A Common Stock, 125,000,000 shares were authorized as Class B Common
Stock and 375,000,000 shares may be designated by the Company's Board of
Directors as either Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. In addition,
all 100 shares of common stock previously held by AutoNation were converted into
95.7 million shares of Class B Common Stock. The Class A Common Stock and Class
B Common Stock were identical in all respects, except holders of Class A Common
Stock were entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B Common Stock
were entitled to five votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of the
stockholders, including the election of directors.

     In July 1998, the Company repaid amounts due to AutoNation totaling $395.4
million through the issuance of approximately 16.5 million shares of Class A
Common Stock.

     In July 1998, the Company completed the Initial Public Offering of
approximately 63.2 million shares of its Class A Common Stock resulting in net
proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion. All of the proceeds from the Initial
Public Offering were used to repay remaining amounts due under the Company
Notes.

     In March 1999, AutoNation converted all 95.7 million shares of its Class B
Common Stock into Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis. In May 1999, the
Company completed a secondary offering, in which AutoNation sold substantially
all of the Class A Common Stock it owned in the Company. In June 1999, the
Company amended its Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the
classifications of Common Stock.

     In July 2000, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized
the repurchase of up to $50.0 million of its Common Stock. In October 2000, the
Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
an additional $100.0 million of its Common Stock. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company paid $50.9 million to repurchase 3.6 million shares of its Common Stock.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

8.  STOCK OPTIONS

     In July 1998, the Company adopted the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan ("Stock
Incentive Plan") to provide for grants of options to purchase shares of Common
Stock to employees, non-employee directors and independent contractors of the
Company who are eligible to participate in the Stock Incentive Plan. Options
granted under the Stock Incentive Plan are non-qualified and are granted at a
price equal to the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock at the date
of grant. Generally, options granted have a term of ten years from the date of
grant, and vest in increments of 25% per year over a four year period on the
yearly anniversary date of the grant. Options granted to non-employee directors
have a term of ten years and vest immediately at the date of grant. The Company
has reserved 20.0 million shares of Common Stock for issuance pursuant to
options granted under the Stock Incentive Plan. As of December 31, 2000, there
were 5.8 million stock options reserved for future grants under the Stock
Incentive Plan.

     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, employees of the Company were granted
stock options under AutoNation stock option plans. As of March 2, 1999, options
to purchase approximately 8.0 million shares of AutoNation common stock held by
the Company's employees were canceled by AutoNation, and the Company's
Compensation Committee granted replacement options on a one-for-one basis
("Replacement Options"). The Replacement Options to purchase shares of Common
Stock retained the vesting and exercise rights of the original options, subject
to certain exercise limitations for individuals who signed stock option
repricing agreements with AutoNation. The exercise prices for individual
Replacement Options were established to maintain the unrealized gain or loss on
each option for AutoNation stock that was cancelled. Compensation expense
related to the granting of certain Replacement Options at exercise prices below
the fair market value of the Common Stock at the date of grant was approximately
$2.0 million and has been included in selling, general and administrative
expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year
ended December 31, 1999.

     The following table summarizes stock option activity from the Initial
Public Offering through December 31, 2000:




                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes information about the Company's outstanding
and exercisable stock options at December 31, 2000:



     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees", in accounting for stock-based employee
compensation arrangements whereby no compensation cost related to stock options
is deducted in determining net income. Had compensation cost for stock option
grants under the Company's Stock Incentive Plan been determined pursuant to SFAS
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", the Company's net income
would have decreased accordingly. Using the Black-Scholes option pricing model,
the Company's pro forma net income and pro forma weighted average fair value of
options granted, with related assumptions, assuming the Replacement Options were
outstanding during the periods presented, are as follows:



9.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings
per share is based on the combined weighted average number of common shares and
common share equivalents outstanding which include, where appropriate, the
assumed exercise of employee stock options. In computing diluted earnings per
share, the Company utilizes the treasury stock method.

     Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 1998 includes the
retroactive effect of the recapitalization of the 100 shares of Common Stock
held by AutoNation into 95.7 million shares of Common Stock.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Earnings per share is calculated as follows:



10.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a party to various general legal proceedings which have
arisen in the ordinary course of business. While the results of these matters
cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that losses, if any,
resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. However, unfavorable resolution could affect the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows for the
quarterly periods in which they are resolved.

     In September 1999, several lawsuits were filed by certain shareholders
against the Company and certain of its officers and directors in the United
States Court for the Southern District of Florida. The plaintiffs in these
lawsuits claim, on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of the Company's
Common Stock between January 28, 1999 and August 28, 1999, that the defendants
violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by,
among other things, allegedly making materially false and misleading statements
regarding the Company's growth and the assets acquired from Waste Management. In
December 1999, the Court consolidated these lawsuits and the consolidated action
has been named In Re: Republic Services, Inc. Securities Litigation. The
plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint in February 2000 and the defendants
filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint in April 2000. In February
2001, the Court granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated
complaint. In that order, the Court granted plaintiffs leave to file an amended
complaint by March 7, 2001. Management believes the allegations contained in the
consolidated complaint are without merit and will vigorously defend this and any
related actions. However, an unfavorable resolution of this lawsuit could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, result
of operations or cash flows in one or more future periods.

LEASE COMMITMENTS

     During December 1999, the Company entered into a $100.0 million operating
lease facility established to finance the acquisition of operating equipment
(primarily revenue-producing vehicles). At December 31, 2000, $89.4 million was
outstanding under the lease facility. In addition, the Company and its
subsidiaries lease real property, equipment and software under various other
operating leases with terms from one to twenty-five years. Rent expense during
the year ended December 31, 2000 was approximately $25.3 million.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Future minimum lease obligations under non-cancelable real property,
equipment and software leases with initial terms in excess of one year at
December 31, 2000 are as follows:



LIABILITY INSURANCE

     The Company carries general liability, vehicle liability, employment
practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability,
worker's compensation and employer's liability coverage, as well as umbrella
liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits
contained in these primary policies. The Company also carries property
insurance.

     The Company's insurance programs for worker's compensation, general
liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are
effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully
insured. Accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but
not reported.

     The Company's liabilities for unpaid and incurred but not reported claims
at December 31, 2000 was $41.1 million under its current risk management program
and are included in other current and other liabilities in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. While the ultimate amount of claims incurred are
dependent on future developments, in management's opinion, recorded reserves are
adequate to cover the future payment of claims. However, it is reasonably
possible that recorded reserves may not be adequate to cover the future payment
of claims. Adjustments, if any, to estimates recorded resulting from ultimate
claim payments will be reflected in results of operations in the periods in
which such adjustments are known.

OTHER MATTERS

     In the normal course of business, the Company is required to post
performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit and/or cash deposits as
a financial guarantee of the Company's performance. To date, the Company has
satisfied financial responsibility requirements for regulatory agencies by
making cash deposits, obtaining bank letters of credit or by obtaining surety
bonds. At December 31, 2000, surety bonds and letters of credit totaling $741.7
million were outstanding, which expire through 2007.

     The Company's business activities are conducted in the context of a
developing and changing statutory and regulatory framework. Governmental
regulation of the waste management industry requires the Company to obtain and
retain numerous governmental permits to conduct various aspects of its
operations. These permits are subject to revocation, modification or denial. The
costs and other capital expenditures which may be required to obtain or retain
the applicable permits or comply with applicable regulations could be
significant. Any revocation, modification or denial of permits could have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

     Through the date of the Company's Initial Public Offering in July 1998, the
Company filed consolidated federal income tax returns with AutoNation. The
Internal Revenue Service is auditing AutoNation's consolidated tax returns for
fiscal years 1995 and 1996. In accordance with the Company's tax sharing
agreement with AutoNation, the Company may be liable for certain assessments
imposed by the Internal


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Revenue Service resulting from this audit. Management believes that the tax
liabilities recorded are adequate. However, a significant assessment in excess
of liabilities recorded against the Company could have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

11.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The following is an analysis of activity in the due to AutoNation account:



     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, due to AutoNation included
allocations of various expenses from AutoNation including general and
administrative expenses, risk management premiums, income taxes and other costs.
Such liabilities were non-interest bearing and had no specified repayment terms.
In July 1998, the Company repaid in full amounts due to AutoNation as of June
30, 1998 through the issuance of approximately 5.8 million shares of Common
Stock. Subsequent to the Initial Public Offering, due to AutoNation consists
primarily of charges under the Services Agreement described below. Such amounts
were non-interest bearing and were repaid periodically using cash.

     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, AutoNation's corporate general and
administrative costs not specifically attributable to its operating subsidiaries
were allocated to the Company based upon the ratio of the Company's invested
capital to AutoNation's consolidated invested capital. Such allocations are
included in the Company's selling, general and administrative costs and were
approximately $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. This amount
approximates management's estimate of AutoNation's corporate general and
administrative costs required to support the Company's operations. Management
believes that the amounts allocated to the Company were reasonable and were no
less favorable to the Company than the expenses the Company would have incurred
to obtain such services on its own or from unaffiliated third parties.

     In June 1998, the Company and AutoNation entered into a services agreement
(the "Services Agreement") pursuant to which AutoNation provided to the Company
certain accounting, auditing, cash management, corporate communications,
corporate development, financial and treasury, human resources and benefit plan
administration, insurance and risk management, legal, purchasing and tax
services. The Services Agreement expired June 30, 1999. In exchange for the
provision of such services, fees were payable by the Company to AutoNation in
the amount of $1.25 million per month. Effective January 1, 1999, such fees
payable by the Company to AutoNation were reduced to $.9 million per month. The
Company believes that the fees for services provided under the Services
Agreement were no less favorable to the Company than could be obtained by the
Company internally or from unaffiliated third parties. Charges under the
Services Agreement for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 were $5.3
million and $7.5 million, respectively, and are included in selling, general and
administrative expenses.


                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Prior to the Initial Public Offering, the Company participated in
AutoNation's combined risk management programs for property, casualty and
general liability insurance. The Company was charged an annual premium of $9.7
million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

     Notes payable to a former subsidiary represent borrowings prior to the
Initial Public Offering under revolving credit facilities to fund the Company's
operations and to repay debt assumed in acquisitions. Borrowings under these
facilities bore interest at prime plus 50 basis points and were payable on
demand. In July 1998, the Company repaid these notes through the issuance of
approximately 10.7 million shares of Common Stock. Interest expense on these
notes was $9.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

12.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     The following is an analysis of certain items in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations by quarter for 2000 and 1999:



     The Company's operating results for 2000 were affected by a $6.7 million
non-recurring charge that was recorded during the third quarter. This charge
related primarily to the early closure of a landfill in south Texas.

     The Company's operating results for 1999 were affected by a $6.9 million
non-recurring charge related to the Company's separation from AutoNation. This
charge was recorded during the first, third and fourth quarters in the amounts
of $4.0 million, $2.4 million and $.5 million, respectively. The Company also
recorded a $2.9 million loss on the sale of its collection and disposal business
in Costa Rica during the fourth quarter of 1999.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.



                                    PART III

     The information required by Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Part III of Form
10-K will be set forth in the Proxy Statement of the Company relating to the
2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated by reference herein.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Exhibits:







- ---------------

* filed herewith

     (b) Financial Statement Schedule. The following financial statement
schedule is filed on page 65 herewith:

     Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
Reserves, for each of the Three Years Ended December 31, 2000.

     Schedules not listed above have been omitted because the information
required to be set forth therein is not applicable or is shown in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

     (c) Reports on Form 8-K:

     Form 8-K, filed and dated October 25, 2000, including a press release
announcing the Company's operating results for the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2000, and a press release announcing the board of directors'
approval of an additional $100.0 million for the Company's Common Stock
repurchase program.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          REGISTRANT:

                                          REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                                          By:     /s/ H. WAYNE HUIZENGA
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     H. Wayne Huizenga
                                                   Chairman of the Board

February 21, 2001

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                            REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.

                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                  SCHEDULE II
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



- ---------------

(1) Allowance of acquired businesses.


