
10-K405
FORM 10-K





                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                             ----------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT

                                  -------------

(Mark One)
  X  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
- ---- ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000
                          ---------------

      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
- ----  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
         For the transition period from                to
                                        --------------    ----------------

                             COMMISSION FILE 1-5224

                                THE STANLEY WORKS
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

              CONNECTICUT                           06-0548860
  (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
   INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)              IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)

          1000 STANLEY DRIVE
       NEW BRITAIN, CONNECTICUT                       06053
(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)            (ZIP CODE)

                                 (860) 225-5111
                         (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER)
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                            NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
        TITLE OF EACH CLASS                  ON WHICH REGISTERED
        -------------------                  -------------------

 Common Stock--Par Value $2.50 Per Share   New York Stock Exchange
                                           Pacific Exchange

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                   Yes    X                No
                       --------               ----------

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [x].

  The aggregate market value of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, held by
non-affiliates (based upon the closing sale price on the New York Stock
Exchange) on March 28, 2000 was approximately $2.2 billion. As of March 28,
2000, there were 87,488,834 shares of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share,
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended January 1,2000
are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated March 14, 2000, filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, are incorporated by reference into Part
III.






                                    FORM 10-K
                                    ---------

                                     Part I

    Item 1.   Business
    ------------------

    1(a) General Development of Business. (i) General. The Stanley Works
("Stanley" or the "Company") was founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and
incorporated in 1852. Stanley is a worldwide producer of tools and door products
for professional, industrial and consumer use. Stanley (Registered Trademark)
is a brand recognized around the world for quality and value.

        In 1999, Stanley had net sales of $2.8 billion and employed
approximately 16,300 people worldwide. The Company's principal executive office
is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its
telephone number is (860) 225-5111.

        (ii) Restructuring Activities/PlayBook 2000. In 1999, the Company
completed most of the restructuring initiatives announced in 1997. The 1997 plan
called for spending $340 million (approximately $240 million of restructuring
charges recorded in 1997 and $101 million of transition costs from 1997 to 1999)
to generate annual savings of $145 million, all of which was to be reinvested in
growth initiatives. To date the Company has closed 50 facilities and reduced net
employment by approximately 2,700 people to deliver annual benefits as
anticipated, however, these were largely offset by operational problems.

         Reserves for restructuring activities as of the beginning of 1999 were
$154 million, of which $73 million related to severance, $44 million related to
asset write-downs, and $37 million related to environmental remediation and
other exit costs. In 1999, severance of $44 million, asset write-downs of $13
million, and payments for other exit costs of $17 million reduced these reserves
to $80 million. In the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company completed an
evaluation of these remaining reserves and determined that certain projects
would be cancelled. Accordingly, the Company reversed $62 million of reserves
established for such actions. Net reserves of $18 million, $12 million for
severance, $2 million for asset write-downs and $4 million for environmental and
other exit costs, will be utilized for costs generated from projects initiated,
however, not completed as of the end of 1999.

         Also in the fourth quarter, new projects were approved as part of the
PlayBook 2000 initiative, including eight facility closures and the related
relocation of production, a reduction in workforce in administrative and sales
functions and the outsourcing of non-core activities as well as the asset
impairments related to those initiatives. These actions are expected to result
in a net employment reduction of approximately



                                     - 1 -






1,000 people.

         The Company recorded restructuring charges related to these new
initiatives of $40 million ($32 million related to severance and other exit
costs, and $8 million related to asset write-downs).

         1(b) Financial Information About Segments. Financial information
regarding the Company's business segments is incorporated herein by reference
from pages 32 and 36 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareowners for the year
ended January 1, 2000.

         1(c) Narrative Description of Business. The Company's operations are
classified into two business segments: Tools and Doors.

     Tools. The Tools segment manufactures and markets carpenters, mechanics,
pneumatic and hydraulic tools as well as tool sets. These products are
distributed directly to retailers (including, home centers, mass merchants and
retail lumber yards) and end users as well as through third party distributors.
Carpenters tools include hand tools such as measuring instruments, planes,
hammers, knives and blades, screwdrivers, saws, garden tools, chisels, boring
tools, masonry, tile and drywall tools, as well as electronic stud sensors,
levels, alignment tools and elevation measuring systems. The Company markets its
carpenters tools under the Stanley (Registered Trademark), FatMax (Trademark),
MaxGrip (Trademark), Powerlock (Registered Trademark), IntelliTools (Trademark),
Contractor Grade (Trademark), Dynagrip (Registered Trademark) and Goldblatt
(Registered Trademark) brands.

     Mechanics tools include consumer, industrial and professional mechanics
hand tools, including, wrenches, sockets, electronic diagnostic tools, tool
boxes and high-density industrial storage and retrieval systems. Mechanics
tools are marketed under the Stanley (Registered Trademark), Proto (Registered
Trademark), Mac Tools (Registered Trademark), Husky (Registered Trademark),
Jensen (Registered Trademark), Vidmar (Registered Trademark), ZAG (Registered
Trademark) and Blackhawk (Trademark) brands.

     Pneumatic tools include BOSTITCH (Registered Trademark) fastening tools
and fasteners (nails and staples) used for construction, remodeling, furniture
making, pallet manufacturing and consumer use and pneumatic air tools (these
are high performance, precision assembly tools, controllers and systems for
tightening threaded fasteners used chiefly by vehicle manufacturers).

     Hydraulic tools include Stanley (Registered Trademark) hand-held hydraulic
tools used by contractors, utilities, railroads and public works as well as
LaBounty (Registered Trademark) mounted demolition hammers and compactors
designed to work on skid steer loaders, mini-excavators, backhoes and large
excavators.

         Doors. The Doors segment manufactures and markets




                                     - 2 -







commercial and residential doors, both automatic and manual, as well as closet
doors and systems, home decor and door and consumer hardware. Products in the
Doors segment include, residential insulated steel, reinforced fiberglass and
wood entrance door systems, vinyl patio doors, mirrored closet doors and closet
organizing systems, automatic doors as well as related door hardware products
ranging from hinges, hasps, bolts and latches to shelf brackets. Door products
are marketed under the Stanley (Registered Trademark), Magic-Door (Registered
Trademark), Welcome Watch (Trademark), Stanley-Acmetrack (Trademark), Monarch
(Registered Trademark) and Acme (Registered Trademark) brands and are sold
directly to end users and retailers as well as through third party
distributors.

     Competition. The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for
product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service and
strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines and its
emphasis on product innovation.

     The Company encounters active competition in all of its businesses from
both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and
services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. The
Company has a large number of competitors, however, aside from a small number
of competitors in the consumer hand tool and consumer hardware business who
produce a range of products somewhat comparable to the Company's, the majority
of its competitors compete only with respect to one or more individual products
within a particular line. The Company believes that it is the largest
manufacturer of hand tools in the world featuring a broader line than any other
toolmaker. The Company also believes that it is the leader in the manufacture
and sale of pneumatic fastening tools and related fasteners to the
construction, furniture and pallet industries as well as the leading
manufacturer of hand-held hydraulic tools used for heavy construction,
railroads, utilities and public works. In the Doors segment, the Company
believes that it is a U.S. leader in the manufacture and sale of insulated
steel residential entrance doors, commercial hardware products, mirrored closet
doors and hardware for sliding, folding and pocket doors and the U.S. leader in
the manufacture, sale and installation of power operated sliding doors.

     Customers. A substantial portion of the Company's products are sold
through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the U.S. In
1999, approximately 15% of the Company's consolidated sales in both the Tools
and Doors segments were to Home Depot. Because a consolidation of retailers
in the home center and mass merchant distribution channel is occurring, these
customers constitute a growing percent of the Company's sales and are important
to the Company's operating results. While this consolidation and the domestic
and international expansion of these large retailers provide the Company with
opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual




                                     - 3 -





customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential volume loss. The
loss of Home Depot as well as certain of the other larger home centers as
customers would have a material adverse effect on each of the Company's business
segments until either such customers are replaced or the Company makes the
necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business.

         Despite the trend toward customer consolidation, the Company has a
diversified customer base and is seeking to broaden its customer base further in
each business segment by identifying and seeking new channels and customers that
it does not currently serve.

         Raw Materials. The Company's products are manufactured of steel and
other metals, wood and plastic. The raw materials required are available from a
number of sources at competitive prices and the Company has multi-year contracts
with many of its key suppliers. The Company has experienced no difficulties in
obtaining supplies in recent periods.

         Backlog. At February 5, 2000, the Company had $149 million in unfilled
orders compared with approximately $141 million in unfilled orders at February
6, 1999. All these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the
current fiscal year. Most customers place orders for immediate shipment and as
a result, the Company produces primarily for inventory, rather than to fill
specific orders.

         Patents and Trademarks. Neither business segment is dependent, to any
significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions and the loss
of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material
adverse effect on either business segment. The Company owns numerous patents,
none of which are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These patents
expire from time to time over the next 17 years. The Company holds licenses,
franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate is
material to the Company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and
concessions vary in duration from one to 17 years.

         The Company has numerous trademarks that are utilized in its businesses
worldwide. The STANLEY (Registered Trademark) and STANLEY (in a notched
rectangle) (Registered Trademark) trademarks are material to both business
segments.

                                     - 4 -




These well-known trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value
and are among the world's most trusted brand names. The Company's tagline,
"Make Something Great(Trademark)" is the centerpiece of the Company's brand
strategy for both segments. In the Tools segment, the Bostitch (Registered
Trademark), Powerlock (Registered Trademark), Tape Rule Case Design
(Powerlock) (Registered Trademark), LaBounty (Registered Trademark), Mac
Tools (Registered Trademark), Proto (Registered Trademark), Jensen (Registered
Trademark), Goldblatt (Registered Trademark) and Vidmar (Registered Trademark)
trademarks are also material to the business.

         Environmental Regulations. The Company is subject to various
environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it
has operations. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly
stringent and will likely increase the Company's expenditures related to
environmental matters.

         The Company is a party to a number of proceedings before federal and
state regulatory agencies relating to environmental remediation. Additionally,
the Company, along with many other parties, has been named as a potentially
responsible party ("PRP") in a number of administrative or judicial proceedings
for the remediation of various waste sites, including 11 Superfund sites.
Current laws potentially impose joint and several liability upon each PRP. In
assessing its potential liability at these sites, the Company has considered the
following: the solvency of the other PRP's, whether responsibility is being
disputed, the terms of existing agreements, experience at similar sites, and the
fact that its volumetric contribution at these sites is relatively small.

         The Company's policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and
remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The amount of
liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with
respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing
technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in
remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into
account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As
assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded
are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal
information that becomes available. As of January 1, 2000, the Company had
reserves of approximately $18.3 million, primarily for remediation activities
associated with company-owned properties as well as for Superfund sites.

         The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on
estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect
additional technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs
to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent
uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures. Subject to



                                     - 5 -




the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company does
not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with environmental
matters in excess of the amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect
on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

         Power-generating Subsidiary. Under the General Statutes of Connecticut,
the Company is deemed to be a "holding company" that controls an electric
company as a result of its being the sole shareholder of Farmington River Power
Co., a power-generating subsidiary of the Company since 1916. Under such
statute, no organization or person may take any action to acquire control of
such a holding company without the prior approval of the Connecticut Department
of Public Utility Control.

         Employees. At January 1, 2000, the Company had approximately 16,300
employees, approximately 9,950 of whom were employed in the U.S. Of these U.S.
employees, approximately 12.6% are covered by collective bargaining agreements
with approximately 7 labor unions. The majority of the Company's hourly- and
weekly-paid employees outside the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. The Company's labor agreements in the U.S. expire in 2000, 2001 and
2002. There have been no significant interruptions or curtailments of the
Company's operations in recent years due to labor disputes. The Company believes
that its relationship with its employees is good.

         Cautionary Statements. The statements contained in the Annual Report to
Shareowners (incorporated by reference in this document) regarding the Company's
ability (i) to become a Great Brand and deliver sustained, profitable growth
(e.g., sales growth at twice the industry rate, earnings growth in the low- to
mid- teens, operating cash flow approximately equal to net earnings and
dividends increasing by at least one-half the Company's earnings growth), (ii)
to lower the overall cost structure to become more competitive (including
sourcing 26% of product cost from low-cost countries in 2000), (iii) to obtain
sales growth from the implementation of sales and marketing programs, (iv) to
drive working capital efficiency and continue to generate cash and (v) to avoid
future special charges at the level incurred in 1999 in the Mechanics Tools
business are forward looking and inherently subject to risk and uncertainty.

The Company's ability to lower its overall cost structure is dependent on the
success of various initiatives to improve manufacturing operations, to implement
related cost control systems and to source from and manufacture a higher
proportion of the Company's products in low-cost countries. The success of these
initiatives is dependent on the Company's ability to increase the efficiency of
its routine business processes, to develop and implement process control
systems, to develop and

                                     - 6 -



execute comprehensive plans for facility consolidations, the availability and
effectiveness of vendors to perform outsourced functions, the availability of
low cost raw materials of suitable quality from foreign countries, the
successful recruitment and training of new employees, the resolution of any
labor issues related to closing facilities, the need to respond to significant
changes in product demand while any facility consolidation is in process and
other unforeseen events. In addition, the Company's ability to leverage the
benefits of gross margin improvements is dependent upon maintaining selling,
general and administrative expense at 1999 levels (excluding fourth quarter
1999 special charges). The Company's ability to maintain the level of selling,
general and administrative expenses is dependent upon various process
improvement activities, the successful implementation of changes to the sales
organization and the reduction of transaction costs.

The Company's ability to achieve sales growth is dependent upon a number of
factors, including: (i) the ability to recruit and retain a sales force
comprised of employees and manufacturers reps, (ii) the success of the Company's
sales and marketing programs to increase retail sell through and stimulate
demand for the Company's products, (iii) the ability of the sales force to adapt
to changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer
coverage, (iv) the ability of the company to fulfill increased demand for its
products, (v) the absence of pricing pressures from customers and competitors
and the ability to defend market share in the face of price competition, (vi)
the ability to improve the cost structure in order to fund new product and brand
development and (vii) the acceptance of the Company's new products in the
marketplace as well as the ability to satisfy demand for these products.

The Company's ability to drive working capital efficiency and continue to
generate cash is dependent on the continued success of improvements in processes
to manage inventory and receivable levels.

The Company's ability to avoid future special charges related to its Mechanics
Tools business at the level incurred in 1999 is dependent upon the success of
the operating mechanisms and systems being implemented to provide the necessary
controls over and visibility to the business.

The Company's ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be
affected by external factors. These external factors include pricing pressure
and other changes within competitive markets, the continued consolidation of
customers in consumer channels, increasing competition, changes in trade,
monetary and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange
fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange rates on the
competitiveness of products and


                                     - 7 -




recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the
company operates.

         1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas. Geographic area
information on page 36 of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended
January 1, 2000 is incorporated herein by reference.

In addition, approximately 17% of the Company's long-lived assets are related to
its Israeli operations.

         Item 2. Properties.
         ------------------

         As of January 1, 2000, Registrant and its subsidiaries owned or leased
facilities for manufacturing, distribution and sales offices in 30 states and 31
foreign countries. The Registrant believes that its facilities are suitable and
adequate for its business.

         A summary of material locations (over 50,000 square feet) that are
owned by the Registrant and its subsidiaries are:

         Tools
         -----

         Phoenix, Arizona; Visalia, California; Clinton and New Britain,
Connecticut; Shelbyville, Indiana; Two Harbors, Minnesota; Hamlet, North
Carolina; Columbus, Georgetown and Sabina, Ohio; Allentown, Pennsylvania; East
Greenwich, Rhode Island; Cheraw, South Carolina; Shelbyville, Tennessee; Dallas
and Wichita Falls, Texas; Pittsfield and Shaftsbury, Vermont; Ingleburn,
Australia; Smiths Falls, Canada; Pecky, Czech Republic; Ecclesfield, Hellaby,
Manchester and Sheffield, England; Besancon Cedex, France; Wieseth, Germany;
Chihuahua and Puebla, Mexico; Wroclaw, Poland; Taichung Hsien, Taiwan; and
Amphur Bangpakong, Thailand.

         Doors
         -----

         Chatsworth and San Dimas, California; Farmington and New Britain,
Connecticut; Richmond, Virginia; Brampton, Canada; Sheffield, England;
Marquette, France and Zhongshan City, Peoples Republic of China.

         A summary of material locations (over 50,000 square feet) that are
leased by the Registrant and its subsidiaries are:

         Tools
         -----

         Miami, Florida; Covington, Georgia; Kannapolis, North Carolina;
Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio; Milwaukie, Oregon; Carrollton, Texas; Burlington
and Smith Falls Canada; and Worsley and Northampton, England; Biassono, Italy;
Heidelberg West,


                                     - 8 -





Australia and Izraelim, Israel.

         Doors
         -----

         Tupelo, Mississippi; Charlotte and Kannapolis, North Carolina;
Winchester, Virginia; and Langley and Oakville, Canada.

         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.
         --------------------------

         In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in various
lawsuits, claims, including product liability and distributor claims, and
administrative proceedings. The Company does not expect that the resolution of
these matters will have a materially adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

         The Company has recently discovered potential violations of the East
Greenwich, Rhode Island facility's air emissions permit. In the past, the
facility by-passed air emissions control equipment when such equipment
periodically malfunctioned. This practice may constitute a violation of the air
permit. On November 23, 1999, the Company voluntarily reported the potential
violations to the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management ("RIDEM")
pursuant to the Rhode Island Environmental Compliance Incentive Act (the "Act").
Under circumstances specified in the Act, a party that voluntarily reports
violations may receive immunity from penalties (except for economic gain) for
violations discovered during voluntary audits or during environmental compliance
programs. RIDEM has not responded to the Company's disclosure. The Company
cannot predict at this time whether RIDEM will find that the voluntary
disclosure meets the requirements for immunity under the Act. If the Company
does not receive immunity under the Act, significant penalties could be imposed.
The Company cannot predict at this time the amount of such penalties. In either
case, the Company could be subject to penalties to off-set any economic gain
realized by the Company from the non-compliance.

         The Company's New Britain, Connecticut Hardware facility is the subject
of the ongoing threatened enforcement action by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (the "US EPA") in connection with waste materials sent to a
disposal site in Canada. The waste materials were analyzed at the disposal site
and apparently contain PCBs. The Company was not aware the waste materials
contained PCBs. The export of PCB-containing wastes to Canada is prohibited by
the federal Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"). TSCA also prohibits the
import of PCB-containing wastes to the United States from Canada. The waste
materials are being held at the disposal site in Canada pending a review by the
US EPA and the Canadian environmental authorities.

                                     - 9 -




         The Company expects that the authorities will allow the Company to
retrieve the waste materials for proper disposal in the United States. The
Company also expects that the US EPA will impose a penalty on the Company. TSCA
provides for civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day for violations. The
Company does not expect that it will receive the maximum penalty for the
unintentional violations but it cannot at this time, predict with certainty the
amount of the penalty that will be imposed. Any penalty that is imposed is not
expected to have a materially adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.


         Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
         ------------------------------------------------------------

         No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the Registrant's
last fiscal year to a vote of security holders.

         Executive Officers. The following is a list of the executive officers
of the Registrant as of January 1, 2000:



Executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Unless
otherwise indicated, each officer has had the same position with the Registrant
for five years.



                                     Part II


         Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
Stockholder Matters. Registrant incorporates by reference the line item
"Shareowners of record at end of year" from pages 26 and 27 and the material
captioned "Investor and Shareowner Information" on page 53 of its Annual Report
to Shareowners for the year ended January 1, 2000.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
- ---------------------------------------

(A) During the fourth fiscal quarter of 1999, no shares were issued to certain
participants in the Company's German Savings Related Share Plan (the "German
Savings Plan") and 3,988 shares were issued under the Company's U.K. Savings
Related Share Plans (the "U.K. Savings Plan" and, collectively with the German
Savings Plan, the "Savings Plans"). Under the Saving Plans, shares are issued to
employees who elect at the end of the five year savings period or upon
termination of employment to receive the accumulated savings in the form of
shares of the Company's stock rather than cash.

(B) Participation in the Savings Plans are offered to all employees of the
Company's subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Germany.

(C) The total dollar value of the shares issued during the quarter was
$73,682.63.

         Under the U.K. Savings Plan:

                                     - 12 -





         638 shares were issued at $15.5334 per share with an aggregate value of
$9,910.31
         2,260 shares were issued at $15.8834 per share with an aggregate value
of $35,896.48
         883 shares were issued at $24.15 per share with an aggregate value of
$21,324.45
         171 shares were issued at $33.1333 per share with an aggregate value of
$5,665.79
         36 shares were issued at $24.60 per share with an aggregate value of
$885.60

(D) Neither the options nor the underlying shares have been registered in
reliance on an exemption from registration found in several no-action letters
issued by the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Registration is not required because the Company is a reporting
company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, its shares are actively
traded, the number of shares issuable under the Savings Plans is small relative
to the number of shares outstanding, all eligible employees are entitled to
participate, the shares are being issued in connection with the employees'
compensation, not in lieu of it and there is no negotiation between the Company
and the employee regarding the grant.

(E) Under the Savings Plans, employees are given the right to buy a specified
number of shares with the proceeds of a "Save-as-You-Earn" savings contract.
Under the savings contract, the employee authorizes 60 monthly deductions from
his or her paycheck At the end of the five year period, the employee may elect
to (i) use all or a part of the accumulated savings to buy all or some of the
shares under the employee's options, (ii) leave the accumulated savings with the
financial institution that has custody of the funds for an additional two years
or (iii) take a cash distribution of the accumulated savings. The option to
purchase shares will lapse at the end of the five year period if not exercised
at that time.

         Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Registrant incorporates by reference
pages 26 and 27 of its Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended January
1, 2000.

         Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations. Registrant incorporates by reference pages 30 through 35
of its Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended January 1, 2000.

         Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Registrant incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk" on
pages 33-34 and Footnote I on page 44 of its Annual Report to Shareowners
for the year ended January 1, 2000.

                                     - 13 -



         Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The consolidated
financial statements and report of independent auditors included on pages 37 to
51 and page 29, respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year
ended January 1, 2000 are incorporated herein by reference.

         Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure. None.

                                    Part III


         Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
Information regarding the Company's Executive Officers appears in the "Executive
Officers" section at the end of Part I of this report. In addition, the
Registrant incorporates by reference pages 1 through 4 of its definitive Proxy
Statement, dated March 14, 2000.

         Item 11. Executive Compensation. Registrant incorporates by reference
the paragraph "Board Information-Compensation" on page 4 and the material
captioned "Executive Compensation" on pages 6 through 12 of its definitive Proxy
Statement, dated March 14, 2000.

         Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management. Registrant incorporates by reference the material captioned
"Security Ownership" on pages 5 and 6 of its definitive Proxy Statement, dated
March 14, 2000.

         Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  None.

                                     Part IV

         Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
                   Form 8-K.

    14(a) Index to documents filed as part of this report:

     1. and 2.  Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules.

The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of
this report (see page F-1).

     3. Exhibits

See Exhibit Index on page E-1.


                                     - 14 -




         14(b) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last
quarter of the period covered by this report:



      14(c)     See Exhibit Index on page E-1.

      14(d)     The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a
separate section of this report (see page F-1).

                                      -15-



                                   SIGNATURES


    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  THE STANLEY WORKS

                                  By      John M. Trani
                                     ---------------------------------
                                     John M. Trani, Chairman
                                     and Chief Executive Officer
March 30, 2000

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated.






*  By: Stephen S. Weddle
      ------------------------
      Stephen S. Weddle
      (As Attorney-in-Fact)


                                     -16-






FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(a) (1) and (2)

THE STANLEY WORKS AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    The following consolidated financial statements and report of independent
auditors of The Stanley Works and subsidiaries, included in the Annual Report of
the Registrant to its Shareowners for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8:

    Report of Independent Auditors

    Consolidated Statements of Operations--fiscal years ended January 1, 2000,
January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998.

    Consolidated Balance Sheets--January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999 and January 3,
1998.

    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--fiscal years ended January 1, 2000,
January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998.

    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareowners' Equity--fiscal years
ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998.

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Stanley Works
and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):


    F-4     Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


    All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.




                                       F-1






CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of The Stanley Works of our report dated January 26, 2000.

Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of The
Stanley Works listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration
statements of our report dated January 26, 2000 with respect to the consolidated
financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and our report included
in the preceding paragraph with respect to the consolidated financial statement
schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of The Stanley Works.

        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-93025)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-96778)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-97283)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-16669)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-12853)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-19930)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-39553)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-41612)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-46212)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-47889)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-55663)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62565)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62567)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62575)



                                                 ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
March 24, 2000

                                       F-2







CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration
statements pertaining to The Stanley Works Account Value Plan of our report
dated March 13, 2000, with respect to the financial statements and schedules of
The Stanley Works Account Value Plan for the year ended December 31, 1999
included as Exhibit 99(i) to this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the fiscal year
ended January 1, 2000.

        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-97283)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-41612)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-55663)



                                                          ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Hartford, Connecticut
March 24, 2000






















                                       F-3





                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THE STANLEY WORKS AND SUBSIDIARIES
     Fiscal years ended January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998
                            (In Millions of Dollars)



Notes:     (A)  Represents doubtful accounts charged off, less recoveries of
                accounts previously charged off.
           (B)  Represents net transfers to/from other accounts, foreign
                currency translation adjustments and acquisitions/divestitures.




                                 EXHIBIT LIST


(3) (i) Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2,
1999)

  (ii) By-laws (incorporated reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)

(4)(i) Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1986 between the Company and State Street
Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, defining the rights of holders of
7-3/8% Notes Due December 15, 2002 and 5.75% Notes Due March 1, 2004
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registration Statement No. 33-4344
filed March 27, 1986)

   (ii) First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1992 between the
Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor
trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(c) to Registration Statement
No. 33-46212 filed July 21, 1992)

        (a) Certificate of Designated Officers establishing Terms of 7-3/8%
Notes Due December 15, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(ii) to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 7, 1992)

        (b) Certificate of Designated Officers establishing Terms of 5.75% Notes
Due March 1, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(ii)(a) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 1999)

   (iii) Rights Agreement, dated January 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit (4)(i) to Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 1996)

   (iv) (a) Amended and Restated Facility A (364 Day) Credit Agreement, dated as
of October 23, 1996, with the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A. as agent
(incorporated reference to Exhibit 4(iv) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 28, 1996)

        (b) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 21, 1998, among the Company,
the Lenders named therein and Citibank, N.A. as agent (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4(iv)(c) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
October 3, 1998)

        (c) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 21, 1998, as amended and
restated as of October 20, 1999, among the Company, each lender that is a
signatory thereto and Citibank, N.A. as Agent for the Lenders (incorporated
reference to Exhibit 4(i) to

                                      E-1-



the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1999)

   (v) Amended and Restated Facility B (Five Year) Credit Agreement, dated as of
October 23, 1996, with the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A. as agent
(incorporated reference to Exhibit 4(v) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 28, 1996)

(10)(i) Executive Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1987)*

   (ii) Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors as amended January
31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to Current Report on Form
8-K dated January 31, 1996)*

   (iii) 1988 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended January 3, 1998)*

   (iv) Management Incentive Compensation Plan effective January 4, 1998
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)*

   (v) Deferred Compensation Plan for Participants in Stanley's Management
Incentive Plan effective January 1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(v) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 1995)*

   (vi)  Supplemental Retirement and Account Value Plan for Salaried Employees
of The Stanley Works effective as of January 1, 2000*

   (vii) Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between the Stanley
Account Value Plan Trust, acting by and through Citibank, N.A. as trustee under
the trust agreement for the Stanley Account Value Plan, for $41,050,763
aggregate principal amount of 6.07% Senior ESOP Guaranteed Notes Due December
31, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)





* Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement


                                      E-2-



   (viii) New 1991 Loan Agreement, dated June 30, 1998, between The Stanley
Works, as lender, and Citibank, N.A., as trustee under the trust agreement for
the Stanley Account Value Plan, to refinance the 1991 Salaried Employee ESOP
Loan and the 1991 Hourly ESOP Loan and their related promissory notes
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)

   (ix) (a) Supplemental Executive Retirement Program effective May 20, 1997
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xi)(a) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

        (b) Amendment to John M. Trani's Supplemental Executive Retirement
Program, dated September 17, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(xi)(b) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

   (x) (a) The Stanley Works Non-Employee Directors' Benefit Trust Agreement
dated December 27), 1989 and amended as of January 1, 1991 by and between The
Stanley Works and Fleet National Bank, as successor trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit (10)(xvii)(a) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended
December 29, 1990)

        (b) Stanley Works Employees' Benefit Trust Agreement dated December 27,
1989 and amended as of January 1, 1991 by and between The Stanley Works and
Fleet National Bank, as successor trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(xvii)(b) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 29, 1990)

   (xi) Restated and Amended 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10 (xiii) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
28, 1996)

   (xii) Master Leasing Agreement, dated September 1, 1992 between BLC
Corporation and The Stanley Works (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(i)
to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended September 26, 1992)

   (xiii) The Stanley Works Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as
amended December 18, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xvii) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)

   (xiv) Employment Agreement effective December 27, 1996 between The Stanley
Works and John M. Trani (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to Current
Report on Form 8-K dated January 2, 1997)*


  * Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement

                                      E-3-



   (xv) Letter Agreement, dated April 30, 1996 between The Stanley Works and
Paul W. Russo (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xx) to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

   (xvi) 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(xxi) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

   (xvii) Agreement, dated June 28, 1998 between The Stanley Works and Stef G.H.
Kranendijk (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xvii) to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 1999)*

   (xviii) Agreement, dated November 16, 1998 between The Stanley Works and John
A. Cosentino, Jr.(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xviii) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 1999)*

   (xix) Agreement, dated May 7, 1999 between The Stanley Works and Ron Newcomb
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended July 3, 1999)*

   (xx) Agreement, dated June 9, 1999 between The Stanley Works and James Loree
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1999)*

   (xxi) Engagement Letter, dated August 26, 1999 between The Stanley Works and
Donald R. McIlnay (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1999)*

   (xxii) Agreement, dated November 16, 1998 between The Stanley Works and John
Turner*

(11) Statement re computation of per share earnings (the information required to
be presented in this exhibit appears in footnote J to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements set forth in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended January 1, 2000)

(12) Statement re computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

(13)  Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended January 1, 2000

(21)  Subsidiaries of Registrant

*        Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement

                                      E-4-



(23)  Consents of Independent Auditors (at pages F-2 and F-3)

(27)  Financial Data Schedule for 1999 Fiscal Year End


(99) (i) Financial Statements and report of independent auditors for the year
ended December 31, 1999 of The Stanley Works Account Value Plan

      (ii) Policy on Confidential Proxy Voting and Independent Tabulation and
Inspection of Elections as adopted by The Board of Directors October 23, 1991
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit (28)(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 1991)





                                      E-5-



