
10-K
file001.txt
FORM 10-K




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ----------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                                  -------------

(Mark One)
 X  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
- --- ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001
                          -----------------

__________ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                      to
                                -------------------    ----------------------

                             COMMISSION FILE 1-5224

                                THE STANLEY WORKS
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

              CONNECTICUT                        06-0548860
  (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF             (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
  INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)           IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)

          1000 STANLEY DRIVE
       NEW BRITAIN, CONNECTICUT                     06053
(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)         (ZIP CODE)

                                 (860) 225-5111
                         (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER)
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS                       ON WHICH REGISTERED
         -------------------                       -------------------
Common Stock--Par Value $2.50 Per Share          New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Exchange

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

                   Yes  X                  No
                      -----                   -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [x].

The aggregate market value of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, held by
non-affiliates (based upon the closing sale price on the New York Stock
Exchange) on January 25, 2002 was approximately $3.7 billion. As of January 25,
2002, there were 85,081,072 shares of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share,
outstanding.


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Form S-4 Registration Statement dated February 8, 2002, filed
with the Commission pursuant to Regulation under the Securities Act of 1933,
are incorporated by reference into Part III.





                                    FORM 10-K
                                    ---------

                                     Part I

           Item 1.   Business.
           -------------------

         1(a) General Development of Business.
              -------------------------------

     (i) General. The Stanley Works ("Stanley" or the "company") was founded in
1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and incorporated in 1852. Stanley is a worldwide
producer of tools and door products for professional, industrial and consumer
use. Stanley(R) is a brand recognized around the world for quality and value.

     In 2001, Stanley had net sales of $2.624 billion and employed approximately
14,400 people worldwide. The company's principal executive office is located at
1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is
(860) 225-5111.

     (ii) Restructuring Activities. Information regarding the company's
restructuring activities is incorporated herein by reference to the material
captioned "Restructuring Activities" in Item 7. and Note N of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

          1(b) Financial Information About Segments. Financial information
regarding the company's business segments is incorporated herein by reference to
the material captioned "Business Segment Results" in Item 7. and Note O of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

          1(c) Narrative Description of Business. The company's operations are
classified into two business segments: Tools and Doors.

     Tools. The Tools segment manufactures and markets carpenters, mechanics,
pneumatic and hydraulic tools as well as tool sets. These products are
distributed directly to retailers (including home centers, mass merchants and
retail lumber yards) and end users as well as through third party distributors.
Carpenters tools include hand tools such as measuring instruments, planes,
hammers, knives and blades, screwdrivers, saws, garden tools, chisels, boring
tools, masonry, tile and drywall tools, as well as electronic stud sensors,
levels, alignment tools and elevation measuring systems. The company markets its
carpenters tools under the Stanley(R), FatMax(TM), MaxGrip(TM), Powerlock(R),
IntelliTools(TM), Contractor Grade(TM), Dynagrip(R), AccuScape(R) and
Goldblatt(R) brands.

Mechanics tools include consumer, industrial and professional




mechanics hand tools, including wrenches, sockets, electronic diagnostic tools,
tool boxes and high-density industrial storage and retrieval systems. Mechanics
tools are marketed under the Stanley(R), Proto(R), Mac(R), Husky(R), Jensen(R),
Vidmar(R), ZAG(R) and Blackhawk(TM) brands.

Pneumatic tools include Bostitch(R) fastening tools and fasteners (nails and
staples) used for construction, remodeling, furniture making, pallet
manufacturing and consumer use and pneumatic air tools marketed under the
Stanley(R) brand (these are high performance, precision assembly tools,
controllers and systems for tightening threaded fasteners used chiefly by
vehicle manufacturers).

Hydraulic tools include Stanley(R) hand-held hydraulic tools used by
contractors, utilities, railroads and public works as well as LaBounty(R)
mounted demolition hammers and compactors designed to work on skid steer
loaders, mini-excavators, backhoes and large excavators.

     Doors. The Doors segment manufactures and markets commercial and
residential doors, both automatic and manual, as well as closet doors and
systems, home decor and door and consumer hardware. Products in the Doors
segment include residential insulated steel, reinforced fiberglass and wood
entrance door systems, vinyl patio doors, mirrored closet doors and closet
organizing systems, automatic doors as well as related door hardware products
ranging from hinges, hasps, bolts and latches to shelf brackets and lock sets.
Door products are marketed under the Stanley(R), Magic-Door(R), WelcomeWatch(R),
Stanley-Acmetrack(TM), Monarch(TM) and Acme(R) brands and are sold directly to
end users and retailers as well as through third party distributors.

     Competition. The company competes on the basis of its reputation for
product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service and
strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines and its emphasis
on product innovation.

The company encounters active competition in all of its businesses from both
larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and
services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. The
company has a large number of competitors; however, aside from a small number of
competitors in the consumer hand tool and consumer hardware business, who
produce a range of products somewhat comparable to the company's, the majority
of its competitors compete only with respect to one or more individual products
within a particular line. The company believes that it is one of the largest





manufacturers of hand tools in the world featuring a broader line than any other
toolmaker. The company also believes that it is a leader in the manufacture and
sale of pneumatic fastening tools and related fasteners to the construction,
furniture and pallet industries as well as a leading manufacturer of hand-held
hydraulic tools used for heavy construction, railroads, utilities and public
works. In the Doors segment, the company believes that it is a U.S. leader in
the manufacture and sale of insulated steel residential entrance doors,
commercial hardware products, mirrored closet doors and hardware for sliding,
folding and pocket doors and the U.S. leader in the manufacture, sale and
installation of automatic sliding and swing powered doors.

     Customers. A substantial portion of the company's products are sold through
home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the U.S. In 2001,
approximately 18% of the company's consolidated sales in the Tools and Doors
segments collectively were to one customer. Because a consolidation of retailers
in the home center and mass merchant distribution channel is occurring, these
customers constitute a growing percent of the company's sales and are important
to the company's operating results. While this consolidation and the domestic
and international expansion of these large retailers provide the company with
opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual
customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential volume loss. The
loss of this one customer as well as certain of the other larger home centers as
customers would have a material adverse effect on each of the company's business
segments until either such customers are replaced or the company makes the
necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business.

Despite the trend toward customer consolidation, the company has a diversified
customer base and is seeking to broaden its customer base further in each
business segment by identifying and seeking new channels and customers that it
does not currently serve.

     Raw Materials. The company's products are manufactured of steel and other
metals, wood and plastic. The raw materials required are available from a number
of sources at competitive prices and the company has multi-year contracts with
many of its key suppliers. The company has experienced no difficulties in
obtaining supplies in recent periods.

     Backlog. At December 29, 2001, the company had $125 million in unfilled
orders compared with approximately $148 million in unfilled orders at February
3, 2001. All of these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the
current fiscal year. Most customers place orders for immediate shipment and as a




result, the company produces primarily for inventory, rather than to fill
specific orders.

     Patents and Trademarks. Neither business segment is dependent, to any
significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions and the loss
of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material
adverse effect on either business segment. The company owns numerous patents,
none of which are material to the company's operations as a whole. These patents
expire from time to time over the next 20 years. The company holds licenses,
franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate is
material to the company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and
concessions vary in duration from one to 20 years.

The company has numerous trademarks that are utilized in its businesses
worldwide. The STANLEY(R) and STANLEY (in a notched rectangle)(R) trademarks are
material to both business segments. These well-known trademarks enjoy a
reputation for quality and value and are among the world's most trusted brand
names. The company's tagline, "Make Something Great(TM)" is the centerpiece of
the company's brand strategy for both segments. In the Tools segment, the
Bostitch(R), Powerlock(R), Tape Rule Case Design (Powerlock)(R), LaBounty(R),
MAC(R), Proto(R), Jensen(R), Goldblatt(R), Husky(R), Vidmar(R) and Zag(R)
trademarks are also material to the business.

     Environmental Regulations. The company is subject to various environmental
laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has operations.
Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will
likely increase the company's expenditures related to environmental matters.

The company is a party to a number of proceedings before federal and state
regulatory agencies relating to environmental remediation. Additionally, the
company, along with many other parties, has been named as a potentially
responsible party ("PRP") in a number of administrative or judicial proceedings
for the remediation of various waste sites, including ten (10) active Superfund
sites. Current laws potentially impose joint and several liabilities upon each
PRP. In assessing its potential liability at these sites, the company has
considered the following: the solvency of the other PRP's, whether
responsibility is being disputed, the terms of existing agreements, experience
at similar sites, and the fact that its volumetric contribution at these sites
is relatively small.

The company's policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and




remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The amount of
liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with
respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing
technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in
remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into
account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As
assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded
are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal
information that becomes available. As of December 29, 2001, the company had
reserves of approximately $14.6 million, primarily for remediation activities
associated with company-owned properties as well as for Superfund sites.

The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates.
Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional
technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs to be
incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent
uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures. Subject to the imprecision
in estimating future environmental costs, the company does not expect that any
sum it may have to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the
amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its consolidated
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

     Employees. At December 29, 2001, the company had approximately 14,400
employees, approximately 7,000 of whom were employed in the U.S. Of these 7,000
U.S. employees, approximately 11.2% are covered by collective bargaining
agreements negotiated with 15 different local labor unions who are, in turn,
affiliated with approximately 7 different international labor unions. The
majority of the company's hourly-paid and weekly-paid employees outside the U.S.
are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. The company's labor
agreements in the U.S. expire in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. There have been no
significant interruptions or curtailments of the company's operations in recent
years due to labor disputes. The company believes that its relationship with its
employees is good.

     1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas. Financial information
regarding the company's geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to
Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

     1(e) Cautionary Statements. The company incorporates




by reference the material captioned "Cautionary Statements" in Item 7.

           Item 2. Properties.
           -------------------

     As of December 29, 2001, the company and its subsidiaries owned or leased
facilities for manufacturing, distribution and sales offices in 28 states and 31
foreign countries. The company believes that its facilities are suitable and
adequate for its business.

A summary of material locations (over 50,000 square feet) that are owned by the
company and its subsidiaries are:

     Tools.
     ------

Phoenix, Arizona; Visalia, California; Clinton and New Britain, Connecticut;
Shelbyville, Indiana; Two Harbors, Minnesota; Hamlet and Sanford, North
Carolina; Columbus, Georgetown and Sabina, Ohio; Allentown, Pennsylvania; East
Greenwich, Rhode Island; Cheraw, South Carolina; Shelbyville, Tennessee; Dallas
and Wichita Falls, Texas; Pittsfield and Shaftsbury, Vermont; Richmond,
Virginia; Smiths Falls, Canada; Pecky, Czech Republic; Hellaby, Northampton,
Worsley and Sheffield, England; Besancon Cedex, France; Wieseth, Germany;
Chihuahua and Puebla, Mexico; Wroclaw, Poland; Taichung Hsien, Taiwan; and
Amphur Bangpakong, Thailand.

     Doors.
     ------

Chatsworth, California; Farmington and New Britain, Connecticut; Richmond,
Virginia; Brampton, Canada; Sheffield, England; Marquette, France and Guang
Dong, Peoples Republic of China.

A summary of material locations (over 50,000 square feet) that are leased by the
company and its subsidiaries are:

     Tools.
     ------

New Britain, Connecticut; Miramar, Florida; Covington, Georgia; Kannapolis,
North Carolina; Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio; Milwaukie, Oregon; Carrollton,
Texas; Burlington and Smiths Falls, Canada; Ecclesfield, Worsley and
Northampton, England; Biassono, Italy; Heidelberg West, Australia and Izraelim,
Israel.

     Doors.
     ------

San Dimas, California; Tupelo, Mississippi; Charlotte, North Carolina;
Winchester, Virginia and Langley and Oakville, Canada.




           Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
           --------------------------

     In the normal course of business, the company is involved in various
lawsuits, claims, including product liability, environmental and distributor
claims, and administrative proceedings. The company does not expect that the
resolution of these matters will have a materially adverse effect on the
company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.


           Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
           -----------------------------------------------------------

     No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the company's last
fiscal year to a vote of security holders.

     Executive Officers. The following is a list of the executive officers of
the company as of December 29, 2001:

Name, Age
(as of 12/29/01)                                                 Elected
 Birth date         Office                                       to Office
 ----------         ------                                       ---------

J.M. Trani(56)      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.        12/31/96
(3/15/45)           Joined Stanley December 1996;
                    1986 President and Chief Executive
                    Officer of GE Medical Systems.

B.H. Beatt (49)     Vice President, General Counsel and          10/09/00
(07/24/52)          Secretary. Joined Stanley October 2000;
                    1991 Vice President, General Counsel
                    and Secretary, Dexter Corporation.

W.D. Hill (52)      Vice President, Engineering.  Joined         09/17/97
(9/18/49)           Stanley August 1997; 1996 Director
                    Product Management-Tool Group,
                    Danaher Tool; 1994 Vice President,
                    Product Development Global Accessories,
                    The Black & Decker Corporation; 1992
                    Vice President Product Development-N.A.
                    Power Tools, The Black & Decker
                    Corporation.

P.M.Isabella (46)   Vice President, Operations.                  10/18/01
(10/14/55)          Joined Stanley May 1999; January
                    1998, Vice President Operations, GE
                    Industrial Systems; January 1995,
                    General Manager Switchgear/Busway
                    Operation.

K.O. Lewis (48)     Vice President, Marketing and Brand          11/03/97
(5/28/53)           Management. Joined Stanley November
                    1997; 1996 Executive Vice President
                    Strategic Alliances, Marvel
                    Entertainment Group; 1986 Director



                    Participant Marketing,
                    Walt Disney Attractions.

J.M. Loree (43)     Vice President, Finance and Chief            07/19/99
(6/14/58)           Financial Officer.  Joined Stanley
                    July 1999; 1997 Vice President,
                    Finance & Strategic Planning, GE
                    Capital Auto Financial Services;
                    1995 President & Chief Executive
                    Officer, GE Capital Modular Space.

M.J. Mathieu (49)   Vice President, Human Resources.             09/17/97
(2/20/52)           Joined Stanley September 1997;
                    1996 Manager-Human Resources,
                    GE Motors & Industrial Systems;
                    1994 Consultant-Executive Staffing,
                    General Electric Company; 1989
                    Consultant-Union Relations, General
                    Electric Company.

D.R. McIlnay(51)    President, Consumer Sales Americas.          10/04/99
(6/11/50)           Joined Stanley October 1999; 1997
                    President & Chief Executive Officer,
                    The Gibson-Homans Company; 1993
                    President, Levolor Home Fashions,
                    a Newell company.

P.W. Russo (48)     Vice President, Strategy and                 09/18/95
(5/23/53)           Development. Joined Stanley in 1995;
                    1991 Co-Chairman and Co-Chief
                    Executive Officer, SV Corp. (formerly
                    Smith Valve Corp.); 1988 Co-founder and
                    Managing Director, Cornerstone Partners
                    Limited.


                                     Part II

           Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
           ------------------------------------------------------------
Stockholder Matters.
- -------------------

     The company's Common Stock is listed and traded on the New York and Pacific
Stock Exchanges under the abbreviated ticker symbol "SWK", and is a component of
the S&P 500 Composite Stock Price Index. The following table shows the quarterly
high and low sales price on the NYSE for a share of the company's Common Stock
for each quarter in the years ended December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000:








As of December 29, 2001 there were 15,290 holders of record of the company's
Common Stock.


                  Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.
                  --------------------------------

The following selected financial information should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes appearing elsewhere in
this Form 10-K:



(A) Includes restructuring-related charges and asset impairments of $72.4
    million, or $.58 per share; a pension curtailment gain of $29.3 million, or
    $.22 per share; $11.2 million in special charges for business repositionings
    and initiatives at Mac Tools, or $.09 per share; $4.8 million , or $.04 per
    share, in special severance charges; $3.4 million, or $.04 per share, in
    special credits for tax benefits; and $6.4 million, or $.05 per share, in
    special inventory charges.

(B) Includes restructuring-related transition and other non-recurring costs of
    $54.9 million, or $.40 per share; a one-time net restructuring credit of
    $21.3 million, or $.15 per share; a Mechanics Tools' special charge of $20.1
    million, or $.14 per share; and a gain realized upon the termination of a
    cross-currency financial instrument of $11.4 million, or $.08 per share.



(C) Includes restructuring-related transition and other non-recurring costs of
    $85.9 million, or $.61 per share.

(D) Includes charges for restructuring and asset impairments of $238.5 million,
    or $2.00 per share; related transition costs of $71.0 million, or $.49 per
    share; and a non-cash charge of $10.6 million, or $.07 per share, for a
    stock option grant as specified in the company's employment contract with
    its Chief Executive Officer.

Note: Earnings per share amounts within footnotes A through D above are net of
taxes and are on a fully diluted basis.



           Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
           -------------------------------------------------------------------
and Results of Operations.
- -------------------------

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

     Results of Operations. Net sales were $2,624 million for 2001, as compared
to $2,749 million in 2000, a 5% decrease. The company experienced sales volume
declines in the Tools segment due to softness in the commercial and industrial
markets. Sales in 2001 were also negatively impacted (approximately 1%) from the
translation of foreign currency as these currencies, primarily in Europe and
Asia, continue to weaken against the U.S. dollar.

Net sales in 2000 of $2,749 million were relatively flat as compared to 1999.
Overall unit volume growth was completely offset by a reduction from the net
effect of foreign currency translation, primarily in Europe. The company
experienced sales volume growth in the Tools segment which was partially offset
by the effects of weakening markets on the Doors segment.

During 2001, the company recorded charges related to restructuring initiatives
totaling $72 million ($18 incurred in the first quarter and $54 incurred
in the fourth quarter). These costs consisted primarily of severance and asset
impairments as the company continues to rationalize its cost structure and
headcount. In addition, the company incurred certain credits and charges during
2001 that were determined by management to be special, or non-recurring. In the
first quarter, the company recorded a pre-tax $29 million pension curtailment
gain pertaining to its U.S. pension plan. Also in the first quarter, the company
recorded $11 million of special charges related to several business
repositionings. The repositionings were principally in the Tools segment and
included continuing movement of production, permanent reduction of the overhead
cost structure of its manufacturing system, and a series of initiatives at Mac
Tools. In the third quarter, the company recorded a special charge of $5 million
for severance costs incurred due to lower sales volumes and the continuing
weakness in the industrial markets. Also in the third quarter, the company
recorded $3 million in special credits for tax benefits. In the fourth quarter,
the company recorded a special charge of $6 million for the disposition of
inventories associated principally with discontinued manufacturing plants and
SKU's. These special credits and charges were classified as period



income and expenses and were specifically classified within the Consolidated
Statement of Operations as follows: (i) sales - $1 million charge, (ii) cost of
sales - $12 million charge, (iii) SG&A expenses - $8 million charge, (iv)
interest-net - $0.2 million credit, (vi) Other-net - $28 million credit, and
(vii) income taxes - $3 million credit. The tax benefit of the restructuring
charges and the special charges and credits amounted to $18 million.

Financial results for the first six months of 1999 include transition expenses
related to the company's restructuring initiatives. These costs were classified
as period operating expenses within cost of sales ($20 million) and SG&A
expenses ($35 million). They included the costs of moving production equipment,
operating duplicate facilities while transferring production or distribution,
consulting costs incurred in planning and implementing changes, recruiting and
relocation of employees, the cost of transition employees involved in
reorganizing the functions, and other types of costs that were incurred to
facilitate restructuring. In addition, the company incurred costs to remediate
its computer and related systems so that these systems would function properly
with regard to date issues pertaining to the Year 2000 ("Y2K").

Results in 1999 also included a $20 million special charge in the fourth quarter
as the company recorded higher estimates for certain loss provisions related to
its mechanics tools businesses, principally MacDirect. The changes in estimates
were based on the company's evolving experience in managing a direct mobile
sales force in the automotive channel as well as inefficiencies in operating
mechanisms and systems. Of the total $20 million special charges to income: $3
million was included in net sales, $11 million was included in cost of sales,
$11 million was included in SG&A expenses and a credit of $5 million was
included in Other-net.

Because the presence of restructuring charges and asset impairments, special
credits and charges, restructuring-related transition costs and non-recurring
Y2K remediation costs obscure the underlying trends within the company's
business, the narrative regarding results of operations and business segments
has been expanded to provide information as to the effects of these items on
each financial statement category.

In 2001, the company reported gross profit of $923 million, or 35.2% of net
sales compared to $997 million or 36.3% of net sales in 2000. Included in gross
profit for 2001 were $13 million of special charges taken in the first and
fourth quarters related to business repositioning initiatives within the Tools
segment and the disposition of inventories principally with discontinued
manufacturing plants and SKU's.



Gross profit excluding these costs amounted to $936 million or 35.6% of net
sales. The reduction in gross profit was a result of a shift in sales mix to
retail and independent Mac sales channels versus industrial and direct Mac sales
channels, partially offset by $80 million in productivity improvements. The
company also experienced a decrease in cost of sales as a result of Last-in,
First-Out (LIFO) reserve decreases as the company continues to reduce its cost
of manufacturing and product costs by moving operations to low-cost countries.
These LIFO benefits were offset by increases in transportation costs and other
inventory valuation reserves.

In 2000, the company reported gross profit of $997 million, or 36.3% of net
sales compared to 34.1% in 1999. Included in cost of sales for 1999 were $20
million of restructuring-related transition costs, primarily for plant
rationalization activities, and a portion of the mechanic tools' special charges
of $11 million. Gross profit in 1999, excluding these restructuring-related and
special charges was 35.3% of net sales. This significant improvement in gross
profit was attributable to a combination of the company's improved ability to
adjust employment and production plans as market demand fluctuated, improved
cost controls in operations, the benefits of the company's restructuring
programs, and continued progress on purchased material costs despite
inflationary pressures.

Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $594 million for
2001. Excluding the impact of $8 million in special charges ($3 million in the
first quarter and $5 million in the third quarter) from business repositionings
and additional severance charges apart from the restructuring initiatives, SG&A
expenses amounted to $586 million, or 22.3% of net sales, as compared to $657
million for 2000, or 23.9% of net sales. Improvements in SG&A expenses are
attributable to continued cost reductions achieved from changes made within the
information management infrastructure, downward adjustments to employment levels
in response to weak economic markets and the benefits attained from the
company's restructuring and repositioning efforts.

SG&A expenses were $657 million, or 23.9% of net sales, in 2000, as compared
with $703 million, or 25.5% of net sales in 1999. Included in 1999 were $35
million of restructuring-related transition and other non-recurring costs and
fourth quarter special charges related to mechanics' tools of $11 million.
Excluding these costs, SG&A expenses were $657 million in 1999, or 23.9% of net
sales. The company made significant strides in the latter half of 2000 in its
continual effort to reduce SG&A expenses. In the first half of 2000, the
company's expenses were 6% higher than 1999 expenses for the same period,
primarily the



result of increased distribution costs, information management infrastructure
costs, and selling and administrative costs related to an increased number of
sales representatives in the MacDirect program. However, in the second half of
2000, the company's expenses were 6% lower than 1999 expenses for the same
period. Significant cost reductions were achieved pertaining to information
management infrastructure, distribution, and administrative activities. In 2000,
SG&A expenses were also favorably impacted as compared to 1999 as a result of an
increase in income related to U.S. pension plans.

Interest-net was $26 million in 2001 as compared to $27 million in 2000. The
decrease was a result of a decline in interest rates partially offset by an
increase in weighted average debt levels in 2001.

Interest-net of $27 million in 2000 represented a slight decrease from $28
million in 1999 as debt levels were relatively consistent from year to year.

Other-net for 2001 represents income of $5 million. Excluding the gain recorded
in conjunction with the company's curtailment of a U.S. pension plan of $29
million and a special charge of $2 million, both occurring in the first quarter
of 2001, Other-net amounted to expense of $22 million as compared to expense of
$20 million in 2000.

Other-net was $20 million of expense in 2000 compared with $3 million in income
for 1999. The company experienced lower gains from asset sales in 2000 and
incurred a write-off of the remaining interest in a previously disposed
equipment rental business. Additionally, included in 1999 results were
non-recurring currency related gains of $11 million realized upon the
termination of a cross-currency financial instrument.

The company's effective income tax rate for 2001 was 33% as compared to 34% for
2000 and 35% for 1999. The tax rate decreases reflect the continued benefit of
organizational and operational changes during recent years that have generated a
higher percentage of taxable income in countries with lower statutory rates,
primarily in Europe, Israel, and the Far East.

In addition, the company recorded special credits in the third quarter of 2001
for tax benefits of $3 million. These special credits were entirely offset by
reduced tax benefits related to the restructuring charges and special charges.

     Business Segment Results. The Tools segment includes carpenters, mechanics,
pneumatic and hydraulic tools, as well as tool sets. The Doors segment includes
commercial and residential



doors, both automatic and manual, as well as closet doors and systems, home
decor and door and consumer hardware. The information presented below excludes
restructuring-related transition costs for the first half of 1999. Segment
eliminations are also excluded. Special fourth quarter 1999 charges related to
Mechanics' Tools of $25 million are reflected in Tools 1999 segment results.

TOOLS
(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----
Net sales                            $ 2,022       $ 2,143      $ 2,116
Operating profit                     $   266       $   286      $   248
% of Net sales                         13.2%         13.3%        11.7%

Tools sales declined in 2001 as compared to 2000 by 6%. The sales decrease is
primarily the result of unit volume declines from the Mac Tools repositioning in
the first quarter of 2001 and weak industrial markets in North America. Also
contributing to the sales decline was the effect of foreign currency translation
as European currencies continued to decline against the US dollar. Despite lower
sales, Tools operating profit as a percentage of net sales remained fairly
static as compared to 2000. Excluding the net impact of special credits and
charges allocated to the Tools segment totaling $15 million, operating profit
totaled $281 million, or 13.9% of net sales. The improvements in operating
margin, exclusive of special credits and charges, are primarily a result of SG&A
reductions.

Tools sales increased 1% in 2000 as compared to 1999 primarily from unit volume
improvements. A 3% unit volume increase was almost completely offset by a 2%
reduction in sales from the net effect of foreign currency translation,
primarily due to weaker European currencies. Operating profit in 2000 for the
tools segment was 13.3% of net sales compared to 1999, excluding special
charges, of 12.9% of net sales. The increase from prior year is due to improved
cost controls in operations, the benefits of the company's restructuring
initiatives, and higher unit volumes.

DOORS
(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----
Net sales                              $ 602         $ 606        $ 636
Operating profit                       $  64         $  55        $  42
% of Net sales                         10.6%          9.1%         6.6%

Doors sales were fairly static in 2001, representing a decrease of less than 1%.
Net sales in the Doors segment reflect strong sales attributable to a new
program launch with a significant customer, offset by certain sluggish market
conditions in the Americas. Operating profit for Doors totaled 10.6% of net
sales in 2001 as compared to 9.1% for 2000. Excluding the impact of



net special credits and charges allocated to the Doors segment totaling $5
million, operating profit totaled $69 million, or 11.4% of net sales. The
improvements in operating profit, as a percentage of sales, is a result of
improved productivity in the hardware business as the company shifted the
production base to low-cost countries, and the continued reduction of SG&A
expenses.

Net sales decreased by 5% in 2000 as compared to 1999, driven by declining
hardware sales. This decline was partially offset by sales unit volume growth in
automated door products. Operating profit in 2000 was 9.1% of net sales compared
to operating profit of 6.6% for 1999. This increase is due primarily to
realization of benefits associated with various productivity programs.

     Restructuring Activities. In 2001, the company undertook new initiatives to
reduce its cost structure and executed several business repositionings intended
to improve its competitiveness. These actions have or will result in the closure
of thirteen facilities and a net employment reduction of approximately 2,100
production, selling and administrative people. As a result, the company recorded
$18 million and $54 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges in the
first and fourth quarters, respectively. Reserves were established for these
initiatives consisting of $55 million for severance, $10 million for asset
impairment charges and $7 million for other exit costs. These initiatives are
expected to be substantially completed by the middle of 2003.

In 1999, the company completed an evaluation of the remaining reserves that were
established in 1997 for restructuring initiatives and determined that certain
projects would be cancelled in order to reapply company resources to higher
payback areas. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 1999, the company reversed
$62 million of reserves established for such actions.

Also in 1999, new projects were approved to achieve improved cost productivity.
These new initiatives included facility closures and the related relocation of
production, a reduction in work force in administrative functions and the
outsourcing of non-core activities as well as related asset impairments. The
company recorded restructuring and asset impairments charges related to these
new initiatives of $40 million, of which $30 million related to severance, $8
million related to asset impairment charges, and $2 million related to other
exit costs.

In 2000, the company completed the restructuring initiatives announced in 1997
and 1999 and will be incurring run-off expenditures of $2 million over the next
two years.

To date the company has closed 66 facilities and reduced



employment by approximately 8,300 people related to all restructuring
initiatives.


FINANCIAL CONDITION
- -------------------

     Liquidity, Sources and Uses of Capital. The company's primary sources of
liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowings under various credit
facilities. The company has historically generated strong cash flows from
operations. In 2001, cash flows from operations were $222 million as compared to
$236 million in 2000. The decline in operating cash flow was primarily the
result of an increase in cash payments for restructuring in 2001 of $45 million
as compared with $32 million in 2000, partially offset by an increase in
non-cash earnings.

During 2000 the company generated $236 million in operating cash flow, versus
$222 million in 1999. This increase resulted primarily from a significant
reduction in restructuring-related transition costs, which were offset partially
by higher working capital requirements. In 2000, the company's receivables
decreased by $14 million, inventory increased by $17 million, and accounts
payable increased by $15 million. The receivables decrease was primarily
attributed to the doors segment as volume declined. The increased inventory was
in the tools segment. The accounts payable increase resulted from renegotiation
of vendor terms and increased attention to payment management. The company made
cash payments of $32 million for its restructuring activities, primarily
severance.

Capital expenditures in 2001 were $73 million as compared to $64 million in 2000
driven by an increase in costs for software development and acquisition as the
company expands the infrastructure of its systems as well as the addition of
"The Stanley Learning Center" (a major addition at World Headquarters for the
training and development of employees). Capital expenditures were $64 million in
2000 down from $103 million in 1999. Investment in capital for 2000 was lower
than traditional levels as a result of facility consolidations, continued
outsourcing and the Stanley Production System.

The company has unused short and long-term credit arrangements with several
banks to borrow up to $350 million at the lower of prime or money market rates.
Of this amount, $100 million is long-term. The company has short-term lines of
credit with numerous foreign banks aggregating $113 million, of which $96
million was available at December 29, 2001. Short-term arrangements are reviewed
annually for renewal. Of the long-term and short-term lines, $350 million is
available to support the company's commercial paper program. On February 7, 2002
the



company refinanced $75 million of commercial paper through the issuance of 5
year notes payable at a fixed interest rate of 4.5%. This $75 million obligation
is classified under long-term debt at December 29, 2001. In addition to these
lines of credit, the company maintains a facility designed for the
securitization of certain trade accounts receivable for purposes of additional
liquidity. As of December 29, 2001, the company's maximum available funds under
this arrangement were $106 million, of which the company had utilized $22
million.

The following summarizes the company's significant contractual obligations and
commitments that impact its liquidity.



Short-term borrowings, long-term debt and lines of credit are explained in
detail within Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
8. Operating leases and other commercial commitments are explained in detail in
Note Q of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

The company's desired objective is to increase dividends by at least one-half
the company's earnings growth rate, ultimately reaching a dividend payout ratio
of 25%. Dividends increased 4.4% in 2001, 3.5% in 2000 and 5% in 1999.




The company repurchased 4.3 million shares of its common stock in 2000. The net
effect was a decrease in equity of $111 million. These repurchases were funded
primarily by cash flow from operations. The company has indicated that it may
continue to repurchase its shares when deemed appropriate.

     Market Risk. Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result
from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The company is
exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and
interest rates. Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company,
through its global businesses, enters into transactions and makes investments
denominated in multiple currencies. The company's predominant exposures are in
European, Canadian and Asian currencies. Certain cross-currency trade flows
arising from sales and procurement activities are consolidated prior to
obtaining risk protection, primarily purchased options. The company is thus able
to capitalize on its global positioning by taking advantage of naturally
offsetting exposures to reduce the cost of purchasing protection. At times, the
company also enters into forward exchange contracts and purchased options to
reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of non-functional currency denominated
receivables and payables, predominately intercompany transactions. Gains and
losses from these hedging instruments offset the gains or losses on the
underlying net exposures, assets and liabilities being hedged. Management
determines the nature and extent of currency hedging activities, and in certain
cases, may elect to allow certain currency exposures to remain unhedged. The
company has also entered into several cross-currency interest rate swaps,
primarily to reduce overall borrowing costs, but also to provide a partial hedge
of the net investments in certain subsidiaries. Sensitivity to foreign currency
exposure risk from these financial instruments at the end of 2001 would have
been immaterial based on the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical
10% adverse movement in all currencies.

The company's exposure to interest rate risk results from its outstanding debt
obligations, short-term investments and derivative financial instruments
employed in the management of its debt portfolio. The debt portfolio is managed
to achieve capital structure targets and reduce the overall cost of borrowing by
using a combination of fixed and floating rate debt as well as interest rate
swaps, caps and cross-currency interest rate swaps. The company's primary
exposure to interest risk comes from its floating rate debt in the US, Canada
and Europe and is fairly represented by changes in LIBOR rates. At December 29,
2001, the result of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in short term
LIBOR rates would not have resulted in a material impact on the pretax profit of
the company.



The company has access to financial resources and borrowing capabilities around
the world. The company believes that its strong financial position, operating
cash flows and borrowing capacity provide the financial flexibility necessary to
continue its record of annual dividend payments, to invest in the routine needs
of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund the restructuring
and other initiatives encompassed by its growth strategy.


OTHER MATTERS
- -------------

     Environmental. The company incurs costs related to environmental issues as
a result of various laws and regulations governing current operations as well as
the remediation of previously contaminated sites. Future laws and regulations
are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the company's
expenditures related to routine environmental matters.

The company accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and
remediation efforts in accordance with appropriate accounting guidelines which
address probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. The
liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or
remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. Subject to the
imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the company believes that
any sum it may pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the
amounts recorded will not have a materially adverse effect on its consolidated
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

     New Accounting Standards. Refer to Note A of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8. for a discussion of new accounting
pronouncements and the potential impact to the company's consolidated results of
operations and consolidated financial position.

     Critical Accounting Policies. The company has determined that the following
accounting policies are critical due to the amount of estimation required:

     Allowance for doubtful accounts. The company's estimate for its allowance
for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The
amounts calculated from each of these methods are combined to determine the
total amount reserved. First, the company evaluates specific accounts where we
have information that the customer may have an inability to meet its financial
obligations (bankruptcy, etc.). In these



cases, the company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and
circumstances, and records a specific reserve for that customer against amounts
due to reduce the receivable to the amount that is expected to be collected.
These specific reserves are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information
is received that impacts the amount reserved. Second, a general reserve is
established for all customers based on a range of percentages applied to aging
categories. These percentages are based on historical collection and write-off
experience. If circumstances change (i.e. higher than expected defaults or an
unexpected material adverse change in a major customer's ability to meet its
financial obligation to the company), the company's estimates of the
recoverability of amounts due the company could be reduced by a material amount.

     Inventories - lower of cost or market, slow moving and obsolete. The
company ensures inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, and
continually reviews the book value of discontinued product lines and SKU's to
determine if these items are properly valued. The company identifies these items
and assesses the ability to dispose of them at a price greater than cost. If it
is determined that cost is less than market value, then cost is used for
inventory valuation. If market value is less than cost, then the company writes
down the related inventory to that value. If a write down to the current market
value is necessary, the market value cannot be greater than the net realizable
value, or ceiling, (defined as selling price less costs to complete and dispose)
and cannot be lower than the net realizable value less a normal profit margin,
also called the floor. The company also continually evaluates the composition of
its inventory and identifies slow-moving inventories. Inventory items identified
as slow-moving are evaluated to determine if reserves are required. Generally,
the company does not experience issues with obsolete inventory due to the nature
of its products. If the company is not able to achieve its expectations of the
net realizable value of the inventory at its current value, the company would
have to adjust its reserves accordingly.

     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. The company's off-balance sheet
arrangements include the following:

The company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, pools of accounts and
notes receivables to two Qualified Special Purpose Entities, which qualify to be
accounted for as unconsolidated subsidiaries ("QSPE's"). The entities are
designed to facilitate the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable
and are used to fund the Mac Advantage financing program and as an additional
source of liquidity. Assets and related debt off-balance sheet were $82 and $64



million at December 29, 2001 and $69 and $66 million at December 30, 2000,
respectively. The company is responsible for servicing these accounts and
receives a servicing fee, while the QSPE's bear the risk of noncollection.

The company has $212 million in equity forward contracts, maturing December 31,
2002, with major U.S. financial institutions. The equity forwards on Stanley
common shares are designed to partially hedge the dilutive effect on earnings
per share of "in-the-money" stock options as the stock price fluctuates. The
structure requires net share settlement, and is accounted for within equity.
Cash settlements may be elected at the option of the company. The company has
made no cash settlement elections during the contract period.

The equity forward contracts contain registration and unwind triggers in the
event the company's stock price declines below $19 per share, or its credit
rating is downgraded to below investment grade. If the stock price declines, the
company may issue shares to the counterparties that exceed the favorable offset
of stock options coming "out-of-the-money" which could cause dilution of
earnings per share. The company received 1,432,264 shares valued at $67 million
from quarterly net share settlements in fiscal 2001.

The company is a party to synthetic leasing programs for two of its major
distribution centers. The leases are designed and qualify as operating leases
for accounting purposes, where only the monthly lease amount is recorded in the
income statement and the liability and value of underlying asset is off-balance
sheet. The company also has numerous synthetic leases on personal property. The
company does not anticipate any material liabilities associated with these
transactions.

     Cautionary Statements. The statements contained in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) to shareowners regarding the company's ability (i) reduce its cost
structure, including the reduction of facilities and employees, and improve
competitiveness, (ii) broaden its customer base further in each business
segment, (iii) to increase dividends, and (iv) invest in its businesses and to
fund acquisitions and other initiatives are forward looking and inherently
subject to risk and uncertainty.

The company's ability to lower its overall cost structure is dependent on the
success of various initiatives to improve manufacturing operations and to
implement related cost control systems and to source from and manufacture a
higher percentage of the company's products in low-cost countries. The success
of these initiatives is dependent on the company's ability to increase the
efficiency of its routine business processes, to



develop and implement process control systems, to develop and execute
comprehensive plans for facility consolidations, the availability of vendors to
perform outsourced functions, the availability of lower cost raw material of
suitable quality from foreign countries, the successful recruitment and training
of new employees, the resolution of any labor issues related to closing
facilities, the need to respond to significant changes in product demand while
any facility consolidation is in process and other unforeseen events. In
addition, the company's ability to leverage the benefits of gross margin
improvements is dependent upon maintaining selling, general and administrative
expense at 2001 levels. The company's ability to maintain the level of selling,
general and administrative expenses is dependent upon various process
improvement activities, the successful implementation of changes to the sales
organization, the recruitment and retention of manufacturers sales
representatives and the reduction of transaction costs.

The company's ability to broaden its customer base in each business segment is
dependent on a number of factors including, the success of the company's sales
and marketing programs and its ability to attract new customers.

The company's ability to increase dividends and invest in its businesses and to
fund acquisitions and other initiatives is dependent on its ability to generate
adequate cash flows and is dependent on all the factors discussed above.

The company's ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be
affected by external factors. These external factors include pricing pressure
and other changes within competitive markets, the continued consolidation of
customers in consumer channels, increasing competition, changes in trade,
monetary, fiscal and tax policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange
fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange rates on the
competitiveness of products and recessionary or expansive trends in the
economies of the world in which the company operates.


           Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
           --------------------------------------------------------------------

     The company incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk"
in Item 7. and Note I of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
8.

           Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
           ---------------------------------------------------



     See Item 14. for an index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedules. Such Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules are
incorporated herein by reference.


           Item 9. Changes in and  Disagreements  With  Accountants on
           -----------------------------------------------------------
Accounting and Financial  Disclosure.    None.
- ------------------------------------

                                    Part III

           Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
           -----------------------------------------------------------
Information regarding the company's Executive Officers appears in the "Executive
Officers" section in Item 4. In addition, the company incorporates by reference
pages 43 through 46 of its Form S-4 Registration Statement, dated February 8,
2002.


           Item 11. Executive Compensation. The company incorporates by
           -------------------------------
reference the paragraph "Board Information-Compensation" on pages 45 and 46 and
the material captioned "Executive Compensation" on pages 47 through 53 of its
Form S-4 Registration Statement, dated February 8, 2002.


           Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           ------------------------------------------------------------
Management. The company incorporates by reference the material captioned
- ----------
"Security Ownership" on pages 46 and 47 of its Form S-4 Registration Statement,
dated February 8, 2002.


           Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. None.
           -------------------------------------------------------


                                     Part IV

           Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
8-K.

     14(a) Index to documents filed as part of this report:
     -----

     1. and 2. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules.

The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of
this report (see page F-1).

     3. Exhibits



See Exhibit Index on page E-1.

     14(b) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter
     -----
of the period covered by this report:


        Date of Report              Items Reported
        --------------              --------------

        October 17, 2001            Press Release dated October
                                    18, 2001 announcing third
                                    quarter 2001 results and
                                    Kampouris to the Board
                                    of Directors.

     14(c) See Exhibit Index on page E-1.
     -----

     14(d) The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
     -----
section of this report (see page F-1).



SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  THE STANLEY WORKS


                                  By  /s/ John M. Trani
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                     John M. Trani, Chairman
                                     and Chief Executive Officer

February 22, 2002

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the company
and in the capacities indicated.

/s/ John M. Trani                      /s/ James M. Loree
- -------------------------------        -----------------------------------------
John M. Trani, Chairman, Chief         James M. Loree, Vice President,
Executive Officer and Director         Finance and Chief Financial Officer

/s/ Donald Allan Jr.                                    *
- -------------------------------        -----------------------------------------
Donald Allan Jr., Corporate            John G. Breen, Director
Controller

            *                                           *
- -------------------------------        -----------------------------------------
Robert G. Britz, Director              Stillman B. Brown, Director

            *                                           *
- -------------------------------        -----------------------------------------
Emmanuel A. Kampouris, Director        Eileen S. Kraus, Director

            *                                           *
- -------------------------------        -----------------------------------------
John D. Opie, Director                 Derek V. Smith, Director

            *
- -------------------------------
Kathryn D. Wriston, Director




*By:  /s/ Bruce H. Beatt
      -------------------------------------
      Bruce H. Beatt
       (As Attorney-in-Fact)






FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(a) (1) and (2)
THE STANLEY WORKS AND SUBSIDIARIES


INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

     Report of Independent Auditors

     Consolidated Statements of Operations--fiscal years ended December 29,
2001, December 30, 2000, and January 1, 2000.

     Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000.

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--fiscal years ended December 29,
2001, December 30, 2000, and January 1, 2000.

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareowners' Equity-- fiscal years
ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000, and January 1, 2000.

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Stanley Works and
subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

     F-3 Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


     All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required
under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been
omitted.



                                       F-1




                         Consent of Independent Auditors

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration
statements of The Stanley Works of our report dated January 24, 2002, except for
Note H and Note S, as to which the date is February 8, 2002, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements and schedule of The Stanley Works included in
this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 29, 2001.

     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-93025)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-96778)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-97283)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-16669)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-12853)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-19930)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-39553)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-41612)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-46212)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-47889)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-55663)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62565)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62567)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62575)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-42346)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-42582)
     o Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-64326)


                                                           /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
February 18, 2002


                                      F-2


                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THE STANLEY WORKS AND SUBSIDIARIES
   Fiscal years ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000
                            (In Millions of Dollars)




Notes:   (A)  Represents doubtful accounts charged off, less recoveries of
              accounts previously charged off.
         (B)  Represents net transfers to/from other accounts, foreign currency
              translation adjustments and acquisitions/divestitures.



                                      F-3





                         Report of Independent Auditors

The Shareowners
The Stanley Works

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Stanley
Works and subsidiaries as of December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareowners' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended December
29, 2001. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the Index at Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The
Stanley Works and subsidiaries at December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, and
the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three fiscal years in the period ended December 29, 2001, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.


                                                           /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Hartford, Connecticut
January 24, 2002, except for Note H and Note S, as to
which the date is February 8, 2002


                                      F-4



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


Fiscal years ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000


See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-5



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000

(Millions of Dollars)                                        2001           2000
                                                             ----           ----
ASSETS
- ------
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                  $    115.2 $     93.6
Accounts and notes receivable                                   551.3      531.9
Inventories                                                     410.1      398.1
Deferred taxes                                                    4.7       29.6
Other current assets                                             60.1       41.1
                                                           ---------- ----------
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                          1,141.4    1,094.3
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                                   494.3      503.7
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES                                  236.1      175.9
OTHER ASSETS                                                    183.9      110.9
                                                           ---------- ----------
TOTAL ASSETS                                               $  2,055.7 $  1,884.8
                                                           ========== ==========
LIABILITIES AND SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Short-term borrowings                                      $    177.3 $    207.6
Current maturities of long-term debt                            120.1        6.1
Accounts payable                                                247.7      239.8
Accrued expenses                                                280.4      253.8
                                                           ---------- ----------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                                       825.5      707.3
LONG-TERM DEBT                                                  196.8      248.7
RESTRUCTURING RESERVES                                           11.5        1.3
OTHER LIABILITIES                                               189.6      191.0
SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
Preferred stock, without par value:
  Authorized and unissued 10,000,000 shares
Common stock, par value $2.50 per share:
  Authorized 200,000,000 shares;
  issued 92,343,410 shares
  in 2001 and 2000                                              230.9      230.9
Retained earnings                                             1,184.9    1,039.6
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                           (138.9)   (124.5)
ESOP debt                                                      (187.7)   (194.8)
                                                           ---------- ----------
                                                              1,089.2      951.2
Less: cost of common stock in treasury
  (7,684,663 shares in 2001 and 7,155,158 shares in 2000)       256.9      214.7
                                                           ---------- ----------
TOTAL SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY                                       832.3      736.5
                                                           ---------- ----------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY                   $ 2,055.7  $ 1,884.8
                                                            =========  =========

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-6


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Fiscal years ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000



See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-7


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY

Fiscal years ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000



See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-8



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation
- ---------------------
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and
its majority-owned subsidiaries which require consolidation, after the
elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions. The company's fiscal year
ends on the Saturday nearest to December 31. There were 52 weeks in fiscal years
2001, 2000 and 1999.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as
well as certain financial statement disclosures. While management believes that
the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial
statements are appropriate, actual results could differ from these estimates.

Foreign Currency Translation
- ----------------------------
For foreign operations with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates; income
and expenses are translated using weighted average exchange rates. Resulting
translation adjustments, as well as gains and losses from certain intercompany
transactions, are reported in a separate component of shareowners' equity.
Translation adjustments for operations in highly inflationary economies and
exchange gains and losses on transactions are included in earnings, and amounted
to net losses for 2001, 2000 and 1999 of $0.1 million, $2.3 million and $4.8
million, respectively.

Cash Equivalents
- ----------------
Highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are
considered cash equivalents.

Inventories
- -----------
U.S. inventories are valued at the lower of last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost or
market. Other inventories are valued generally at the lower of first-in,
first-out (FIFO) cost or market.

Long-Lived Assets
- -----------------
Property, plant and equipment are stated on the basis of historical cost less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using a combination of
accelerated and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives of the
assets.

Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods not

                                      F-9


exceeding forty years. The company periodically evaluates the existence of
goodwill impairment on the basis of whether amounts recorded are recoverable
from projected undiscounted cash flows of related businesses. Impairment losses
are valued by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill to its fair value,
determined by the discounted cash flow method.

Impairment losses are recorded on long-lived assets used in operations when
indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated
to be generated by those assets are less than the assets' carrying amount.
Impairment losses were charged to operations in 2001 and 1999 and were included
in "Restructuring and Asset Impairments" in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

Financial Instruments
- ---------------------
The company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and SFAS No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities",
an amendment of SFAS Statement No. 133, on December 31, 2000. As a result of
adoption of SFAS 133 and 138, the company recognizes all derivative financial
instruments, such as interest rate swap agreements, foreign currency options,
and foreign exchange contracts, in the consolidated financial statements at fair
value regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the instrument. The effect
of the adoption of SFAS 133 and 138 did not have a material impact on the
company's consolidated balance sheet, operating results or cash flows.
Subsequent to adoption, changes in the fair value of derivative financial
instruments are either recognized periodically in income or in shareowners'
equity as a component of comprehensive income depending on whether the
derivative financial instrument qualifies for hedge accounting, and if so,
whether it qualifies as a fair value hedge or cash flow hedge. Generally,
changes in fair values of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges are
recorded in income along with the portions of the changes in the fair values of
the hedged items that relate to the hedged risk. Changes in fair values of
derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges, to the extent they are effective
as hedges, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Changes in fair value of
derivatives used as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations are
reported in other comprehensive income as part of the cumulative translation
adjustment. Changes in fair values of derivatives not qualifying as hedges are
reported in income. Hedge ineffectiveness expense of $2.0 million for fiscal
2001 was recorded in cost of sales.

Prior to December 31, 2000, the company also used interest rate swap agreements,
foreign currency options and foreign exchange contracts for hedging purposes.

                                      F-10


The net interest paid or received on the swaps is recognized as interest
expense. Gains resulting from the early termination of interest rate swap
agreements are deferred and amortized as adjustments to interest expense over
the remaining period originally covered by the terminated swap. The company
manages exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates by creating
offsetting positions through the use of forward exchange contracts or currency
options. The company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge
intercompany loans and enters into purchased foreign currency options to hedge
anticipated transactions. Gains and losses on forward exchange contracts are
deferred and recognized as part of the underlying transactions. Changes in the
fair value of options, representing a basket of foreign currencies to hedge
anticipated cross-currency cash flows, are included in cost of sales. The
company does not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
Revenue is recognized when the earning process is complete and the risks and
rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which is generally
considered to have occurred upon shipment of the finished product.

The company enters into arrangements licensing its brand name on specifically
approved products. The licensees pay the company royalties as products are sold,
subject to annual minimum guaranteed amounts. For those arrangements where the
company has continuing involvement with the licensee, royalty revenues are
recognized as they are earned over the life of the agreement. For certain
agreements, where the company has no further continuing involvement with the
licensee, the company recognizes the guaranteed minimum royalties at the time
the arrangement becomes effective and all applicable products have been
approved.

Income Taxes
- ------------
Income tax expense is based on reported earnings before income taxes. Deferred
income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between assets and
liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts
recognized for tax purposes, and are measured by applying enacted tax rates in
effect in years in which the differences are expected to reverse.

Earnings per Share
- ------------------
Basic earnings per share equals net earnings divided by weighted average shares
outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share include the impact of
common stock equivalents using the treasury stock method when the effect is
dilutive.

                                      F-11


Stock-Based Compensation
- ------------------------
The company accounts for its employee stock compensation plans under Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees". Accordingly, no compensation cost is recognized for stock-based
compensation unless the quoted market price of the stock at the grant date is in
excess of the amount the employee must pay to acquire the stock. Pro forma
disclosures of net earnings and earnings per share, as if the fair value based
method of accounting had been applied, are presented in Note J.

Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs
- ------------------------------------
It is the general practice of the company to not bill customers for freight.
Shipping and handling costs associated with inbound freight are included in cost
of sales. Shipping costs associated with outbound freight are included as a
reduction in net sales and amounted to $136 million, $132 million and $123
million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The company records distribution
costs in SG&A expenses and amounted to $75 million, $82 million and $85 million
in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

New Accounting Standards
- ------------------------
In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which
supersedes both SFAS No. 121 and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB
Opinion No. 30, ("APB 30"), for the disposal of a segment of a business (as
previously defined in APB 30). SFAS No. 144 retains the fundamental provisions
in SFAS No. 121 for recognizing and measuring impairment losses on long-lived
assets held for use and long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale, while also
resolving significant implementation issues associated with SFAS No. 121. SFAS
No. 144 retains the basic provisions of APB 30 on how to present discontinued
operations in the income statement but broadens that presentation to include a
component of an entity (rather than a segment of a business). The company will
adopt SFAS 144 effective in fiscal year 2002. Upon adoption, management does not
expect SFAS No. 144 to have a material impact on the company's financial
statements.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangibles". Under
SFAS 142, goodwill is no longer amortized over its estimated useful life but is
subject to at least an annual assessment for impairment applying a fair-value
based test. Additionally, an acquired intangible asset should be separately
recognized if the benefit of the intangible asset is obtained through
contractual or other legal rights or if the intangible asset can be sold,
transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged, regardless of the acquirer's intent
to do so. The

                                      F-12


statements are effective for the company's fiscal year 2002. The company does
not expect any impairment of goodwill upon adoption. Goodwill amortization was
$7.6 million in 2001, $5.3 million in 2000 and $5.5 million in 1999.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 141, "Business Combinations". SFAS 141
supercedes APB Opinion No. 16 by requiring that all business combinations
initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting. SFAS 141 also specifies the types of acquired intangible assets that
are required to be recognized and reported separately from goodwill. The
issuance of SFAS 141 had no impact on the company during 2001 as no business
combinations were initiated after June 30, 2001.

In April 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus on
Issue No. 00-25, "Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration to a
Purchaser of the Vendor's Products or Services ("EITF 00-25"). This issue
addresses the income statement classification of "slotting fees", cooperative
advertising arrangements and "buydowns". The consensus will require that certain
customer promotional payments that are currently classified as marketing
expenses within selling, general and administrative expense on the statement of
operations be classified as a reduction of revenue. The impact of EITF 00-25 on
the consolidated financial statements is expected to result in an adjustment to
net sales of less than 1% of the amounts already reported. The offset to this
reclassification is primarily within advertising expense. The adoption of EITF
00-25 will have no impact on profit from operations, net income or earnings per
share. The company will adopt EITF 00-25, effective January 1, 2002.

Reclassifications
- -----------------
Certain prior year's amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
year presentation.


B. ACQUISITION

In April 2001, the company acquired Contact East, a leading business to business
distributor of mission critical tools and supplies for assembly, testing, and
repair electronics in the United States for $79.3 million. The purchase price
was allocated to the fair market value of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed and resulted in goodwill of $65.1 million, which was being amortized
over a 20 year period.

The aforementioned acquisition was accounted for as a purchase transaction and,
accordingly, the operating results have been included in the company's
consolidated financial statements since

                                      F-13


the date of acquisition. The acquisition did not have a material pro forma
impact on 2001 operations.


C. ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE


Trade receivables are dispersed among a large number of retailers, distributors
and industrial accounts in many countries. Adequate provisions have been
established to cover anticipated credit losses. At December 29, 2001 and
December 30, 2000, allowances for doubtful receivables of $32.3 million and
$41.9 million, respectively, were applied as a reduction of current accounts and
notes receivable. As of December 29, 2001, the company had one customer that
accounted for approximately 10% of its trade receivables.

The company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided interests in
defined pools of accounts and notes receivable. At December 29, 2001, the
defined pools of receivables amounted to $271.7 million. The proceeds from sales
of such eligible receivables, primarily to Qualifying Special Purpose Entities
(QSPE's), in revolving-period securitizations were $81.4 million in 2001 and
$86.7 million in 2000, and these amounts have been deducted from receivables in
the December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 consolidated balance sheets. There
were no gains or losses on these sales. The company is responsible for servicing
and collecting the receivables sold and held in the QSPE's. Any incremental
additional costs related to such servicing and collection efforts are not
significant.


D. INVENTORIES


(Millions of Dollars)                    2001            2000
                                         ----            ----
Finished products                       $308.0         $281.4
Work in process                           49.1           53.8
Raw materials                             53.0           62.9
                                        ------         ------
                                        $410.1         $398.1
                                        ======         ======

Inventories in the amount of $277.0 million at December 29, 2001 and $252.5
million at December 30, 2000 were valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. If
the LIFO method had not been used, inventories would have been $49.9 million and
$84.0 million higher than reported at December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000,
respectively.


E. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(Millions of Dollars)                               2001          2000
                                                    ----          ----

                                      F-14


Land                                             $    24.6    $    25.4
Buildings                                            224.5        218.3
Machinery and equipment                              904.2        913.8
Computer software                                     76.4         74.7
                                                    ------       ------
                                                   1,229.7      1,232.2
Less: accumulated depreciation
  and amortization                                   735.4        728.5
                                                    ------       ------
                                                 $   494.3     $  503.7
                                                    ======       ======

Depreciation and amortization expense for 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $71.5, $75.9
and $75.6 million, respectively. The company currently has two properties
identified as held for sale with a book value of $3.0 million as of December 29,
2001.


F. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES


Goodwill and other intangibles at the end of each fiscal year, net of
accumulated amortization of $88.2 million and $79.0 million, were as follows:

(Millions of Dollars)                                 2001         2000
                                                      ----         ----
Goodwill                                          $   216.2     $  160.4
Other                                                  19.9         15.5
                                                     ------       ------
                                                  $   236.1     $  175.9
                                                     ======       ======

The increase in intangibles is primarily a result of the acquisition of Contact
East during 2001.


G. ACCRUED EXPENSES


(Millions of Dollars)                                 2001         2000
                                                      ----         ----
Payroll and related taxes                          $  30.3       $ 29.7
Insurance                                             27.2         31.3
Restructuring                                         21.2         12.1
Income taxes                                          77.2         54.8
Other                                                124.5        125.9
                                                   -------       ------
                                                   $ 280.4       $253.8
                                                   =======       ======


H. LONG-TERM DEBT AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS


(Millions of Dollars)                                  2001           2000
                                                       ----           ----
Notes payable in 2002                        7.4%    $ 100.0        $ 100.0

                                      F-15


Notes payable in 2004                        5.8%      120.0          120.0
Notes payable in 2007                        4.5%       75.0              -
Industrial Revenue Bonds due in
  varying amounts to 2010                5.8-6.8%       19.6           19.6
ESOP loan guarantees,
  payable in varying
  monthly installments
  through 2009                               6.1%       22.5           27.9
Other, including net swap receivables                  (20.2)         (12.7)
                                                      ------         ------
                                                       316.9          254.8
Less: current maturities                               120.1            6.1
                                                      ------         ------
                                                     $ 196.8        $ 248.7
                                                      ======         ======

The company has unused short and long-term credit arrangements with several
banks to borrow up to $350.0 million at the lower of prime or money market
rates. Of this amount, $100.0 million is long-term. Commitment fees range from
 .06% to .08%. In addition, the company has short-term lines of credit with
numerous foreign banks aggregating $112.8 million, of which $95.5 million was
available at December 29, 2001. Short-term arrangements are reviewed annually
for renewal. Of the long-term and short-term lines, $350.0 million is available
to support the company's commercial paper program. The weighted average interest
rates on short-term borrowings at December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 were
2.3% and 6.5%, respectively.

To manage interest costs and foreign exchange risk, the company maintains a
portfolio of interest rate swap agreements. The portfolio includes currency
swaps that convert $90.5 million of fixed rate United States dollar debt into
4.4% fixed rate Euro debt. The company also has currency swaps that convert
$39.0 million of variable rate United States dollar debt to variable rate Euro
debt (3.4% weighted average rate). See Note I for more information regarding the
company's interest rate and currency swap agreements.

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt for the years 2003 to 2006 are
$7.1 million, $101.0 million, $2.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and
$85.3 million thereafter. Interest paid during 2001, 2000 and 1999 amounted to
$33.4 million, $36.1 million and $30.8 million, respectively.

Commercial paper and Extendible Commercial Notes utilized to support working
capital requirements, were $160.0 million and $187.8 million, as of December 29,
2001 and December 30, 2000, respectively.



                                      F-16




On February 7, 2002 the company refinanced $75.0 million of commercial paper
through the issuance of 5 year notes payable at a fixed interest rate of 4.5%.
This $75.0 million obligation is classified under long-term debt at December 29,
2001.


I. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The company's objectives in using debt related financial instruments are to
obtain the lowest cost source of funds within an acceptable range of variable to
fixed-rate debt proportions and to minimize the foreign exchange risk of
obligations. To meet these objectives the company enters into interest rate swap
and currency swap agreements. A summary of instruments and weighted average
interest rates follows. The weighted average variable pay and receive rates are
based on rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. Variable rates are
generally based on LIBOR or commercial paper rates with no leverage features.


(Millions of Dollars)                                 2001         2000
                                                      ----         ----
Currency swaps                                      $105.3       $112.0
  pay rate                                            4.1%         4.6%
  receive rate                                        4.6%         6.0%
  maturity dates                                 2004-2005    2004-2005


The company uses purchased currency options and forward exchange contracts to
reduce exchange risks arising from cross-border cash flows expected to occur
over the next one year period. In addition, the company enters into forward
exchange contracts to hedge intercompany loans and royalty payments. The
objective of these practices is to minimize the impact of foreign currency
fluctuations on operating results. At December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000,
the company had forward contracts hedging intercompany loans and royalty
payments totaling $20.3 million and $11.3 million, respectively. At December 29,
2001 and December 30, 2000, currency options hedged anticipated transactions
totaling $136.5 million and $174.7 million, respectively. The forward contracts
and options are primarily denominated in Canadian dollars, Australian dollars,
Taiwanese dollars, Israeli Shekels and major European currencies and generally
mature within the next one year period.

The counterparties to these interest rate and currency financial instruments are
major international financial institutions. The company is exposed to credit
risk for net exchanges under these agreements, but not for the notional amounts.
The company considers the risk of default to be remote.

A summary of the carrying values and fair values of the company's financial
instruments at December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 is as follows:



                                      F-17




(Millions of Dollars)                       2001                   2000
                                            ----                   ----
                                    Carrying      Fair     Carrying     Fair
                                      Value      Value        Value    Value
                                       -----     -----        -----   ------
Long-term debt,
  including current portion           $341.0    $346.8       $272.2    $270.5
Currency and
  interest rate swaps                 (24.1)    (27.6)       (17.4)    (19.5)
                                       -----     -----        -----     -----
                                      $316.9    $319.2       $254.8    $251.0
                                       =====     =====        =====     =====


Generally, the carrying value of the debt related financial instruments is
included in the balance sheet in long-term debt. The fair values of long-term
debt are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the company's
marginal borrowing rates. The fair values of foreign currency and interest rate
swap agreements are based on current settlement values. The carrying amount of
cash equivalents and short-term borrowings approximates fair value.


J. CAPITAL STOCK


Earnings per Share Computation
- ------------------------------
The following table reconciles the weighted average shares outstanding used to
calculate basic and diluted earnings per share.


(Millions of Dollars, except              2001            2000           1999
 per share amounts)                       ----            ----           ----
Net earnings                               $158.3         $194.4          $150.0

Basic earnings per share-
  weighted average shares              85,761,275     87,407,282      89,626,424
Dilutive effect of
  employee stock options                1,706,074        260,499         260,177
                                        ---------      ---------       ---------
Diluted earnings per share-
  weighted average shares              87,467,349     87,667,781      89,886,601
                                       ==========     ==========      ==========
Earnings per share:
  Basic                                   $  1.85        $  2.22         $  1.67
  Diluted                                 $  1.81        $  2.22         $  1.67


Common Stock Share Activity
- ---------------------------
The activity in common shares for each year, net of treasury stock, was as
follows:


                                      F-18




                                         2001             2000           1999
                                         ----             ----           ----
Outstanding, beginning of year        85,188,252      88,945,175     88,771,928
Issued                                 1,170,480         557,490      1,139,671
Purchased                             (1,699,985)     (4,314,413)      (966,424)
                                      ----------      ----------     ----------
Outstanding, end of year              84,658,747      85,188,252     88,945,175
                                      ==========      ==========     ==========


Common Stock Reserved
- ---------------------
At December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, the number of shares of common stock
reserved for future issuance under various employee and director stock plans was
as follows:

                                                  2001                   2000
                                                  -----                  ----
Employee Stock Purchase Plan                     3,797,153             4,070,937
Stock Option Plans                              22,284,943            13,129,214
                                                ----------            ----------
                                                26,082,096            17,200,151
                                                ==========            ==========

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
- -------------------------------
Each outstanding share of common stock has one half of a share purchase right.
Each purchase right may be exercised to purchase one two-hundredth of a share of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $220.00,
subject to adjustment. The rights, which do not have voting rights, expire on
March 10, 2006, and may be redeemed by the company at a price of $.01 per right
at any time prior to the tenth day following the public announcement that a
person has acquired beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the outstanding
shares of common stock.

In the event that the company is acquired in a merger or other business
combination transaction, provision shall be made so that each holder of a right
(other than a holder who is a 10%-or-more shareowner) shall have the right to
receive, upon exercise thereof, that number of shares of common stock of the
surviving company having a market value equal to two times the exercise price of
the right. Similarly, if anyone becomes the beneficial owner of more than 10% of
the then outstanding shares of common stock (except pursuant to an offer for all
outstanding shares of common stock which the independent directors have deemed
to be fair and in the best interest of the company), provision will be made so
that each holder of a right (other than a holder who is a 10%-or-more
shareowner) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof,
common stock (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities
of the company) having a market value equal to two times the exercise price of
the right. At December 29, 2001, there were 42,329,374 outstanding rights. There
are 250,000 shares of Series A Junior


                                      F-19



Participating Preferred Stock reserved for issuance in connection with the
rights.

Stock Options and Awards
- ------------------------
The company has stock option plans for salaried employees, key executives and
outside directors of the company. The plans primarily provide for the grant of
stock options, but also permit grants of restricted stock and other awards.
Options are granted at the market price of the company's stock on the date of
grant and have a term of 10 years. Generally, stock options are 50% exercisable
between one and three years from the anniversary of the grant and the remaining
50% are exercisable between two and five years from the anniversary of the
grant.

Information regarding the company's stock option plans is summarized below:




Options outstanding as of December 29, 2001 had exercise prices as follows:
3,312,359 options ranging from $18.56 to $24.97, 4,221,173 options ranging from
$25.13 to $34.62 and 2,322,352 options ranging from $35.23 to $55.98. The
weighted average remaining contractual life of these options is 7.7 years.

Stanley Common Stock Equity Hedge
- ---------------------------------
The company enters into equity hedges, in the form of equity forwards on Stanley
common shares, to offset the dilutive effect on earnings per share of
in-the-money stock options and to reduce potential cash outflow for the
repurchase of the company's stock to offset stock option exercises. The
counterparties to these


                                      F-20




forward contracts are major U.S. financial institutions with whom the risk of
non-performance is remote. Interim quarterly settlements are in shares of stock,
not cash, and are accounted for within equity. When the price of Stanley stock
has appreciated since the last quarterly interim settlement, the company
receives Stanley common shares from the counterparties. When the price of
Stanley stock has depreciated since the last quarterly interim settlement, the
company delivers Stanley common stock from treasury shares to the
counterparties.

The notional amount of the equity forward contracts at December 29, 2001 is $212
million. For the years ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000, and January
1, 2000 the company received 1,432,264 shares of common stock valued at $67.0
million, delivered 25,166 shares of common stock valued at $.3 million, and
delivered 227,710 shares of common stock valued at $8.0 million, respectively,
under the equity hedge program.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan
- ----------------------------
The Employee Stock Purchase Plan enables substantially all employees in the
United States, Canada and Belgium to subscribe at any time to purchase shares of
common stock on a monthly basis at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of
the shares on the first day of the plan year ($17.32 per share for fiscal year
2001 purchases) or 85% of the fair market value of the shares on the last
business day of each month. A maximum of 6,000,000 shares are authorized for
subscription. During 2001, 2000 and 1999 shares totaling 273,784, 100,369, and
127,447, respectively, were issued under the plan at average prices of $17.32,
$20.82 and $22.85 per share, respectively.

Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
- ------------------------------
The Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (LTSIP) provides for the granting of awards
to senior management employees for achieving company performance measures. The
Plan is administered by the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board
of Directors consisting of non-employee directors. Awards are generally payable
in shares of common stock as directed by the Committee. Shares totaling 10,742,
41,532, and 46,746 were issued in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. LTSIP
expense was $.1 million in 2001, $.8 million in 2000 and $.3 million in 1999.

Stock Compensation Plan
- -----------------------
The company accounts for stock option grants under its stock-based compensation
plans and stock purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan in accordance
with APB No. 25. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for stock
option grants since the options have exercise prices equal to the market value
of the company's common stock at the date of grant. If compensation cost for the
company's stock-based compensation


                                      F-21




plans had been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates consistent
with the method prescribed by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation", the company's net earnings and earnings per share would have been
adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated below:


                                        2001        2000       1999
                                        ----        ----       ----
Pro forma net earnings
  (in millions)                       $154.5      $173.2     $141.4

Pro forma earnings per share:
  Basic                              $  1.80     $  1.98    $  1.58
  Diluted                            $  1.77     $  1.97    $  1.57


Pro forma compensation cost relating to the stock options is recognized over the
six month vesting period for 2000 and prior grants and over the 3.6 year
weighted average vesting period for 2001 grants. The fair value of each stock
option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively: dividend yield of 2.6%, 3.8% and 3.5%;
expected volatility of 40% for 2001, 2000 and 1999; risk-free interest rates of
4.8%, 6.1% and 7.0%, and expected lives of 7 years. The weighted average fair
value of stock options granted in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $14.31, $8.15 and
$9.92, respectively. As discussed previously under the caption "Stanley Common
Stock Equity Hedge", the impact of the equity forward contract has been included
in the basic shares outstanding calculation.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan compensation cost is recognized in the fourth
quarter when the purchase price for the following fiscal year is established.
The fair value of the employees' purchase rights under the Employee Stock
Purchase Plan was estimated using the following assumptions for 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively: dividend yield of 3.0%, 5.2% and 3.5%, expected volatility
of 40% for 2001, 2000 and 1999; risk-free interest rates of 2.0%, 6.0% and 6.4%,
and expected lives of one year. The weighted average fair value of those
purchase rights granted in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $8.48, $5.68 and $10.09,
respectively.


K. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss at the end of each fiscal year was as
follows:


(Millions of Dollars)                    2001            2000            1999
                                         ----            ----            ----
Currency translation adjustment         ($136.3)       ($123.4)         ($98.8)
Minimum pension liability                  (2.9)          (1.1)           (0.4)
Cash flow hedge effectiveness               0.3              -               -
                                       ---------      ---------       ---------
                                        ($138.9)       ($124.5)         ($99.2)
                                        ========       ========        ========



                                      F-22



L. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS


Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
- ------------------------------------
Substantially all U.S. employees may contribute from 1% to 15% of their salary
to a tax deferred savings plan. Employees elect where to invest their own
contributions. The company contributes an amount equal to one-half of the
employee contribution up to the first 7% of their salary, all of which is
invested in the company's common stock. The amounts in 2001, 2000 and 1999 under
this matching arrangement were $5.8 million, $7.0 million and $7.1 million,
respectively.

The company also provides a non-contributory benefit for U.S. salaried and
non-union hourly employees, called the Cornerstone plan. Under this benefit
arrangement, the company contributes amounts ranging from 3% to 9% of employee
compensation based on age. Approximately 3,000 U.S. employees receive an
additional average 1.5% contribution actuarially designed to replace the pension
benefits curtailed in 2001. Contributions under the Cornerstone plan were $12.7
million in 2001, $13.0 million in 2000, and $13.9 million in 1999. Assets of the
Cornerstone defined contribution plan are invested in equity securities and
bonds.

Shares of the company's common stock held by the ESOP were purchased with the
proceeds of external borrowings in 1989 and borrowings from the company in 1991.
The external ESOP borrowings are guaranteed by the company and are included in
long-term debt. Shareowners' equity reflects both the internal and the external
borrowing arrangements.

Unallocated shares are released from the trust based on current period debt
principle and interest payments as a percentage of total future debt principle
and interest payments. These released shares along with allocated dividends,
dividends on unallocated shares acquired with the 1991 loan, and shares
purchased on the open market are used to fund employee contributions, employer
contributions and dividends earned on participant account balances. Dividends on
unallocated shares acquired with the 1989 loan are used only for debt service.

Net ESOP activity recognized is based on total debt service and share purchase
requirements less employee contributions and dividends on ESOP shares. The
company's net ESOP activity resulted in expense of $0.1 million in 2001, $8.6
million in 2000 and $10.7 million in 1999.


                                      F-23




Dividends on ESOP shares, which are charged to shareowners' equity as declared,
were $13.6 million in 2001, $14.2 million in 2000 and $14.7 million in 1999.
Interest costs incurred by the ESOP on external debt for 2001, 2000 and 1999
were $1.5 million, $1.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively. Both allocated
and unallocated ESOP shares are treated as outstanding for purposes of computing
earnings per share. As of December 29, 2001 the number of ESOP shares allocated
to participant accounts was 6,001,410 and the number of unallocated shares was
7,637,039. The fair value of the unallocated ESOP shares at December 29, 2001
was $355.3 million.

Pension And Other Benefit Plans
- -------------------------------
The company sponsors pension plans covering most domestic hourly and executive
employees, and approximately 2,250 foreign employees. Benefits are generally
based on salary and years of service, except for collective bargaining employees
whose benefits are based on a stated amount for each year of service.

In 2001, the company curtailed the U.S. salaried and non-union hourly plan with
respect to eliminating the impact from future salary increases on benefits,
resulting in a curtailment gain of $29.3 million. The company expects to settle
the pension obligations to participants in 2002.

The company's funding policy for its defined benefit plans is to contribute
amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and
future benefits in accordance with federal law and other regulations. Plan
assets are invested in equity securities, bonds, real estate and money market
instruments. If the plans are terminated or merged with another plan within
three years following a change in control of the company, any excess plan assets
are to be applied to increase the benefits of all participants.

The company contributes to multi-employer plans for certain collective
bargaining U.S. employees. In addition, various other defined contribution plans
are sponsored worldwide.

(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----
Multi-employer plan expense            $  .5         $  .5        $  .2
Defined contribution plan expense      $ 3.3         $ 2.3        $ 1.9


The components of net periodic pension cost are as follows:


                                      F-24







The company provides medical and dental benefits for certain retired employees
in the United States. In addition, domestic employees who retire from active
service are eligible for life insurance benefits. Net periodic postretirement
benefit expense was $1.8 million in 2001, $1.7 million in 2000 and $2.3 million
in 1999.

The changes in the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, fair
value of plan assets as well as amounts recognized in the consolidated balance
sheets, are shown below:





                                      F-25







The weighted average annual assumed rate of increase in the per-capita cost of
covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) is assumed to be 12.0% for
2002 reducing gradually to 6% by 2012 and remaining at that level thereafter. A
one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate would
have increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $.6 million
at December 29, 2001 and net periodic postretirement benefit cost for fiscal
2001 by $.1 million.


                                      F-26




M. OTHER COSTS AND EXPENSES


Interest-net for 2001, 2000 and 1999 included interest income of $6.7, $7.5 and
$5.4 million, respectively.

Other-net in 2001 includes a pre-tax nonrecurring pension curtailment gain of
$29.3 million, or $0.22 per share, net of taxes. Other-net in 1999 includes a
gain on the termination of a cross-currency financial instrument of $11.4
million ($.08 per share).

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $43.3 million in
2001, $48.7 million in 2000 and $50.2 million in 1999.


N. RESTRUCTURING AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS

In 2001, the company undertook new initiatives to reduce its cost structure and
executed several business repositionings intended to improve its
competitiveness. These actions have or will result in the closure of thirteen
facilities and a net employment reduction of approximately 2,200 production,
selling and administrative people. As a result, the company recorded $18.3
million and $54.1 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges in the
first and fourth quarters, respectively. Reserves were established for these
initiatives consisting of $54.8 million for severance, $10.4 million for asset
impairment charges and $7.2 million for other exit costs. These initiatives are
expected to be significantly completed by the middle of 2003.

In 1999, the company completed an evaluation of the remaining reserves that were
established in 1997 for restructuring initiatives and determined that certain
projects would be cancelled in order to reapply company resources to higher
payback areas. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 1999, the company reversed
$62 million of reserves established for such actions.

Also in 1999, new projects were approved to achieve improved cost productivity.
These new initiatives included facility closures and the related relocation of
production, a reduction in force in administrative functions and the outsourcing
of non-core activities as well as the related asset impairments. The company
recorded restructuring charges related to these new initiatives of $40 million,
of which $30 million related to severance, $8 million related to asset
write-downs and $2 million related to other exit costs.

In 2000, the company completed the restructuring initiatives announced in 1997
and 1999 and will be incurring $2.0 million of certain run-off expenditures,
primarily related to non-cancelable


                                      F-27




leases over the next two years.

At December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, restructuring and asset impairment
reserve balances were $38.5 million and $19.1 million, of which $5.8 million and
$3.3 million relates to the impairment of assets, respectively. The December 29,
2001 balance relates primarily to 2001 fourth quarter initiatives.

As of December 29, 2001, 66 manufacturing and distribution facilities have been
closed as a result of the restructuring initiatives since 1997. In 2001, 2000,
and 1999, approximately 2,100, 900, and 2,300 employees have been terminated as
a result of restructuring initiatives, respectively. Severance payments of $41.7
million, $29.1 million, and $44.4 million and other exit payments of $3.4
million, $3.1 million, and $17.0 million were made in 2001, 2000, and 1999,
respectively. Write-offs of impaired assets were $7.9 million, $7.0 million, and
$13.2 million in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.


O. BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA

The company operates worldwide in two reportable business segments: Tools and
Doors. The Tools segment includes carpenters, mechanics, pneumatic and hydraulic
tools as well as tool sets. The Doors segment includes commercial and
residential doors, both automatic and manual, as well as closet doors and
systems, home decor and door and consumer hardware.


BUSINESS SEGMENTS
(Millions of Dollars)                 2001          2000         1999
                                      ----          ----         ----
NET SALES
Tools                              $ 2,022.1     $ 2,142.5    $ 2,116.2
Doors                                  602.3         606.4        635.6
                                      ------        ------       ------
Consolidated                       $ 2,624.4     $ 2,748.9    $ 2,751.8
                                      ======        ======       ======
OPERATING PROFIT
Tools                              $   265.6     $   285.7    $   248.1
Doors                                   63.8          55.1         41.7
                                       -----         -----        -----
                                       329.4         340.8        289.8
Restructuring charges, asset
  Impairments, and transition
  and other costs                     (72.4)             -       (33.6)
Interest-net                          (25.6)        (27.1)       (27.9)
Other-net                                5.3        (20.0)          2.5
                                       -----         -----        -----
Earnings before income taxes       $   236.7     $   293.7    $   230.8
                                       =====         =====        =====

SEGMENT ASSETS


                                      F-28



(Millions of Dollars)                 2001          2000         1999
                                      ----          ----         ----
Tools                              $ 1,615.8     $ 1,502.4    $ 1,455.1
Doors                                  318.0         260.3        306.4
                                      ------        ------       ------
                                     1,933.8       1,762.7      1,761.5

Corporate assets                       121.9         122.1        129.1
                                      ------        ------       ------
Consolidated                       $ 2,055.7     $ 1,884.8    $ 1,890.6
                                      ======        ======       ======

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Tools                              $    59.8     $    44.5    $    90.2
Doors                                   13.3          19.9         12.7
                                      ------        ------       ------
Consolidated                       $    73.1     $    64.4    $   102.9
                                       =====         =====        =====

DEPRECIATION AND
AMORTIZATION
Tools                               $   69.0     $    66.2    $    70.1
Doors                                   13.9          17.1         15.5
                                      ------        ------       ------
Consolidated                        $   82.9     $    83.3    $    85.6
                                       =====         =====        =====


The company assesses the performance of its reportable business segments using
operating profit, which follows the same accounting policies as those described
in Note A. Operating profit excludes interest-net, other-net, and income tax
expense. In addition, operating profit excludes restructuring and asset
impairments, restructuring-related transition costs associated with the
company's restructuring plans and other non-recurring costs. Corporate and
shared expenses are allocated to each segment. Sales between segments are not
material. Segment assets primarily include accounts receivable, inventory, other
current assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other
miscellaneous assets. Corporate assets and unallocated assets are cash, deferred
income taxes and certain other assets. Geographic net sales and long-lived
assets are attributed to the geographic regions based on the geographic location
of the Stanley subsidiary.

Sales to one customer in both the Tools and Doors segments were approximately
18%, 17% and 15% of consolidated net sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
(Millions of Dollars)                 2001         2000          1999
                                      ----         ----          ----
NET SALES
United States                      $ 1,885.2     $ 1,984.0    $ 1,962.5


                                      F-29



(Millions of Dollars)                 2001          2000         1999
                                      ----          ----         ----
Other Americas                         185.4         203.3        199.0
Europe                                 456.7         459.3        493.2
Asia                                    97.1         102.3         97.1
                                      ------        ------       ------
Consolidated                       $ 2,624.4     $ 2,748.9    $ 2,751.8
                                      ======        ======       ======
LONG-LIVED ASSETS
United States                      $   593.5     $   458.3    $   442.1
Other Americas                          28.5          31.3         28.1
Europe                                 254.1         266.7        286.3
Asia                                    38.2          34.2         36.7
Other                                      -             -          6.4
                                      ------        ------       ------
Consolidated                       $   914.3     $   790.5    $   799.6
                                      ======        ======       ======


P. INCOME TAXES

Significant components of the company's deferred tax liabilities and assets as
of the end of each fiscal year were as follows:


(Millions of Dollars)                                 2001         2000
                                                      ----         ----
Deferred tax liabilities:
     Depreciation                                  $  78.0      $  82.4
     Other                                             5.8         16.4
                                                     -----        -----
Total deferred tax liabilities                        83.8         98.8
                                                     -----        -----
Deferred tax assets:
     Employee benefit plans                           16.5         26.4
     Doubtful accounts                                10.8         16.1
     Inventories                                       7.7         13.8
     Amortization of intangibles                      14.7         16.4
     Accruals                                         12.8         13.9
     Restructuring charges                            14.9         20.7
     Foreign and state operating loss
     carryforwards                                    21.0         16.1
     Other                                             0.8          6.9
                                                     -----        -----
                                                      99.2        130.3
Valuation allowance                                 (21.0)       (16.1)
                                                     -----        -----
Total deferred tax assets                             78.2        114.2
                                                     -----        -----
Net deferred tax (liabilities) asset              $ ( 5.6)      $  15.4
                                                     =====        =====

Valuation allowances reduced the deferred tax asset attributable to foreign and
state loss carryforwards to the amount that, based upon all available evidence,
is more likely than not to be


                                      F-30




realized. Reversal of the valuation allowance is contingent upon the recognition
of future taxable income and capital gains in specific foreign countries and
specific states, or changes in circumstances which cause the recognition of the
benefits to become more likely than not.

Income tax expense consisted of the following:


(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----
Current:
     Federal                         $  24.1       $  40.1      $  25.3
     Foreign                            19.6          16.7         13.7
     State                               5.9           7.0          5.6
                                       -----         -----        -----
     Total current                      49.6          63.8         44.6
                                       -----         -----        -----
Deferred (benefit):
     Federal                            33.4          34.7         32.1
     Foreign                            (7.0)         (2.9)          .8
     State                               2.4           3.7          3.3
                                       -----         -----        -----
Total deferred (benefit)                28.8          35.5         36.2
                                       -----        ------        -----
Total                                $  78.4       $  99.3      $  80.8
                                       =====         =====        =====


Income taxes paid during 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $41.4 million and $59.7
million and $22.4 million, respectively.

The reconciliation of federal income tax at the statutory federal rate to income
tax at the effective rate was as follows:


(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----
Tax at statutory rate                $  82.8       $ 102.8      $  80.8
State income taxes,
     net of federal benefits             5.4           6.7          5.8
Difference between foreign
     and federal income tax            (15.9)         (7.0)        (4.5)
Other-net                                6.1          (3.2)        (1.3)
                                       -----         -----        -----
Income taxes                         $  78.4       $  99.3      $  80.8
                                       =====         =====        =====


The components of earnings before income taxes consisted of the following:


(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----
United States                         $212.9        $267.5       $201.0
Foreign                                 23.8          26.2         29.8
                                       -----         -----        -----


                                      F-31



(Millions of Dollars)                   2001          2000         1999
                                        ----          ----         ----

Total pretax earnings                 $236.7        $293.7       $230.8
                                       =====         =====        =====

Undistributed foreign earnings of $62.2 million at December 29, 2001 are
considered to be invested indefinitely or will be remitted substantially free of
additional tax. Accordingly, no provision has been made for taxes that might be
payable upon remittance of such earnings, nor is it practicable to determine the
amount of this liability.


Q. COMMITMENTS

Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases, principally
related to facilities, vehicles, machinery and equipment, in millions of
dollars, as of December 29, 2001 were $13.6 in 2002, $21.6 in 2003, $20.4 in
2004, $4.9 in 2005, $3.2 in 2006 and $11.2 thereafter. Minimum payments have not
been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $4.1 million due in the future under
noncancelable subleases. Rental expense for operating leases amounted to $36.8
million in 2001, $46.3 million in 2000 and $42.7 million in 1999.

The company has entered into certain outsourcing arrangements, principally
related to information systems, telecommunications and freight administration,
which expire at various dates through 2009. The future estimated minimum
payments under these commitments, in millions of dollars, as of December 29,
2001 were $12.9 in 2002, $9.6 in 2003, $8.0 in 2004, $7.7 in 2005, $7.7 in 2006
and $15.7 thereafter.


R. CONTINGENCIES

In the normal course of business, the company is involved in various lawsuits
and claims. In addition, the company is a party to a number of proceedings
before federal and state regulatory agencies relating to environmental
remediation. Also, the company, along with many other companies, has been named
as a potentially responsible party (PRP) in a number of administrative
proceedings for the remediation of various waste sites, including nine active
Superfund sites. Current laws potentially impose joint and several liability
upon each PRP. In assessing its potential liability at these sites, the company
has considered the following: the solvency of the other PRPs, whether
responsibility is being disputed, the terms of existing agreements, experience
at similar sites, and the fact that the company's volumetric contribution at
these sites is relatively small.

The company's policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and remediation
costs for identified sites when it is probable that a


                                      F-32




liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
The amount of liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently
available facts with respect to each individual site and includes such factors
as existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior
experience in remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not
take into account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As
assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded
are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal
information that becomes available. As of December 29, 2001, the company had
reserves of $14.6 million, primarily for remediation activities associated with
company-owned properties as well as for Superfund sites.

The environmental liability for certain sites that have cash payments that are
fixed or reliably determinable have been discounted at a rate of 6%. As of
December 29, 2001, the discounted and undiscounted amount of the liability
relative to these sites is $8,228,000 and $6,332,000, respectively. The payments
relative to these sites are expected to be $4,919,000 in 2002, $1,956,000 in
2003, $439,000 in 2004, $429,000 in 2005, $424,000 in 2006 and $4,576,000
thereafter.

The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates.
Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional
technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs to be
incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent
uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures. Subject to the imprecision in
estimating future contingent liability costs, the company does not expect that
any sum it may have to pay in connection with these matters in excess of the
amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.


S. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On February 8, 2002, the company filed a Form S-4 Registration Statement with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for approval of a reorganization to
reincorporate the company in Bermuda.




                                     *******


                                      F-33




                               SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)



(A)
   First quarter restructuring and asset impairment charges include $17 million
   for severance and $1 million for other exit costs. First quarter results also
   include a pension curtailment gain of $29 million, and $11 million in special
   charges related to several business repositionings and a series of
   initiatives at Mac Tools. The $11 million was classified in the statement of
   operations as follows: $6 million in cost of sales, $3 million in selling
   general and administrative expenses and $2 million in other-net.

(B)
   Third quarter results include $5 million of special charges for
   non-recurring severance recorded in selling, general and
   administrative expenses offset by $5 million in special credits for one-time
   tax benefits.

(C)
   Fourth quarter restructuring and asset impairment charges include $38 million
   for severance, $10 million for asset impaiments, and $6 million for other
   exit costs. Also included in fourth quarter results is a $6 million special
   charge to cost of sales for disposition of inventory for discontinued
   manufacturing plants and SKU's.


                                      F-34




EXHIBIT INDEX
THE STANLEY WORKS


(3)   (i)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2,
1999)

      (ii)  The Stanley Works By-laws as amended October 17, 2001.

(4)   (i)   Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1986 between the company and State
Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, defining the rights of
holders of 7-3/8% Notes Due December 15, 2002 and 5.75% Notes due March 1, 2004
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registration Statement No. 33-4344
filed March 27, 1986)

      (ii)  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1992 between
the company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4) (c) to Registration Statement No.
33-46212 filed July 21, 1992)

            (a) Certificate of Designated Officers establishing Terms of 7-3/8%
Notes Due December 15, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(ii) to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 7, 1992)

            (b) Certificate of Designated Officers establishing Terms of 5.75%
Notes due March 1, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(ii)(a) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 1999)

      (iii) Rights Agreement, dated January 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit (4)(i) to Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 1996)

      (iv)  Facility A (364 Day) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 17, 2001,
with the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent.

      (v)   Facility B (Five Year) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 17,
2001, with the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent.

(10)  (i)   Executive Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1987). Omitted
pursuant to the Instruction to item 601(10)(iii) of Regulation S-K and Rule
12b-31 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are copies of ten other
agreements between the registrant and the following named officers, each of
which agreement is substantially identical to Exhibit 10(i) in all material
respects except as to the individual party thereto and the identification of his
position with the registrant: John Aden, Bruce H. Beatt, Hubert J. Davis, Jr.,
James E. Finley, William D. Hill, Kenneth O. Lewis, James M. Loree,


                                      E-1




Mark J. Mathieu, Donald R. McIlnay and Paul W. Russo.*

      (ii) Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors as amended
December 11, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2000.)*

      (iii) 1988 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended January 3, 1998)*

      (iv) Management Incentive Compensation Plan effective January 4, 1998
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)*

      (v) Deferred Compensation Plan for Participants in Stanley's Management
Incentive Plan effective January 1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(v) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 1995)*

      (vi) Supplemental Retirement and Account Value Plan for Salaried Employees
of The Stanley Works amended and restated as of June 30, 2001*

      (vii) Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between the
Stanley Account Value Plan Trust, acting by and through Citibank, N.A. as
trustee under the trust agreement for the Stanley Account Value Plan, for
$41,050,763 aggregate principal amount of 6.07% Senior ESOP Guaranteed Notes Due
December 31, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)

      (viii) New 1991 Loan Agreement, dated June 30, 1998, between The Stanley
Works, as lender, and Citibank, N.A. as trustee under the trust agreement for
the Stanley Account Value Plan, to refinance the 1991 Salaried Employee ESOP
Loan and the 1991 Hourly ESOP Loan and their related promissory notes
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)

      (ix) (a)Supplemental Executive Retirement Program amended and restated and
effective September 19, 2001 *

           (b) Amendment to John M. Trani's supplemental Executive Retirement
Program, dated September 17, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(ix)(b) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

      (x) (a) The Stanley Works Non-Employee Directors' Benefit Trust Agreement
dated December 27, 1989 and amended as of January 1, 1991 by and between The
Stanley Works and Fleet National Bank, as successor trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit (10)(xvii)(a) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for year
ended



                                      E-2




December 29, 1990)

          (b) Stanley Works Employees' Benefit Trust Agreement dated December
27, 1989 and amended as of January 1, 1991 by and between The Stanley Works and
Fleet National Bank, as successor trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(xvii)(b) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 29,
1990)

      (xi) Restated and Amended 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(xiii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 28, 1996)

      (xii) Master Leasing Agreement, dated September 1, 1992 between BLC
Corporation and The Stanley Works (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to
the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 1992)

      (xiii) The Stanley Works Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as
amended December 18, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xvii) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)

      (xiv) Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2000 between The Stanley
Works and John M. Trani (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to Current
Report on Form 8-K dated June 23, 2000)*

      (xv) 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
99.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-42582 filed July 28, 2000)*

      (xvi) 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
99.1 to Registration Statement No. 333-64326 filed July 2, 2001).*

      (xvii) Agreement, dated May 7, 1999 between The Stanley Works and Ron
Newcomb (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1999)*

      (xviii) Agreement, dated June 9, 1999 between The Stanley Works and James
Loree (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1999)*

      (xix) Engagement Letter, dated January 2, 2001 between The Stanley Works
and Paul Isabella *

      (xx) Agreement, dated September 12, 2000 between The Stanley Works and
Bruce H. Beatt (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 (xxii) of the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2000).*

      (xxi) Agreement, dated October 6, 2000 between Stanley Works Inc., Stanley
Europe BVBA, Stanley Atlantic Inc. and Mr. Stef


                                      E-3




G.H. Kranendijk (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 (xxiii) of the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2000).*

      (xxii) (a) Note Purchase Agreement, dated February 7, 2002, by and between
The Stanley Works and BNP Paribas.

             (b) Auction Market Preferred Stock Procurement Agreement, dated
February 7, 2002 by and between The Stanley Works and BNP Paribas.

             (c) Auction Market Preferred Stock Voting Agreement, dated February
7, 2002, by and between The Stanley Works and BNP Paribas.

             (d) Auction Market Preferred Stock Subscription Agreement, dated
February 4, 2002 by and between Stanley Logistics, Inc. and The Stanley Works.

             (e) Auction Market Preferred Stock Investment Agreement, dated
February 7, 2002 by and among The Stanley Works and Stanley Logistics, Inc. for
the benefit of BNP Paribas.

(11)  Statement re: computation of per share earnings (the information required
to be presented in this exhibit appears in Note J to the company's Consolidated
Financial Statements set forth in the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year
ended December 29, 2001)

(12)  Statement re: computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

(21)  Subsidiaries of Registrant

(23)  Consent of Independent Auditors

(24)  Power of Attorney

(99)  Policy on Confidential Proxy Voting and Independent Tabulation and
Inspection of Elections as adopted by The Board of Directors October 23, 1991
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit (28)(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 1991)




* Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement


                                      E-4



