
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K WITH ITEM 405 CHECKED-OFF ON COVER




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT

(Mark One)

  X  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2000

_____________ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ___________________ to ______________

                             COMMISSION FILE 1-5224

                                THE STANLEY WORKS
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

              CONNECTICUT                        06-0548860
  (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF             (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
  INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)           IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)

          1000 STANLEY DRIVE
       NEW BRITAIN, CONNECTICUT                     06053
(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)         (ZIP CODE)

                                 (860) 225-5111
                         (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER)
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                            NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
        TITLE OF EACH CLASS                  ON WHICH REGISTERED
   Common Stock--Par Value $2.50 Per Share   New York Stock Exchange
                                              Pacific Exchange

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

                   Yes  X                  No
                      -----                  ----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [x].

The aggregate market value of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share, held by
non-affiliates (based upon the closing sale price on the New York Stock
Exchange) on February 16, 2001 was approximately $2.1 billion. As of February
16, 2001, there were 85,665,115 shares of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per
share, outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended December 30,
2000 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II. Portions of the
definitive Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2001, filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A, are incorporated by reference into Part III.




                                    FORM 10-K

                                     Part I

     Item 1.   Business

     1(a) General Development of Business. (i) General. The Stanley Works
("Stanley" or the "company") was founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and
incorporated in 1852. Stanley is a worldwide producer of tools and door products
for professional, industrial and consumer use. Stanley(R)is a brand recognized
around the world for quality and value.

     In 2000, Stanley had net sales of $2.749 billion and employed approximately
15,500 people worldwide. The company's principal executive office is located at
1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is
(860) 225-5111.

(ii) Restructuring Activities. In 2000, the company completed the restructuring
initiatives announced in 1997 and 1999 and will only be incurring certain
run-off expenditures related thereto over the next few years. In 1999, the
company completed an evaluation of the remaining reserves that were established
in 1997 for restructuring initiatives and determined that certain projects would
be cancelled in order to reapply company resources to higher payback areas.
Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 1999, the company reversed $62 million of
reserves established for such actions. Net reserves of $18 million, $12 million
for severance, $2 million for asset write-downs and $4 million for environmental
remediation and other exit costs were remaining at the end of 1999 to be
utilized for remaining costs associated with projects initiated, however, not
completed. In 2000, severance of $10 million, asset write-downs of $2 million,
and payments for other exit costs of $2 million reduced these reserves to $4
million by year-end.

In 1999, new projects were approved to achieve improved cost productivity. These
new initiatives included facility closures and the related relocation of
production, a reduction in force in administrative functions and the outsourcing
of non-core activities as well as the related asset impairments. The company
recorded restructuring charges related to these new initiatives of $40 million,
of which $30 million related to severance, $8 million related to asset
write-downs and $2 million related to environmental remediation and other exit
costs. In 2000, severance of $19 million, asset write-downs of $5 million and
payments for other exit costs of $1 million reduced these reserves to $15
million by year end.

To date the company has closed 54 facilities and reduced employment by
approximately 6,200 people related to all restructuring initiatives.




     1(b) Financial Information About Segments. Financial information regarding
the company's business segments is incorporated herein by reference from pages
32, 33 and 36 of the company's Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended
December 30, 2000.

     1(c) Narrative Description of Business. The company's operations are
classified into two business segments: Tools and Doors.

     Tools. The Tools segment manufactures and markets carpenters, mechanics,
pneumatic and hydraulic tools as well as tool sets. These products are
distributed directly to retailers (including home centers, mass merchants and
retail lumber yards) and end users as well as through third party distributors.
Carpenters tools include hand tools such as measuring instruments, planes,
hammers, knives and blades, screwdrivers, saws, garden tools, chisels, boring
tools, masonry, tile and drywall tools, as well as electronic stud sensors,
levels, alignment tools and elevation measuring systems. The company markets its
carpenters tools under the Stanley(R), FatMax(tm), MaxGrip(tm), Powerlock(R),
IntelliTools(R), Contractor Grade(tm), Dynagrip(R), AccuScape(tm) and
Goldblatt(R) brands.

          Mechanics tools include consumer, industrial and professional
mechanics hand tools, including wrenches, sockets, electronic diagnostic tools,
tool boxes and high-density industrial storage and retrieval systems. Mechanics
tools are marketed under the Stanley(R), Proto(R), Mac Tools(R), Husky(R),
Jensen(R), Vidmar(R), ZAG(R) and Blackhawk(tm) brands.

          Pneumatic tools include BOSTITCH(R) fastening tools and fasteners
(nails and staples) used for construction, remodeling, furniture making, pallet
manufacturing and consumer use and pneumatic air tools marketed under the
Stanley(R) brand (these are high performance, precision assembly tools,
controllers and systems for tightening threaded fasteners used chiefly by
vehicle manufacturers).

          Hydraulic tools include Stanley(R) hand-held hydraulic tools used by
contractors, utilities, railroads and public works as well as LaBounty(R)
mounted demolition hammers and compactors designed to work on skid steer
loaders, mini-excavators, backhoes and large excavators.

     Doors. The Doors segment manufactures and markets commercial and
residential doors, both automatic and manual, as well as closet doors and
systems, home decor and door and consumer hardware. Products in the Doors
segment include residential insulated steel, reinforced fiberglass and wood
entrance door systems, vinyl patio doors, mirrored closet doors and closet
organizing systems, automatic doors as well as related door hardware products
ranging from hinges, hasps, bolts and latches to shelf brackets and lock sets.
Door products are marketed under the Stanley(R), Magic-Door(R), Welcome
Watch(R), Stanley-Acmetrack(tm), Monarch(tm) and Acme(R) brands and are



sold directly to end users and retailers as well as through third party
distributors.

     Competition. The company competes on the basis of its reputation for
product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service and
strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines and its emphasis
on product innovation.

     The company encounters active competition in all of its businesses from
both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and
services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. The
company has a large number of competitors; however, aside from a small number of
competitors in the consumer hand tool and consumer hardware business, who
produce a range of products somewhat comparable to the company's, the majority
of its competitors compete only with respect to one or more individual products
within a particular line. The company believes that it is the largest
manufacturer of hand tools in the world featuring a broader line than any other
toolmaker. The company also believes that it is the leader in the manufacture
and sale of pneumatic fastening tools and related fasteners to the construction,
furniture and pallet industries as well as the leading manufacturer of hand-held
hydraulic tools used for heavy construction, railroads, utilities and public
works. In the Doors segment, the company believes that it is a U.S. leader in
the manufacture and sale of insulated steel residential entrance doors,
commercial hardware products, mirrored closet doors and hardware for sliding,
folding and pocket doors and the U.S. leader in the manufacture, sale and
installation of power operated sliding doors.

     Customers. A substantial portion of the company's products are sold through
home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the U.S. In 2000,
approximately 17% of the company's consolidated sales in the Tools and Doors
segments collectively were to Home Depot. Because a consolidation of retailers
in the home center and mass merchant distribution channel is occurring, these
customers constitute a growing percent of the company's sales and are important
to the company's operating results. While this consolidation and the domestic
and international expansion of these large retailers provide the company with
opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual
customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential volume loss. The
loss of Home Depot as well as certain of the other larger home centers as
customers would have a material adverse effect on each of the company's business
segments until either such customers are replaced or the company makes the
necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business.

     Despite the trend toward customer consolidation, the company has a
diversified customer base and is seeking to broaden its customer base further in
each business segment by identifying and seeking new channels and customers that
it does not currently serve.




     Raw Materials. The company's products are manufactured of steel and other
metals, wood and plastic. The raw materials required are available from a number
of sources at competitive prices and the company has multi-year contracts with
many of its key suppliers. The company has experienced no difficulties in
obtaining supplies in recent periods.

     Backlog. At February 3, 2001, the company had $177 million in unfilled
orders compared with approximately $167 million in unfilled orders at February
5, 2000. All these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the
current fiscal year. Most customers place orders for immediate shipment and as a
result, the company produces primarily for inventory, rather than to fill
specific orders.

     Patents and Trademarks. Neither business segment is dependent, to any
significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions and the loss
of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material
adverse effect on either business segment. The company owns numerous patents,
none of which are material to the company's operations as a whole. These patents
expire from time to time over the next 20 years. The company holds licenses,
franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate is
material to the company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and
concessions vary in duration from one to 20 years.

     The company has numerous trademarks that are utilized in its businesses
worldwide. The STANLEY(R) and STANLEY (in a notched rectangle)(R) trademarks are
material to both business segments. These well-known trademarks enjoy a
reputation for quality and value and are among the world's most trusted brand
names. The company's tagline, "Make Something Great(tm)" is the centerpiece of
the company's brand strategy for both segments. In the Tools segment, the
Bostitch(R), Powerlock(R), Tape Rule Case Design (Powerlock)(R), LaBounty(R),
MAC Tools(R), Proto(R), Jensen(R), Goldblatt(R) and Vidmar(R) trademarks are
also material to the business.

     Environmental Regulations. The company is subject to various environmental
laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has operations.
Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will
likely increase the company's expenditures related to environmental matters.

     The company is a party to a number of proceedings before federal and state
regulatory agencies relating to environmental remediation. Additionally, the
company, along with many other parties, has been named as a potentially
responsible party ("PRP") in a number of administrative or judicial proceedings
for the remediation of various waste sites, including nine (9) active Superfund
sites. Current laws potentially impose joint and severe liability upon each



PRP. In assessing its potential liability at these sites, the company has
considered the following: the solvency of the other PRP's, whether
responsibility is being disputed, the terms of existing agreements, experience
at similar sites, and the fact that its volumetric contribution at these sites
is relatively small.

     The company's policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and
remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The amount of
liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with
respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing
technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in
remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into
account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As
assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded
are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal
information that becomes available. As of December 30, 2000, the company had
reserves of approximately $15 million, primarily for remediation activities
associated with company-owned properties as well as for Superfund sites.

     The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on
estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect
additional technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs
to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent
uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures. Subject to the imprecision
in estimating future environmental costs, the company does not expect that any
sum it may have to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the
amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.

     Power-generating Subsidiary. Under the General Statutes of Connecticut, the
company is deemed to be a "holding company" that controls an electric company as
a result of its being the sole shareholder of The Farmington River Power
Company, a power-generating subsidiary of the company since 1916. Under such
statute, no organization or person may take any action to acquire control of
such a holding company without the prior approval of the Connecticut Department
of Public Utility Control.

     Employees. At December 30, 2000, the company had approximately 15,500
employees, approximately 8,800 of whom were employed in the U.S. Of these 8,800
U.S. employees, approximately 14.8% are covered by collective bargaining
agreements negotiated with 17 different local labor unions who are, in turn,
affiliated with approximately 7 different international labor unions. The
majority of the company's hourly-paid and weekly-paid employees outside the U.S.
are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. The company's labor
agreements in the U.S. expire in 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004.



There have been no significant interruptions or curtailments of the company's
operations in recent years due to labor disputes. The company believes that its
relationship with its employees is good.

     Cautionary Statements. The statements contained in this annual report to
shareowners regarding the company's ability (i) to become a Great Brand and
deliver sustained, profitable growth (e.g., sales growth at twice the industry
rate, earnings growth in the low- to mid- teens and dividend growth), (ii) to
lower the overall cost structure to become more competitive, (iii) to obtain
sales growth from the implementation of sales and marketing programs, and (iv)
to drive working capital efficiency and continue to generate cash in order to,
among other things, invest in business needs, make strategic acquisitions and to
fund restructuring and other initiatives are forward looking and inherently
subject to risk and uncertainty.

The company's ability to lower its overall cost structure is dependent on the
success of various initiatives to improve manufacturing operations and to
implement related cost control systems and to source from and manufacture a
higher percentage of the company's products in low-cost countries. The success
of these initiatives is dependent on the company's ability to increase the
efficiency of its routine business processes, to develop and implement process
control systems, to develop and execute comprehensive plans for facility
consolidations, the availability of vendors to perform outsourced functions, the
availability of lower cost raw material of suitable quality from foreign
countries, the successful recruitment and training of new employees, the
resolution of any labor issues related to closing facilities, the need to
respond to significant changes in product demand while any facility
consolidation is in process and other unforeseen events. In addition, the
company's ability to leverage the benefits of gross margin improvements is
dependent upon maintaining selling, general and administrative expense at 2000
levels. The company's ability to maintain the level of selling, general and
administrative expenses is dependent upon various process improvement
activities, the successful implementation of changes to the sales organization,
the recruitment and retention of manufacturers sales representatives and the
reduction of transaction costs.

The company's ability to achieve sales growth is dependent upon a number of
factors, including: (i) the ability to recruit and retain a sales force
comprised of employees and manufacturers reps, (ii) the success of the company's
sales and marketing programs to increase retail sell through and stimulate
demand for the company's products, (iii) the ability of the sales force to adapt
to changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer
coverage, (iv) the ability of the company to fulfill demand for its products,
(v) the absence of pricing pressures from customers and competitors and the
ability to defend market share in the face of price competition, (vi) the
ability to improve the cost structure in order to fund new product and



brand development and (vii) the acceptance of the company's new products in the
marketplace as well as the ability to satisfy demand for these products.

The company's ability to drive working capital efficiency and continue to
generate cash in order to, among other things, invest in business needs, make
strategic acquisitions and to fund restructuring and other initiatives is
dependent on all of the factors discussed above as well as the continued success
of improvements in processes to manage inventory and receivable levels.

The company's ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be
affected by external factors. These external factors include pricing pressure
and other changes within competitive markets, the continued consolidation of
customers in consumer channels, increasing competition, changes in trade,
monetary and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange
fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange rates on the
competitiveness of products and recessionary or expansive trends in the
economies of the world in which the company operates.

     1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas. Geographic area
information on page 36 of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended
December 30, 2000 is incorporated herein by reference.

In addition, approximately 16.2% of the company's long-lived assets are related
to its Israeli operations.

         Item 2. Properties.

         As of December 30, 2000, company and its subsidiaries owned or leased
facilities for manufacturing, distribution and sales offices in 28 states and 33
foreign countries. The company believes that its facilities are suitable and
adequate for its business.

         A summary of material locations (over 50,000 square feet) that are
owned by the company and its subsidiaries are:

         Tools.

         Phoenix, Arizona; Visalia, California; Clinton and New Britain,
Connecticut; Shelbyville, Indiana; Two Harbors, Minnesota; Hamlet and Sanford,
North Carolina; Columbus, Georgetown and Sabina, Ohio; Allentown, Pennsylvania;
East Greenwich, Rhode Island; Cheraw, South Carolina; Shelbyville, Tennessee;
Dallas and Wichita Falls, Texas; Pittsfield and Shaftsbury, Vermont; Richmond,
Virginia; Smiths Falls, Canada; Pecky, Czech Republic; Hellaby, Northampton,
Worsley and Sheffield, England; Besancon Cedex, France; Wieseth, Germany;
Chihuahua and Puebla, Mexico; Wroclaw, Poland; Taichung Hsien, Taiwan; and
Amphur Bangpakong, Thailand.




         Doors.

         Chatsworth, California; Farmington and New Britain, Connecticut;
Richmond, Virginia; Brampton, Canada; Sheffield, England; Marquette, France and
Zhongshan City, Peoples Republic of China.

         A summary of material locations (over 50,000 square feet) that are
leased by the company and its subsidiaries are:

         Tools.

         New Britain, Connecticut; Miami, Florida; Covington, Georgia;
Kannapolis, North Carolina; Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio; Milwaukie, Oregon;
Carrollton, Texas; Burlington and Smiths Falls, Canada; and Ecclesfield, Worsley
and Northampton, England; Biassono, Italy; Heidelberg West, Australia and
Izraelim, Israel.

         Doors.

         San Dimas, California; Tupelo, Mississippi; Charlotte, North Carolina;
Winchester, Virginia; and Langley and Oakville, Canada.

         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

         In the normal course of business, the company is involved in various
lawsuits, claims, including product liability and distributor claims, and
administrative proceedings. The company does not expect that the resolution of
these matters will have a materially adverse effect on the company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

         On November 23, 1999, the company voluntarily reported potential
violations of the East Greenwich, Rhode Island facility's air emissions permit
to the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management ("RIDEM") pursuant to
the Rhode Island Environmental Compliance Incentive Act (the "Act"). In the
past, the facility by-passed air emissions control equipment when such equipment
periodically malfunctioned. This practice may constitute a violation of the
facility's air permit. Subsequent to the disclosure to RIDEM on November 23,
1999, the company retained an outside environmental consulting firm to conduct a
voluntary multi-media compliance audit of the facility. The auditor discovered
certain additional potential violations of environmental laws, which the company
voluntarily reported to RIDEM and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (the "U.S. EPA") under the Act and the U.S. EPA's self-policing policy.
The company expects to pay a penalty of less than $300,000 in respect of the
foregoing violations.

         Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.




     No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the company's last
fiscal year to a vote of security holders.

     Executive Officers. The following is a list of the executive officers of
the company as of December 30, 2000:



Executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Unless
otherwise indicated, each officer has had the same position with the company for
five years.


                                     Part II

         Item 5. Market for the company's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
Matters. The company incorporates by reference the line item "Shareowners of
record at end of year" from pages 26 and 27 and the material captioned "Investor
and Shareowner Information" on page 53 of its Annual Report to Shareowners for
the year ended December 30, 2000.

         Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The company incorporates by reference
pages 26 and 27 of its Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended December
30, 2000.

         Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations. The company incorporates by reference pages 30 through 35
of its Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended December 30, 2000.




         Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The company incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk" on
page 34 and Footnote I on page 44 of its Annual Report to Shareowners for the
year ended December 30, 2000.

         Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The consolidated
financial statements and report of independent auditors included on pages 37 to
51 and page 29, respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year
ended December 30, 2000 are incorporated herein by reference.

         Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure. None.


                                    Part III

         Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Company. Information
regarding the company's Executive Officers appears in the "Executive Officers"
section at the end of Part I of this report. In addition, the company
incorporates by reference pages 1 through 5 of its definitive Proxy Statement,
dated March 20, 2001.

         Item 11. Executive Compensation. The company incorporates by reference
the paragraph "Board Information-Compensation" on pages 4 and 5 and the material
captioned "Executive Compensation" on pages 7 through 15 of its definitive Proxy
Statement, dated March 20, 2001.

         Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management. The company incorporates by reference the material captioned
"Security Ownership" on pages 5 and 6 of its definitive Proxy Statement, dated
March 20, 2001.

         Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  None.

                                     Part IV

         Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
8-K.

         14(a) Index to documents filed as part of this report:

         1. and 2. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules.

The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of
this report (see page F-1).

         3. Exhibits

See Exhibit Index on page E-1.






         14(b) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last
quarter of the period covered by this report:


        Date of Report             Items Reported

       October 18, 2000            Press Release dated October 18, 2000
                                   announcing third quarter earnings and fourth
                                   quarter dividend.


      14(c)  See Exhibit Index on page E-1.

      14(d) The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
section of this report (see page F-1).













                                   SIGNATURES


    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  THE STANLEY WORKS



                                             By /s/ John M. Trani
                                                ---------------------------
                                                John M. Trani, Chairman
                                                and Chief Executive Officer
March 30, 2001


    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the company
and in the capacities indicated.

      /s/ John M. Trani                       /s/ James M. Loree
- ----------------------------------    -----------------------------------------
John M. Trani, Chairman, Chief        James M. Loree, Vice President,
Executive Officer and Director        Finance and Chief Financial
                                      Officer

      /s/ Donald Allan                                   *
- ----------------------------------    -----------------------------------------
Donald Allan, Corporate Controller    John G. Breen, Director

               *
- ----------------------------------    -----------------------------------------
Stillman B. Brown, Director           Mannie L. Jackson, Director

                                                         *
- ----------------------------------    -----------------------------------------
James G. Kaiser, Director             Eileen S. Kraus, Director

               *                                         *
- ----------------------------------    -----------------------------------------
John D. Opie, Director                Hugo E. Uyterhoeven, Director

               *
- ----------------------------------
Kathryn D. Wriston, Director




*By:   /s/ Bruce H. Beatt
       ---------------------
       Bruce H. Beatt
       (As Attorney-in-Fact)



FORM 10-K--ITEM 14(a) (1) and (2)

THE STANLEY WORKS AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    The following consolidated financial statements and report of independent
auditors of The Stanley Works and subsidiaries, included in the Annual Report of
the company to its Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2000, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8:

    Report of Independent Auditors

    Consolidated Statements of Operations--fiscal years ended December 30, 2000,
January 1, 2000, and January 2, 1999.

    Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000, and January
2, 1999.

    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--fiscal years ended December 30, 2000,
January 1, 2000, and January 2, 1999.

    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareowners' Equity-- fiscal years
ended December 30, 2000, January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999.

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Stanley Works
and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):


    F-4   Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


    All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.











                                       F-1







CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of The Stanley Works of our report dated January 24, 2001.

Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of The
Stanley Works listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the
company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration
statements of our report dated January 24, 2001 with respect to the consolidated
financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and our report included
in the preceding paragraph with respect to the consolidated financial statement
schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of The Stanley Works.

        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-93025)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-96778)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-97283)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-16669)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-12853)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-19930)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-39553)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-41612)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-46212)
        Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 33-47889)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-55663)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62565)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62567)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-62575)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-42346)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-42582)


                                              ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
March 26, 2001




                                       F-2







CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration
statements pertaining to The Stanley Works Account Value Plan of our report
dated March 14, 2001, with respect to the financial statements and schedules of
The Stanley Works Account Value Plan for the year ended December 31, 2000
included as Exhibit 99(i) to this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the fiscal year
ended December 30, 2000.

        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 2-97283)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-41612)
        Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-55663)



                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Hartford, Connecticut
March 26, 2001






























                                       F-3









                                       F-4



                                  EXHIBIT LIST


(3) (i) Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2,
1999)

    (ii) By-laws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000)

(4) (i) Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1986 between the Company and State
Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee, defining the rights of
holders of 7-3/8% Notes Due December 15, 2002 and 5.75% Notes due March 1, 2004
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registration Statement No. 33-4344
filed March 27, 1986)

    (ii) First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1992 between the
Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as successor trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(c) to Registration Statement No.
33-46212 filed July 21, 1992)

        (a) Certificate of Designated Officers establishing Terms of 7-3/8%
Notes Due December 15, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(ii) to
Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 7, 1992)

        (b) Certificate of Designated Officers establishing Terms of 5.75%
Notes due March 1, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(ii)(a) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 1999)

    (iii) Rights Agreement, dated January 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit (4)(i) to Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 1996)

    (iv)(a) Amended and Restated Facility A (364 Day) Credit Agreement, dated as
of October 23, 1996, with the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A. as agent
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(iv) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 28, 1996)

        (b) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 21, 1998, among the Company,
the Lenders named therein and Citibank, N.A. as agent (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4(iv)(c) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
October 3, 1998)



                                      E-1


         (c) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 21, 1998, as amended and
restated as of October 20, 1999, among the Company, each lender that is a
signatory thereto and Citibank, N.A. as Agent for the Lenders (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended October 2, 1999)

         (d) Credit Agreement, dated as of October 21, 1998, as amended and
restated as of October 18, 2000, among the Company, each lender that is a
signatory thereto and Citibank, N.A. as Agent for the Lenders (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2000)

    (v) Amended and Restated Facility B (Five Year) Credit Agreement, dated as
of October 23, 1996, with the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A. as agent
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(v) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 28, 1996)

(10)(i) Executive Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1987)*

    (ii) Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors as amended
December 11, 2000*

    (iii) 1988 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended January 3, 1998)*

    (iv) Management Incentive Compensation Plan effective January 4, 1998
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)*

    (v) Deferred Compensation Plan for Participants in Stanley's Management
Incentive Plan effective January 1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(v) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 1995)*




     * Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement



                                      E-2



     (vi) Supplemental Retirement and Account Value Plan for Salaried Employees
of The Stanley Works effective as of January 1, 2000 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10(vi) of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January
1, 2000)*

     (vii) Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1998, between the
Stanley Account Value Plan Trust, acting by and through Citibank, N.A. as
trustee under the trust agreement for the Stanley Account Value Plan, for
$41,050,763 aggregate principal amount of 6.07% Senior ESOP Guaranteed Notes Due
December 31, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)

     (viii) New 1991 Loan Agreement, dated June 30, 1998, between The Stanley
Works, as lender, and Citibank, N.A. as trustee under the trust agreement for
the Stanley Account Value Plan, to refinance the 1991 Salaried Employee ESOP
Loan and the 1991 Hourly ESOP Loan and their related promissory notes
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1998)

(ix) (a)Supplemental Executive Retirement Program effective May 20, 1997
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xi)(a) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

     (b) Amendment to John M. Trani's supplemental Executive Retirement Program,
dated September 17, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ix)(b) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

(x)  (a) The Stanley Works Non-Employee Directors' Benefit Trust Agreement dated
December 27, 1989 and amended as of January 1, 1991 by and between The Stanley
Works and Fleet National Bank, as successor trustee (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit (10)(xvii)(a) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended
December 29, 1990)

     (b) Stanley Works Employees' Benefit Trust Agreement dated December 27,
1989 and amended as of January 1, 1991 by and between The Stanley Works and
Fleet National Bank, as successor trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(xvii)(b) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 29,
1990)




* Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement



                                      E-3


     (xi) Restated and Amended 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10(xiii) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 28, 1996)

     (xii) Master Leasing Agreement, dated September 1, 1992 between BLC
Corporation and The Stanley Works (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to
the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 1992)

     (xiii) The Stanley Works Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as
amended December 18, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xvii) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)

     (xiv) Employment Agreement effective December 27, 1996 between The Stanley
Works and John M. Trani (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to Current
Report on Form 8-K dated January 2, 1997)*

     (xv) Letter Agreement, dated April 30, 1996 between The Stanley Works and
Paul W. Russo (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xx) to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended January 3, 1998)*

     (xvi) 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
99.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-42582 filed July 28, 2000)*

     (xvii) Agreement, dated November 16, 1998 between The Stanley Works and
John A. Cosentino, Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (xviii) to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 1999)*

     (xviii) Agreement, dated May 7, 1999 between The Stanley Works and Ron
Newcomb (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1999)*

     (xix) Agreement, dated June 9, 1999 between The Stanley Works and James
Loree (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1999)*

     (xx) Engagement Letter, dated August 26, 1999 between The Stanley Works and
Donald R. McIlnay (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1999)*


* Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement


                                      E-4


     (xxi) Agreement, dated November 16, 1998 between The Stanley Works and John
Turner (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 (xxii) of the Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2000)*

     (xxii) Agreement, dated September 12, 2000 between The Stanley Works and
Bruce H. Beatt*

     (xxiii) Agreement, dated October 6, 2000 between Stanley Works Inc.,
Stanley Europe BVBA, Stanley Atlantic Inc. and Mr. Stef G.H. Kranendijk*

(11) Statement re computation of per share earnings (the information required to
be presented in this exhibit appears in footnote J to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements set forth in the Annual Report to Shareowners for the year
ended December 30, 2000)

(12) Statement re computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

(13) Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended December 30, 2000

(21) Subsidiaries of Registrant

(23) Consents of Independent Auditors (at pages F-2 and F-3)

(24) Power of Attorney

(99) (i) Financial Statements and report of independent auditors for the year
ended December 31, 2000, of The Stanley Works Account Value Plan

     (ii) Policy on Confidential Proxy Voting and Independent Tabulation and
Inspection of Elections as adopted by The Board of Directors October 23, 1991
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit (28)(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 1991)





* Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement


                                      E-5

