
10-K405
FORM 10K405



 
================================================================================
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994 or
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from ____________ to ____________

Commission File No. 1-7259
                            SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
             TEXAS                                             74-1563240
   (State of other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. employer
   incorporation or organization)                        identification no.)

        P.O. BOX 36611
         DALLAS, TEXAS                                       75235-1611
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (214) 904-4000

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
          TITLE OF EACH CLASS                     ON WHICH REGISTERED
          -------------------                     -------------------

     Common Stock ($1.00 par value)          New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
     Common Share Purchase Rights            New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                     None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]    No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.                                 Yes [X]    No [ ]

     Aggregate market value of Common Stock held by nonaffiliates as of February
28, 1995:

                                $2,472,861,013

  Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of the close of business on
February 28, 1995:

                              143,360,669 shares

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of
     Shareholders, May 18, 1995:              PART III

================================================================================

 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

     Southwest Airlines Co. (Southwest) is a major domestic airline that
provides shorthaul, high frequency, point-to-point, low fare service.  Southwest
was incorporated in Texas and commenced Customer Service on June 18, 1971 with
three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities - Dallas, Houston, and San
Antonio.
 
     At yearend 1994, Southwest operated 199 Boeing 737 aircraft and provided
service to 45 airports in 44 cities primarily in the midwestern, southwestern,
and western regions of the United States.

     On December 31, 1993, Southwest acquired Morris Air Corporation (Morris) in
a stock-for-stock exchange, issuing approximately 3.6 million shares of
Southwest Common Stock in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of Morris.
During 1994, the operations of Morris were substantially integrated with those
of Southwest.  As a result of that process, Southwest commenced service to seven
new cities in 1994:  Tucson, Arizona; Santa Ana (Orange County), California;
Boise, Idaho; Portland, Oregon; Salt Lake City, Utah; Seattle, and Spokane,
Washington.  Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this annual
report to the "Company" include Southwest and Morris.

     The business of the Company is somewhat seasonal.  Quarterly operating
income and, to a lesser extent, revenues tend to be somewhat lower in the first
quarter (January 1 - March 31).

FUEL

     The cost of fuel is an item having significant impact on the Company's
operating results.  The Company's average cost of jet fuel per gallon for
scheduled carrier service over the past five years was as follows:



     The Company is unable to predict the extent of future fuel cost changes.
The Company has standard industry arrangements with major fuel suppliers.
Standard industry fuel contracts do not provide material protection against
price increases or for assured availability of supplies.  The Company uses
various price-risk management techniques, including derivative products such as
fixed-price swaps, caps, and collars, to help protect against price increases.
To date, not more than 11 percent of then-current usage was hedged in this
manner.  Although market conditions can significantly impact the price of jet
fuel, at present, these conditions have not resulted in an inadequate supply of
jet fuel.  For more discussion of current jet fuel costs and the impact of these
costs on the Company's operations, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


 
REGULATION

     Economic.  The Dallas Love Field section of the International Air
Transportation Competition Act of 1979 (Competition Act), as it affects
Southwest's scheduled service, provides that no common carrier may provide
scheduled passenger air transportation for compensation between Love Field and
one or more points outside Texas, except that an air carrier may transport
individuals by air on a flight between Love Field and one or more points within
the states of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas if (a) "such
air carrier does not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with
another air carrier" and (b) "such air carrier does not offer for sale
transportation to or from, and the flight or aircraft does not serve, any point
which is outside any such states."   Southwest does not interline or offer joint
fares with any other air carrier.  The Competition Act does not restrict
Southwest's intrastate Texas flights or its air service from points other than
Love Field to points beyond Texas and the four contiguous states.

     The Department of Transportation (DOT) has significant regulatory
jurisdiction over passenger airlines.  Unless exempted, no air carrier may
furnish air transportation over any route without a DOT certificate of
authorization, which does not confer either exclusive or proprietary rights.
The Company's certificates are unlimited in duration and permit the Company to
operate among any points within the United States, its territories and
possessions, except as limited by the Love Field section of the Competition Act,
as do the certificates of all other U.S. carriers.  DOT may revoke such
certificates, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with any
provisions of subchapter IV of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, or any order,
rule or regulation issued thereunder or any term, condition or limitation of
such certificate; provided that, with respect to revocation, the certificate
holder has first been advised of the alleged violation and has been given a
reasonable time to effect compliance.

     DOT prescribes uniform disclosure standards regarding terms and conditions
of carriage, and prescribes that terms incorporated into the Contract of
Carriage by reference are not binding upon passengers unless notice is given in
accordance with its regulations.

     Safety.  The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) with respect to its aircraft maintenance and operations,
including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, flight
training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety.  To ensure
compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain operating,
airworthiness and other certificates which are subject to suspension or
revocation for cause.  The Company has obtained such certificates.  The FAA,
acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U. S. Attorney, also
has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and collection of fines
for violation of the Federal Air Regulations.

     Environmental.  The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA) requires
the phase out of Stage 2 airplanes (which meet less stringent noise emission
standards than later model Stage 3 airplanes) in the contiguous 48 states by
December 31, 1999.   FAA rules establish interim compliance dates for ANCA of
December 31, 1994, December 31, 1996, and December 31, 1998.  An operator may
comply by either implementing a reduction of the operator's base level, as
defined in ANCA, of Stage 2 aircraft by at least 25 percent increments by the
end of the three interim compliance dates or by operating a fleet that is at
least 55 percent Stage 3 by December 31, 1994, 65 percent by December 31, 1996,
and 75 percent by December 31, 1998.  Selection of one of the two alternative
compliance techniques is not irrevocable and operators are free to opt for one
method at one compliance date and another at the next.  Operation of Stage 2
aircraft after December 31, 1999 is prohibited, subject, however, to an
extension of the final compliance date to December 31, 2003, if at least 85
percent of the aircraft used by the operator in the contiguous United States
will comply with Stage 3 noise levels by July 1, 1999 and the operator
successfully obtains a waiver from the FAA of the December 31, 1999 final
phaseout date.  Statutory requirements to obtain a waiver include a
determination by the FAA that the waiver is in the


 
public interest or would enhance competition or benefit service to small
communities.  There is no assurance that such a waiver is obtainable.

     The Company's fleet, as of December 31, 1994, consisted of 50 Stage 2
aircraft and 149 Stage 3 aircraft, yielding a Stage 3 percentage of 74.9
percent.  Accordingly, the Company exceeds the Stage 3 fleet percentage
requirement for the December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1996 interim compliance
dates.

     As of December 31, 1994, of the 50 Stage 2 aircraft operated by the
Company, 30 are leased from third parties and 20 are owned by the Company.  The
Company can comply with the rules by acquiring additional Stage 3 aircraft,
returning Stage 2 aircraft to the lessors as the leases terminate according to
their terms, retiring owned Stage 2 aircraft, or hushkitting Stage 2 aircraft.
Because the Company already complies with the December 31, 1998 interim
compliance requirement of a 75 percent Stage 3 fleet, the Company could operate
all 50 of its Stage 2 aircraft until December 31, 1999.  Based upon the
Company's current schedule for delivery of new Stage 3 aircraft, including
options, the Company could achieve 85 percent compliance by July 1, 1999 through
the retirement of only seven of the 50 Stage 2 aircraft, assuming no
hushkitting.  This would qualify the Company to apply for a waiver from the
final compliance date, which, if obtained, could permit the Company to continue
operation of the remaining 43 Stage 2 aircraft until, at the latest, December
31, 2003.

     ANCA also requires the FAA to establish parameters within which any new
Stage 2 and Stage 3 noise or access restrictions at individual airports must be
developed.  The published rules generally provide that local noise restrictions
on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October 1990 require FAA approval, and
establish a regulatory notice and review process for local restrictions on Stage
2 aircraft first proposed after October 1990.  Certain airports, including
Dallas Love Field, Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco, and Orange County,
have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on
aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations
or the time of such operations.  In some instances, these restrictions have
caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and such
restrictions could limit the ability of Southwest to expand its operations at
the affected airports.  Local authorities at other airports are considering
adopting similar noise regulations.

     Operations at John Wayne Airport, Orange County, California, are governed
by the Airport's Phase 2 Commercial Airline Access Plan and Regulation (the
"Plan").  Pursuant to the Plan, each airline is allocated total annual seat
capacity to be operated at the airport, subject to renewal/reallocation on an
annual basis.  The airport's governing body completed the reallocation process
on February 7, 1995.  The Company was allocated seat capacity to operate only 14
daily flights, rather than the 21 flights being operated as of January 15, 1995,
thereby necessitating a reduction of seven daily flights by the Company.  To
comply with the Plan, the Company will maintain seven daily flights to San Jose
and Oakland, California, respectively, and will eliminate non-stop service to
Salt Lake City, Utah (two daily flights) and Phoenix, Arizona (four daily
flights) and one daily flight to San Jose, all effective April 1, 1995.

     The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including the
discharge of materials into the environment.

MARKETING AND COMPETITION

     Southwest focuses on point-to-point, rather than hub-and-spoke, service in
shorthaul markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights, and low fares.  For
example, Southwest's average aircraft trip length in 1994 was 391 miles with an
average duration of approximately one hour.  At yearend, Southwest served 298
nonstop city pairs with an average weekday frequency of six roundtrips per city
pair.


 
     Southwest's point-to-point route system, as compared to hub-and-spoke,
provides for more direct nonstop routings for shorthaul customers and,
therefore, minimizes connections, delays, and total trip time.  Southwest
focuses on local, not connecting, traffic.  As a result, approximately 80
percent of the Company's customers fly nonstop. In addition, Southwest serves
many conveniently-located satellite or downtown airports such as Dallas Love
Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore, Burbank, Oakland, and San Jose
airports, which are typically less congested than other airlines' hub airports
and enhance the Company's ability to sustain high employee productivity and
reliable ontime performance.  This operating strategy also permits the Company
to achieve high asset utilization.  Aircraft are scheduled to minimize the
amount of time the aircraft is at the gate, approximately 20 minutes, thereby
reducing the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be
required.  Southwest does not interline with other jet airlines, nor have any
commuter feeder relationships.

     Southwest employs a very simple fare structure, maintaining low,
unrestricted, unlimited everyday coach fares.  The Company operates only one
aircraft type, the Boeing 737, which simplifies scheduling, maintenance, flight
operations, and training activities.

     In May 1994, the computer reservations systems (CRSs) used by travel
agencies owned by United Airlines (Apollo) and Continental Airlines (System One)
disabled automated ticketing for Southwest travel.  Rather than pay the fees
associated with CRS participation in Apollo and System One, Southwest has taken
the following actions:  Southwest has provided direct access to its own
reservation system and ticketing for the 50 largest travel agencies (SWAT);
instituted overnight delivery of Southwest-produced tickets for approximately
300 large travel agencies; improved access to Ticket By Mail for direct
Customers by reducing the time limit from seven days out from the date of travel
to three days; and introduced a Ticketless travel option, eliminating the need
to print a paper ticket altogether.  Southwest has also entered into a new
arrangement with SABRE, the CRS in which Southwest has historically participated
to a limited extent, providing for ticketing and automated booking on Southwest
in a very cost-effective manner.

     The airline industry is highly competitive as to fares, frequent flyer
benefits, routes, and service, and some carriers competing with the Company have
greater financial resources, larger fleets, and wider name recognition.  Several
of the Company's larger competitors have initiated low-cost, shorthaul service
in markets served by the Company, which represents a more direct threat in
Southwest's market niche. Profit levels in the air transport industry are highly
sensitive to changes in operating and capital costs and the extent to which
competitors match an airline's fares and services.  The profitability of a
carrier in the airline industry is also impacted by general economic trends.
For more discussion on the current competitive environment for Southwest, see
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

     The Company is also subject to varying degrees of competition from surface
transportation in its shorthaul markets, particularly the private automobile.
In shorthaul air services which compete with surface transportation, price is a
competitive factor, but frequency and convenience of scheduling, facilities,
transportation safety, and Customer Service may be of equal or greater
importance to many passengers.

INSURANCE

     The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry
and in amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to
comply both with federal regulations and certain of the Company's credit and
lease agreements.  The policies principally provide coverage for public and
passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or
damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers' compensation.


 
FREQUENT FLYER AWARDS

     Southwest's frequent flyer program, The Company Club, is based on trips
flown rather than mileage.  The Company Club offers one free roundtrip travel
award to any Southwest destination after flying eight roundtrips (or 16 one-way
trips) on Southwest within a consecutive twelve-month period.

     The trips flown as credit towards a free travel award certificate are valid
for twelve months only; the free travel award is automatically generated when
earned by the Customer rather than allowing the Customer to bank the trip
credits indefinitely; and the free travel award is valid for one year with an
automatic expiration date.  Based on the issuance of free travel awards to
qualified members, coupled with the foregoing program characteristics and the
use of "black out" dates for the free travel awards during peak holiday periods,
the financial impact of free travel awards used on the Company's consolidated
financial statements has not been material.  Free travel awards redeemed were
approximately 279,000,  256,000, and 209,000 during 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.  The amount of free travel award usage as a percentage of total
Southwest revenue passengers carried was 1.4 percent in 1994 and 1.5 percent in
both 1993 and 1992.

     The Company accounts for free travel awards using the incremental cost
method, consistent with the other major airlines.  This method recognizes an
average incremental cost to provide roundtrip transportation to one additional
passenger.  The incremental cost to provide free transportation is accrued at
the time an award is earned and revenue is subsequently recognized, at the
amount accrued, when the free travel award is used.  The estimated incremental
costs include passenger costs such as beverage and snack supplies, baggage
claims, baggage handling, and liability insurance; operations costs such as
security services, airport rentals, fuel, oil, and into-plane charges; and
reservations costs, such as communications and system operations fees.  The
liability for free travel awards earned but not used at December 31, 1994 and
1993 was not material.

     The number of free travel awards for Southwest outstanding at December 31,
1994 and 1993 was approximately 248,000 and 178,000, respectively.  These
numbers do not include partially earned awards.  The Company currently does not
have a system to accurately estimate partially earned awards.  However, these
partially earned awards may equate to approximately 60-70 percent of the current
outstanding awards.  Since the inception of The Company Club in 1987,
approximately 15 percent of all award certificates have expired without being
used.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1994, Southwest (including Morris) had 16,818 employees,
consisting of 4,894 flight, 747 maintenance, 9,237 ground customer service and
1,940 management, accounting, marketing, and clerical personnel.

     Southwest has nine collective bargaining agreements covering approximately
83 percent of its employees.  Southwest's fleet service employees are subject to
an agreement with the Ramp, Operations and Provisioning Association, which
became amendable in December 1994 and is currently in negotiation.  Customer
service and reservation employees are subject to an agreement with the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (IAM),
which becomes amendable in November 1997.  Flight attendants are subject to an
agreement with the Transportation Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO, which
becomes amendable May 31, 1996.  The pilots are subject to an agreement with the
Southwest Airlines Pilots' Association (SWAPA), which becomes amendable in
September 1999 (described below).  Flight dispatchers are represented by the
Southwest Airlines Employees Association, pursuant to an agreement which becomes
amendable in November 1997.  Mechanics, aircraft cleaners


 
and stock clerks are subject to agreements with the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, with both agreements becoming amendable in August 1995.  The flight
simulator technicians are represented by the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters pursuant to an agreement which becomes amendable in October 1995.  The
flight/ground school instructors are subject to an agreement with the Southwest
Airlines Professional Instructors Association which becomes amendable in
December 1995.

     The Company recently entered into two labor contracts with large employee
groups.  In November 1994, Southwest entered into an agreement with the IAM
covering Customer service and reservation employees.  In January 1995,
Southwest's pilots ratified a ten-year labor contract that calls for no wage
increases in the first five years and three percent annual wage increases in
three of the last five years of the contract.  Initially, the pilots will
receive options to purchase approximately 14.5 million shares of Southwest
common stock at $20 per share over the term of the contract; pilots hired
subsequently will receive additional grants at a five percent premium over then
current fair market value, up to a total of 18,000,000 shares that can be issued
under the stock option plan.  Pilots will be eligible for profitability bonuses
of up to three percent of compensation in three of the first five years and
profitability-based pay increases up to three percent in two of the second five
years of the contract.  The pilot group may choose to reopen the contract in
five years, in which event all unexercised options will terminate.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

AIRCRAFT

     Southwest and Morris operated a total of 199 Boeing 737 aircraft as of
December 31, 1994, of which 89 and 13 were under operating and capital leases,
respectively.  The remaining 97 aircraft are owned.

     In January 1994, Southwest entered into an agreement with The Boeing
Company, pursuant to which Southwest is the launch customer for the Boeing 737-
700 aircraft, the newest generation of the Boeing 737 aircraft type.  As the
launch customer, Southwest has agreed to purchase sixty-three Boeing 737-700
aircraft from 1997 to 2001, with options for an additional 63 737-700 aircraft
from 1998 to 2004.  As a part of this transaction, 42 of the 53 options for 737-
300 aircraft from 1997 to 1999 were canceled.

     In total, including an agreement in principle to lease two used aircraft in
second quarter 1995, at December 31, 1994, the Company had 118 firm orders and
74 options as follows:


    The average age of the Company's fleet at December 31, 1994 was 7.6 years.

    For information regarding the Company's obligations under capital leases and
noncancelable operating leases see Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

    For information concerning Southwest's aircraft purchase commitments, see
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 
    The Company has an agreement with CFM International, Inc. (a joint company
of SNECMA (France) and General Electric Company) dated May 28, 1981, as amended,
for the supply of spare engines for its Boeing 737-300, -500, and -700 aircraft.
CFM also supplies the engines to The Boeing Company for original installation on
such aircraft.  CFM is the sole manufacturer of engines for use on the Boeing
737-300, -400, -500, and -700 aircraft.

GROUND FACILITIES AND SERVICES

    Southwest leases terminal passenger service facilities at each of the
airports it serves to which it has added various leasehold improvements.  The
Company leases land on a long-term basis for its maintenance centers located at
Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, and Phoenix Sky Harbor, its training center
near Love Field which houses three 737 simulators, and its corporate
headquarters also located near Love Field.  The maintenance, training center,
and corporate headquarters buildings on these sites were built and are owned by
Southwest.  At December 31, 1994, the Company operated seven reservation
centers.  The reservation centers located in Chicago, Illinois; Albuquerque, New
Mexico; and Salt Lake City, Utah occupy leased space.  The Company owns its
Dallas, Texas; Houston, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; and San Antonio, Texas
reservation centers.  In January 1995, the Company opened its newest reservation
center in Little Rock, Arkansas on leased land and has announced an intention to
locate an additional reservation center on leased land in Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma.

    The Company performs substantially all line maintenance on its aircraft and
provides ground support services at most of the airports it serves.  However,
the Company has arrangements with certain aircraft maintenance firms for major
component overhauls and repairs for its airframes and engines, which comprise
the majority of the annual maintenance cost.

    In recent years, many airports have increased or sought to increase the
rates charged to airlines.  The extent to which such charges are limited by
statute and the ability of airlines to contest such charges has been subject to
litigation, including a case recently decided against certain carriers by the
United States Supreme Court.  To the extent the limitations on such charges are
relaxed or the ability of airlines to challenge such charges is restricted, the
rates charged by airports to airlines may increase substantially.  Management
cannot predict the magnitude of any such increase.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    In January 1994, Southwest received an examination report from the Internal
Revenue Service proposing certain adjustments to Southwest's income tax returns
for 1987 and 1988.  The adjustments relate to certain types of aircraft
financings consummated by Southwest, as well as other members of the aviation
industry, during that time period.  Southwest intends to vigorously protest the
adjustments made with which it does not agree.  The industry's differences with
the IRS involve complex issues of law and fact which are likely to take a
substantial period of time to resolve.  Management believes that final
resolution of such protest will not have a materially adverse effect upon the
results of operations of Southwest.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None to be reported.


 
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The executive officers of Southwest, their positions, and their respective
ages (as of March 1, 1995) are as follows:


    Executive officers are elected annually at the first meeting of Southwest's
Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders or appointed by
the President pursuant to Board authorization.  All of the executive officers
have held their current positions with Southwest for more than five years except
Ms. Barrett.  On November 21, 1990, Ms. Barrett was appointed Executive Vice
President - Customers.  Ms. Barrett had served as Vice President -
Administration since July 1985, and Corporate Secretary of Southwest since 
March 28, 1978.


 
                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    Southwest's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is
traded under the symbol LUV.  The high and low sales prices of the common stock
on the Composite Tape and the quarterly dividends per share paid on the common
stock, as adjusted for the July 1993 three-for-two stock split were:


     As of February 28, 1995, there were 10,720 holders of record of the
Company's common stock.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following financial information for the five years ended December 31,
1994 has been derived from the Company's consolidated financial statements.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere herein.


 


________________________________
/(1)/ Proforma prior to 1993, assuming Morris, an S-Corporation prior to 1993,
      was taxed at statutory rates.

/(2)/ Includes the net cumulative effect of adopting Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" and Statement
      of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
      Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions." For additional information,
      see the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the
      accompanying notes thereto.

/(3)/ Includes one-time adjustment for the cumulative effect of a change in the
      method of accounting for scheduled airframe overhaul costs from the direct
      expense method to that of capitalizing and amortizing the costs over the
      periods benefited. For additional information, see the Consolidated
      Financial Statements of the Company and the accompanying notes thereto.

/(4)/ Includes $2.6 million gains on sales of aircraft and $3.1 million from
      the sale of certain financial assets.   (Footnotes continued on next page)


 
/(5)/ Includes leased aircraft.

/(6)/ Includes certain estimates for Morris.

/(7)/ Excludes merger expenses of $10.8 million.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     Management's Discussion and Analysis listed in the accompanying Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements on Page F-1 is filed as part of this annual
report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, and Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, listed in the
accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 are filed as
part of this annual report.

     The amounts shown on the following table differ from those previously
reported in Southwest's Form 10-Q's filed in respect of the 1993 periods shown
below.  These differences are solely due to Southwest's acquisition of Morris,
which was accounted for as a pooling of interests.  See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
                    (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

________________

/(1)/ Excludes cumulative effect of accounting changes.


 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
         DISCLOSURE

         None to be reported.


                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     See "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by reference, from pages
1-4 of the definitive Proxy Statement for Southwest's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995.  See "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I following Item 4 for information relating to executive
officers.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     See "Compensation of Executive Officers," incorporated herein by reference,
from pages 6-9 of the definitive Proxy Statement for Southwest's Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     See "Voting Securities and Principal Shareholders," incorporated herein by
reference, from pages 4-5 of the definitive Proxy Statement for Southwest's
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     See "Election of Directors" incorporated herein by reference, from pages 1-
4 of the definitive Proxy Statement for Southwest's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 18, 1995.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.          Financial Statements: The financial statements listed in the
                 accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page
                 F-1 are filed as part of this annual report.

     2.          Financial Statement Schedules:

                 There are no financial statement schedules filed as part of
                 this annual report, since the required information is included
                 in the consolidated financial statements, including the notes
                 thereto, or the circumstances requiring inclusion of such
                 schedules are not present.


 
     3.   Exhibits:

          3.1    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Southwest (incorporated
                 by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Southwest's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 33-52155)).

          3.2    Bylaws of Southwest, as amended through February 1994
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Southwest's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File
                 No. 1-7259)).

          4.1    Credit Agreement dated December 15, 1990, between Southwest and
                 Texas Commerce Bank - Dallas, N.A., as agent for itself and
                 four other banks named therein, and such banks (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4.1 on Southwest's Current Report on Form
                 8-K dated February 14, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)); First Amendment
                 to Credit Agreement, dated April 4, 1991 and Second Amendment
                 to Credit Agreement, dated December 14, 1991 (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259));
                 Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated December 14, 1992
                 (incorporated by reference in Exhibit 4.1 to Southwest's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 (File
                 No. 1-7259)); Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated
                 December 14, 1993.

          4.2    Specimen certificate representing Common Stock of Southwest.

          4.3    Indenture dated as of December 1, 1985 between Southwest and
                 MBank Dallas, N.A., Trustee, relating to an unlimited amount of
                 Debt Securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of
                 Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 26, 1986
                 (File No. 1-7259)) and First Supplemental Indenture dated as of
                 January 21, 1988, substituting MTrust Corp, National
                 Association, as Trustee, thereunder (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.3 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1987 (File 1-7259)).

          4.4    Rights Agreement dated July 14, 1986 between Southwest and
                 MBank Dallas, N.A., as Rights Agent (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 1, Southwest's Registration Statement on Form 8-A
                 dated July 15, 1986 (File No. 1-7259)) and Amendment No. 1 to
                 Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1990 between
                 Southwest and Ameritrust Texas N.A. (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.2 on Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 February 14, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.5    Indenture dated as of June 20, 1991 between Southwest Airlines
                 Co. and NationsBank of Texas, N.A. (formerly NCNB Texas
                 National Bank), Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                 4.1 to Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 24,
                 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.6    Form of 9.4 percent Note due 2001 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4.2 to Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 June 24, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).


 
          4.7    Form of 8-3/4 percent Note due 2003 (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.2 to Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 October 4, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.9    Form of 9-1/4 percent Note due 1998 (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.9 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.10   Form of 7-7/8 percent Note due 2007 (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.10 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.11   Form of Global Security representing all 8 percent Notes due
                 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Southwest's
                 current Report on Form 8-K dated March 6, 1995 (File No. 1-
                 7259)).

          10.1   Purchase Agreement No. 1510, dated July 22, 1988 between The
                 Boeing Company and Southwest (with all amendments through March
                 29, 1990) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 on
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments from April 1,
                 1990 through March 29, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.1 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.2   General Terms Agreement between CFM International, Inc. and
                 Southwest (with all amendments through March 29, 1990) dated
                 May 28, 1981 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 on
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments from November
                 6, 1989 through March 29, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.2 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments
                 from March 29, 1993 through March 29, 1994 (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259));
                 Amendment No. 7 and Letter Agreement No. 11, each dated as of
                 January 19, 1994.

          10.3   Purchase Agreement No. 1405, dated July 23, 1987 between The
                 Boeing Company and Southwest (with all amendments through March
                 29, 1990) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 on
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments from April 1,
                 1990 through March 29, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.3 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments
                 from March 29, 1993 through March 29, 1994 (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259));
                 Amendments from March 30, 1994 through March 29, 1995.

          10.4   Purchase Agreement No. 1810, dated January 19, 1994 between The
                 Boeing Company and Southwest (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.4 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259)).


 
          The following exhibits filed under paragraph 10 of Item 601 are the
          Company's compensation plans and arrangements.

          10.5   1985 stock option agreements between Southwest and Herbert D.
                 Kelleher (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                 Southwest's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                 September 30, 1985 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.6   Form of Executive Employment Agreement between Southwest and
                 certain key employees pursuant to Executive Service Recognition
                 Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28 to Southwest
                 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                 1987 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.7   1992 employment contract between Southwest and Herbert D.
                 Kelleher and related stock option agreements (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.8   1987 stock option agreement between Southwest and Herbert D.
                 Kelleher (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-7259)).
 
          10.9   1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-
                 40652)).

          10.10  1991 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No.
                 33-40652)).

          10.11  1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan as amended May 20, 1992
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Southwest's
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
                 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.12  Southwest Airlines Co. Profit Sharing Plan (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.13  Southwest Airlines Co. 401(k) Plan (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 10.14 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.14  Southwest Airlines Co. 1995 SWAPA Non-Qualified Stock Option
                 Plan.

          11     Computation of earnings per share.

          22     Subsidiaries of Southwest.

          23     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

          27     Financial Data Schedule.

     Southwest will furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy
of each other instrument with respect to the long-term debt of the Company.


 
     A copy of each exhibit may be obtained at a price of 15 cents per page,
$10.00 minimum order, by writing to:  Director of Investor Relations, Southwest
Airlines Co., P.O. Box 36611, Dallas, Texas 75235-1611.

(b)  There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 1994.


 
                  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                      F-1

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

INDUSTRY CONDITIONS

The 1990s have been devastating financially for the domestic passenger airline
industry, with Southwest as the sole exception among larger carriers. Since
1990, the industry has been shrinking and we have been expanding. We are now
carrying more than twice the number of passengers annually than in 1990, an
annualized growth rate of 21 percent. In 1993, with the advent of Continental
Lite and plans laid for the United Shuttle, the competitive trend away from
Southwest began to reverse. In 1994, in the face of our own aggressive
expansion, we experienced a massive increase of new competitive service from
United, Continental, Reno, and TWA. We also were negatively impacted by the
industry's use of persistent fare sales during the fourth quarter, which
occurred at a time when we were aggressively converting Morris Air Corporation
(Morris) to Southwest's operations and were experiencing operating difficulties
of our own in reservations and revenue management. The result was a 47 percent
decline in earnings in fourth quarter 1994 as compared to fourth quarter 1993.
Many of the operational issues that surfaced during fourth quarter 1994 have
been, or will soon be, addressed, most notably reservations capacity. However,
some of their effects will carry over into the first two quarters of 1995, and,
further, we cannot predict the actions of our competitors.

In response to these increasing competitive pressures, we implemented several
measures.  However, we face significantly more competition than we did a year
ago, which may also continue to adversely affect comparisons to 1994 quarterly
performances, particularly in first half 1995.

As compared to year ago levels, load factors and passenger revenue yields are
currently down (the consolidated load factor for January 1995 was 57.8 percent,
compared with 63.1 percent for the same month a year ago).  Our expectation is
that this trend will continue at least during first half 1995.  As expected, the
integration of Morris into Southwest during 1994, which included 21 aircraft and
seven new cities, resulted in our immediate competitive presence in the
northwestern region of the U.S. and Salt Lake City.  However, these new markets,
which are in the development stage and, therefore, understandably low-yielding,
will need to improve for overall yields to compare favorably to year ago levels.
While there is no way to predict precisely how fast these markets will develop,
we are encouraged by the pace thus far. We have also been encouraged with
Customer acceptance of recent price increases, which may improve yield
comparisons.

                                      F-2


 
From an operating cost perspective, we have been pleased with recent favorable
trends versus year ago levels, including fuel prices.  Our goal is to continue
this trend in 1995, despite our basic lack of control over fuel prices.
Significant cost reduction opportunities lie in distribution costs.  Ticketless
travel, the new SABRE Basic Booking Request, our enhanced Ticket By Mail
product, and expanded reservations operations should all combine to help reduce
distribution costs. During 1995, we currently plan to add twenty-seven 737-300
aircraft to our fleet and one new city, Omaha, Nebraska, to our route system,
which will allow us to focus on strengthening our existing route system.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1994 COMPARED WITH 1993  The Company's consolidated net income for 1994 was
$179.3 million ($1.22 per share), as compared to the corresponding 1993 amount
(before the cumulative effect of accounting changes) of $154.3 million ($1.05
per share), an increase of 16.2 percent.  The increase in earnings was primarily
attributable to an increase in operating income of 8.5 percent and a decrease in
other expenses (nonoperating) of 46.9 percent.

Operating Revenues  Consolidated operating revenues increased by 12.9 percent in
1994 to $2,591.9 million, compared to $2,296.7 million for 1993.  This increase
in 1994 operating revenues was derived from a 12.7 percent increase in passenger
revenues.  Revenue passenger miles (RPMs) increased 14.8 percent in 1994,
compared to a 16.8 percent increase in available seat miles (ASMs), resulting in
a decrease in load factor from 68.4 percent in 1993 to 67.3 percent in 1994.
The 1994 ASM growth resulted from the addition of 21 aircraft during 1994.

Freight revenues in 1994 were $54.4 million, compared to $42.9 million in 1993.
The 26.9 percent increase in freight revenues exceeded the 16.8 percent increase
in ASMs for the same period primarily due to increased air freight volumes and
United States mail services.

Operating Expenses  Consolidated operating expenses for 1994 were $2,275.2
million, compared to $2,004.7 million in 1993, an increase of 13.5 percent,
compared to the 16.8 percent increase in ASMs. On a per-ASM basis, operating
expenses (excluding 1993 merger expenses) decreased 2.3 percent in 1994.  The
primary factors contributing to this decrease were an 8.8 percent decrease in
average jet fuel cost per gallon and lower agency commission costs, offset by
increased aircraft rentals.

                                      F-3


 
Operating expenses per ASM for 1994 and 1993 (excluding 1993 merger expenses)
were as follows:




Salaries, wages, and benefits per ASM increased only .5 percent in 1994.  This
increase resulted from a 3.0 percent increase in  average salary and benefits
cost per Employee, partially offset by slower average headcount growth, which
increased only 13.8 percent in 1994 versus the 1994 capacity (ASM) increase of
16.8 percent.  The majority of the increase in average salary and benefits cost
related to increased health benefits and workers' compensation costs.  Employee
productivity improved from 2,633 passengers handled per Employee in 1993 to
2,676 in 1994.

Profitsharing and Employee savings plan expenses per ASM increased 4.8 percent
in 1994.  The increase is primarily the result of increased matching
contributions to Employee savings plans resulting from increased Employee
participation and higher matching rates in 1994 for Flight Attendants and
Customer Service Employees under their respective collective bargaining
agreements.

Fuel and oil expenses per ASM decreased 9.9 percent in 1994, primarily due to an
8.8 percent reduction in the average jet fuel cost per gallon from 1993. Jet
fuel prices remained relatively stable throughout 1994, with quarterly averages
ranging from 

                                      F-4


 
$0.51 to $0.56 per gallon. Since year-end, fuel prices have averaged
approximately $0.54 per gallon.

In August 1993, the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993 was enacted, which, among
other things, included an increase of 4.3 cents per gallon in transportation
fuel tax, which becomes effective September 30, 1995, for jet fuel used in
commercial aviation.  This additional fuel tax will increase fuel expenses
approximately $7.5 million in fourth quarter 1995.

Maintenance materials and repairs per ASM was unchanged in 1994 compared to
1993.

Agency commissions per ASM decreased 11.3 percent due to a lower mix of travel
agency sales and lower 1994 passenger revenue per ASM.  The lower travel agency
sales mix resulted from 1994 enhancements to Southwest's ticket delivery systems
for direct Customers, as described below.

In response to actions taken by our competitor-owned reservations systems, we
reduced our operating costs and enhanced our ticket delivery systems by
developing our own Southwest Airlines Air Travel ("SWAT") system allowing high-
volume travel agents direct access to reservations; introduced overnight ticket
delivery for travel agents; reduced to three the number of advance days
reservations required for overnight delivery of tickets to customers (Ticket By
Mail); developed our own Ticketless system, which was rolled out system-wide on
January 31, 1995; and subscribed to a new level of service with SABRE that will
automate the booking process for SABRE travel agencies effective May 1, 1995.
We also continue to actively pursue other cost-effective solutions for
automating non-SABRE travel agency bookings.

Aircraft rentals per ASM increased 7.7 percent in 1994.  The increase primarily
resulted from a third quarter 1994 sale/leaseback transaction involving ten new
737-300 aircraft and a lease of three used aircraft under long-term operating
leases. At December 31, 1994, 44.7 percent of the Company's fleet was subject to
operating leases, compared to 43.3 percent at December 31, 1993.

Other operating expenses per ASM decreased 2.2 percent in 1994 compared to 1993.
The overall decrease is primarily attributable to operating efficiencies
resulting from the transition of Morris operational functions to Southwest,
primarily contract services which decreased $8.8 million (24.4 percent per ASM),
offset by an increase in advertising costs of $24.1 million (22.9 percent per
ASM) primarily associated with the start-up of seven new cities and new
competitive pressures in 1994.

                                      F-5


 
Other "Other expenses (income)" included interest expense, interest income, and
nonoperating gains and losses.  Interest expense decreased $5.1 million in 1994
due to the March 1, 1993 redemption of $100 million senior unsecured notes due
1996 and the repayment of approximately $54.0 million of Morris long-term debt
during first quarter 1994.  Capitalized interest increased $8.6 million in 1994
as a result of higher levels of advance payments on aircraft compared to 1993.
Interest income for 1994 decreased $1.9 million primarily due to lower cash
balances available for short-term investment.

Income Taxes  The provision for income taxes decreased in 1994 as a percentage
of income before taxes, including cumulative effect of accounting changes, to
40.1 percent from 40.6 percent in 1993.  The 1993 rate was higher due to
deferred tax adjustments in 1993 related to the 1993 increase in the federal
corporate income tax rate from 34 percent to 35 percent(see Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements).  This was offset by increased 1994 effective
state income tax rates.

1993 COMPARED WITH 1992  Prior to 1993, Morris operated as a charter carrier.
In 1993, Morris began operating as a FAR 121 Certificated Air Carrier, or
scheduled service carrier, consistent with Southwest.  For comparability from
1993 to 1992, the statistical and operating data for 1992 are based on scheduled
passenger service only (i.e., Southwest).  Accordingly, RPMs and ASMs for 1992
relate only to scheduled carrier operations.

The Company's consolidated income for the year 1993 was $154.3 million ($1.05
per share), before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, compared to pro
forma consolidated income of $97.4 million ($.68 per share) for 1992, an
increase of 58.4 percent. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to
an increase in operating income of 50.7 percent and was achieved despite an
increase in the federal income tax rate, which increased the provision for
income taxes $6.5 million, or $.04 per share.

Operating Revenues    Consolidated operating revenues increased by 27.4 percent
in 1993 to  $2,296.7 million.  Operating revenue per ASM for scheduled service
carrier operations increased in 1993 to $.0835 from $.0789 in 1992.  The
increase in consolidated operating revenues was primarily related to a 36.5
percent increase in passenger revenues, which accounted for 96.5 percent of
total operating revenues in 1993 versus 90.1 percent in 1992.

Consolidated RPMs increased 36.6 percent in 1993, which exceeded
the 28.8 percent increase in ASMs, resulting in an increase in the
load factor from 64.5 percent to 68.4 percent. The 1993 ASM

                                      F-6


 
increase resulted from the conversion of the Morris system from charter to
scheduled service and the addition of 16 aircraft to the Southwest fleet.  The
additional 16 Southwest aircraft were primarily used to expand California, St.
Louis, and Chicago markets and to initiate service from Louisville, Baltimore,
and San Jose.

Freight revenues increased in 1993 to $42.9 million from $33.1 million in 1992.
The 29.6 percent increase in freight revenues exceeded the 28.8 percent ASM
increase primarily due to further expansion of United States mail services and
increased freight marketing programs.

Charter and other revenues decreased in 1993 from 1992 on a consolidated basis
as Morris converted its operations in 1993 to scheduled service from charter
operations. In 1993, consistent with the beginning of scheduled carrier service,
Morris revenues were primarily derived from scheduled operations and,
accordingly, classified as "passenger" revenues. Morris charter revenues totaled
$117.8 million in 1992.

Operating Expenses    Consolidated operating expenses increased 24.6 percent to
$2,004.7 million from $1,609.2 million in 1992. The primary factors contributing
to the increase were the 28.8 percent increase in ASMs; increased contributions
to profitsharing and Employee savings plans; higher agency commissions; higher
aircraft rentals; and increased maintenance costs.

On a consolidated basis, the Company incurred $10.8 million of one-time merger
expenses in connection with the December 1993 Morris acquisition. These expenses
included $1.9 million of various professional fees; $4.7 million for disposal of
duplicate or incompatible property and equipment; and $4.2 million for Employee
relocation and severance costs related to elimination of duplicate or
incompatible operations. As required for financial reporting purposes, these
expenses have been reported as operating expenses.

Salaries, wages, and benefits per ASM decreased 2.3 percent in 1993. Excluding
the effects of Morris, Southwest's cost per ASM for salaries, wages, and
benefits increased .9 percent from 1992 to 1993.  This increase resulted from a
2.2 percent increase in salaries and wages, offset by a 5.0 percent decrease in
health benefit and workers' compensation costs per ASM.  Headcount for Southwest
increased 17.0 percent in 1993, slightly more than the 15.9 percent increase in
ASMs.  However, Employee productivity improved to 2,633 passengers handled per
Employee in 1993 from 2,597 in 1992.

Morris contracted out all ground handling services, which are included in "other
operating expenses."  Consequently, salaries, wages, and benefits on a per-ASM
basis are considerably lower for 

                                      F-7


 
Morris than for Southwest contributing to the decrease in consolidated salaries,
wages, and benefits per ASM.

Profitsharing and Employee savings plan expenses per ASM increased 16.7 percent
in 1993. The increase was primarily the result of higher earnings in 1993. For
additional information, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fuel and oil expenses per ASM decreased 2.6 percent in 1993 due to a 2.7 percent
reduction in the average cost per gallon of jet fuel from 1992. Jet fuel prices
remained relatively stable throughout 1993, continuing the trend which began in
1992, with quarterly averages ranging from $0.57 to $0.63 per gallon.

Maintenance materials and repairs per ASM increased 5.4 percent in 1993. This
increase was primarily the result of higher airframe component repairs and
higher amortization of capitalized scheduled airframe overhauls.

Agency commissions per ASM increased 6.0 percent in 1993 primarily due to
increased passenger revenues per ASM.

Aircraft rentals per ASM increased 30.0 percent in 1993. The increase was
primarily attributable to the expansion of Morris scheduled operations, which
leased 18 of its 21 aircraft, 11 of which were leased in 1993. Additionally, the
increase partially resulted from the sale/leaseback financing by Southwest,
since late 1992, of seven 737-300 aircraft with long-term operating leases. Also
in 1993, Southwest leased one used 737-300 aircraft under a long-term operating
lease and one used 737-200 aircraft under a short-term operating lease.

Depreciation expense per ASM decreased 8.5 percent in 1993 due to the expansion
of Morris, which, as stated above, consisted primarily of a leased aircraft
fleet.

Other operating expenses per ASM increased 13.8 percent from 1992 to 1993. This
increase is primarily the result of higher usage of contract services at Morris.
As previously discussed, Morris contracted for all ground handling service,
along with various other services that are handled internally at Southwest.

Other   "Other expenses(income)" included interest expense, interest income, and
nonoperating gains and losses. Interest expense, net of capitalized interest,
decreased 7.0 percent in 1993 due to the March 1, 1993 early redemption of $100
million in senior unsecured 9% Notes due 1996. See Note 6 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information. Net nonoperating losses in 1993
resulted from the write-down of certain internal system development costs and
the settlement of certain employment-

                                      F-8


 
related litigation for $1.7 million.

Income Taxes   The provision for income taxes increased in 1993, as a percentage
of income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting changes, to
40.6 percent from pro forma 38.1 percent in 1992. The increase was primarily the
result of the increase in the federal income tax rate. See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash provided from operations was $412.7 million in 1994, compared to $392.7
million in 1993.  During 1994, additional funds of $315.0 million were generated
from the sale and leaseback of ten new 737-300 aircraft subject to long-term
operating leases (increasing total commitments for operating leases by $619.0
million).

During 1994, capital expenditures of $788.6 million were primarily for the
purchase of 18 new 737-300 aircraft, one used 737-300 aircraft previously leased
by Morris, and progress payments for future aircraft deliveries. At December 31,
1994, capital commitments of the Company consisted primarily of scheduled
aircraft acquisitions.

As of January 1995, Southwest had one-hundred-sixteen 737s on firm order,
including twenty-five to be delivered in 1995, with options to purchase another
seventy-four.  Aggregate funding required for firm commitments  approximated
$3,042.7 million through the year 2001 of which $602.6 million related to 1995.
See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

The Company recently completed the construction of a $10.0 million reservation
center in Little Rock, Arkansas, which began accepting calls on January 24,
1995, and announced that it will build an additional reservation center in
Oklahoma City scheduled to open in second quarter 1995.  Total estimated cost of
the new Oklahoma City reservation center is approximately $10.0 million.

As of December 31, 1994 and since 1990, the Company had authority from its Board
of Directors to purchase 3,750,000 shares of its common stock from time-to-time
on the open market. No shares have been purchased since 1990.

The Company has various options available to meet its capital and operating
commitments, including cash on hand at December 31, 1994 of $174.5 million,
internally generated funds, and a revolving credit line with a group of banks of
up to $300 million (none of which had been drawn at December 31, 1994). In
addition, the 

                                      F-9


 
Company will also consider various borrowing or leasing options to maximize
earnings and supplement cash requirements.

At yearend, the Company had outstanding shelf registrations for the issuance of
$100 million senior unsecured notes and $98 million pass-through certificates
relating to sale/leaseback transactions. The Company presently intends to
utilize these sources of financing during 1995.

Cash provided from operations was $392.7 million in 1993 as compared to $282.1
million in 1992. During 1993, additional funds of $90.0 million were generated
from the sale and leaseback of three new 737-300 aircraft subject to long-term
operating leases (increasing total commitments for operating leases by $145.0
million). Morris also generated $17.8 million from certain bank borrowings.
These proceeds were primarily used to finance aircraft-related capital
expenditures and to provide working capital.

                                     F-10


 
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

                                     F-11


 
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

                                     F-12


 
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993, AND 1992
(IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                                     F-13


 


SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

                                     F-14


 
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(IN THOUSANDS)

 
 
                                     F-15


 


 SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

                                     F-16


 
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 1994


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of presentation  The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Southwest Airlines Co. (Southwest) and its wholly owned subsidiaries
(the Company). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated.  Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for comparison
purposes.

Cash and cash equivalents    Cash equivalents consist of investment grade
commercial paper issued by major financial institutions that are highly liquid
and have original maturity dates of three months or less.  Cash and cash
equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates market value.

Inventories  Inventories of flight equipment expendable parts, materials, and
supplies are carried at average cost. These items are charged to expense when
issued for use.

Property and equipment  Depreciation is provided by the straight-line method to
residual values over periods ranging from 15 to 20 years for flight equipment
(see Note 3) and 3 to 30 years for ground property and equipment. Property under
capital leases and related obligations are recorded at an amount equal to the
present value of future minimum lease payments computed on the basis of the
lessee's incremental borrowing rate or, when known, the interest rate implicit
in the lease. Amortization of property under capital leases is on a straight-
line basis over the lease term and is included in depreciation expense.

Aircraft and engine maintenance  The cost of engine overhauls and routine
maintenance costs for aircraft and engine maintenance are charged to maintenance
expense as incurred.  Scheduled airframe overhaul costs are capitalized at
amounts not to exceed the fair market value of the related aircraft and
amortized over the estimated periods benefited, presently 8 years.
Modifications that significantly enhance the operating performance or extend the
useful lives of aircraft or engines are capitalized and amortized over the
remaining life of the asset.

Revenue recognition    Passenger revenue is recognized when the transportation
is provided. Tickets sold but not yet used are included in "Air traffic
liability."

                                     F-17


 
Frequent flyer awards The Company accrues the estimated incremental cost of
providing free travel awards earned under its Company Club Frequent Flyer
program.

Advertising  The Company expenses the production costs of advertising as
incurred.  Advertising expense for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and
1992 was $79,475,000, $55,344,000, and $42,068,000, respectively.

2.  ACQUISITION

On December 31, 1993, Southwest exchanged 3,574,656 newly issued shares of its
common stock for all of the outstanding stock of Morris Air Corporation
(Morris), a low-fare commercial/charter air carrier based in Salt Lake City.
The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly,
the Company's consolidated financial statements were restated to include the
accounts and operations of Morris for all periods prior to the acquisition.

Prior to 1993, Morris was treated as an S-Corporation for federal and state
income tax purposes under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
various state tax laws.  Therefore, no provision for income taxes was made prior
to 1993.  Morris made regular cash distributions to its shareholders sufficient
to meet their tax liabilities.  Upon termination of S-Corporation status on
December 31, 1992, the undistributed S-Corporation retained earnings were
reclassified to capital in excess of par value.  Additionally, Morris
established $3,032,000 of deferred income taxes for the cumulative differences
in the timing of reporting certain items for financial statement and income tax
purposes.  These deferred taxes related primarily to depreciation.  The
establishment of deferred taxes was offset by a reduction of capital in excess
of par value.

Merger expenses of $10,803,000 relating to the merger of Southwest and Morris
have been included in 1993 operating expenses as required for financial
reporting purposes; however, these expenses have been separately reported as
"merger expenses" to reflect the impact of the nonrecurring expenses on
operating results.  Included in these one-time costs resulting from the merger
were $1,900,000 of various professional fees; $4,703,000 for disposal of
duplicate or incompatible property and equipment; and $4,200,000 for Employee
relocation and severance costs related to elimination of duplicate or
incompatible operations.  During 1994, the integration of Morris into Southwest
was substantially completed, including the disposal of incompatible property and
equipment and settlement of Employee relocation and severance costs.

                                     F-18


 
3. ACCOUNTING CHANGES

Income Taxes  Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (SFAS
109). As a result of adopting SFAS 109, the Company recorded deferred tax assets
of $6,977,000 and reduced deferred tax liabilities by $9,048,000 at January 1,
1993, which resulted in an increase to the Company's 1993 net income of
$16,025,000 ($.11 per share) for the cumulative effect of the accounting change.

Postretirement Benefits    Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" (SFAS 106).  The cumulative effect
of this change in accounting method at January 1, 1993 reduced 1993 net income
by $766,000 (net of benefit from income taxes of $469,000) or $.01 per share.
The effect of adopting SFAS 106 on 1993 income before cumulative effect of
accounting changes was not material.

Scheduled Airframe Overhauls    Prior to January 1, 1992, the Company expensed
scheduled airframe overhaul costs as incurred.  This practice was adopted at a
time when costs were relatively constant from year to year and consistent with
the growth of the fleet.
 
Given the significant growth of the Company's fleet and the Company's 1991
modification of its airframe overhaul maintenance program with the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA), Southwest changed its method of accounting for
scheduled airframe overhauls costs from the direct expense method to that of
capitalizing and amortizing the costs over the periods benefited.  The Company
believes this method is preferable because it results in charges to expense that
are consistent with the growth in the fleet; improves financial reporting; and
better matches revenues and expenses.

For the year ended December 31, 1992, the Company recognized approximately
$6,900,000 in amortization of airframe overhaul expense.  Had the direct expense
method been used to provide for scheduled airframe overhaul costs during the
year ended December 31, 1992, income before cumulative effect of accounting
change would have been reduced by approximately $9,800,000 (net of provision for
income taxes and profitsharing of approximately $8,800,000), or approximately
$.07 per share.

This change in accounting principle had the effect of a one-time adjustment
increasing net income for the year ended December 31, 1992 by approximately
$12,538,000 (net of provision for income taxes and profitsharing of
approximately $11,500,000).

                                     F-19


 
Change in Accounting Estimate    Effective January 1, 1992, the Company revised
the estimated useful lives of its 737-200 aircraft from 15 years to 15-19 years.
This change was the result of the Company's assessment of the remaining useful
lives of its 737-200 aircraft following the recent promulgation of rules by the
FAA for the phase out of Stage 2 aircraft by December 31, 1999.  The effect of
this change was to reduce depreciation expense approximately $3,680,000, or $.03
per share, for the year ended December 31, 1992.

4. COMMITMENTS

The Company's contractual purchase commitments consist primarily of scheduled
aircraft acquisitions. Twenty-five 737-300 aircraft are scheduled for delivery
in 1995, 18 in 1996, and ten in 1997. Four 737-700s are scheduled for delivery
in 1997, 16 in 1998, 16 in 1999, 15 in 2000, and 12 in 2001.  In addition, the
Company has options to purchase up to eleven 737-300s in 1997 and up to sixty-
three 737-700s during 1998-2004. The Company has the option, which must be
exercised two years prior to the contractual delivery date, to substitute 737-
400s or 737-500s for the 737-300s to be delivered during 1997 and 737-600s or
737-800s for the 737-700s delivered subsequent to 1999. Aggregate funding needed
for these commitments was approximately $3,042.7 million, subject to adjustments
for inflation, due as follows: $602.6 million in 1995, $489.5 million in 1996,
$447.8 million in 1997, $445.4 million in 1998, $452.9 million in 1999, $366.0
million in 2000, and $238.5 million in 2001.  In addition, the Company has an
agreement in principle to lease two used 737-300 aircraft in 1995.

The Company uses jet fuel fixed price swap arrangements to hedge its exposure to
price fluctuations on approximately 5 percent of its annual fuel requirements.
As of December 31, 1994, the Company had jet fuel swap agreements with broker-
dealers to exchange monthly payments on notional quantities amounting to
2,100,000 gallons per month, over the ensuing three months.  Under the swap
agreements, the Company pays or receives the difference between the daily
average jet fuel price and a fixed price of approximately $.518 per gallon.
Gains and losses on such transactions are recorded as adjustments to fuel
expense and have been insignificant.  Although the agreements expose the Company
to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other parties to the
agreements, the Company does not anticipate such nonperformance.

                                     F-20


 


                                     F-21


 
On March 1, 1993, the Company redeemed the $100 million in senior unsecured 9%
Notes due March 1, 1996 issued in March 1986. The Notes were redeemed at par
plus accrued interest.

On September 9, 1992, Southwest issued $100 million of senior unsecured 7 7/8%
Notes due September 1, 2007.  Interest is payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September 1.  The Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity.

During 1991, the Company issued $100 million of senior unsecured 9 1/4% Notes,
$100 million of senior unsecured 9.4% Notes, and $100 million of senior
unsecured 8 3/4% Notes due February 15, 1998, July 1, 2001, and October 15,
2003, respectively. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually. The Notes
are not redeemable by the Company prior to maturity.

The fair values, based on quoted market prices, of these Notes at December 31,
1994, were as follows (in thousands):



In 1992, certain Convertible Subordinated Debentures issued by Southwest
Airlines Eurofinance N.V. were redeemed.  The principal amount of $35,000,000
was converted into 1,370,902 shares (unadjusted for the 1993 and 1992 stock
splits) of Southwest's common stock at the conversion price of $25.53 per share.
The conversion was primarily a noncash transaction and, therefore, was excluded
from the Statement of Cash Flows.

In addition to the credit facilities described above, Southwest has an unsecured
Bank Credit Agreement with a group of domestic banks that permits Southwest to
borrow through December 14, 1996 on a revolving credit basis up to $300 million.
Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement can be, at the option of
Southwest, the agent bank's prime rate, .30% over LIBOR, or .50% over domestic
certificate of deposit rates. The commitment fee is 0.1875% per annum. There
were no outstanding borrowings under this agreement at December 31, 1994 or
1993.

7. LEASES

Total rental expense for operating leases charged to operations in 1994, 1993,
and 1992 was $198,987,000, $167,303,000, and $125,835,000, respectively. The
majority of the Company's terminal 

                                     F-22


 
operations space, as well as 89 aircraft, were under operating leases. The
amounts applicable to capital leases included in property and equipment were (in
thousands):



Future minimum lease payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating
leases, with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year, at December 31,
1994, were (in thousands):



The aircraft leases can generally be renewed at rates, based on fair market
value at the end of the lease term, for one to five years.  Most aircraft leases
have purchase options at or near the end of  the lease term at fair market
value, but generally not to exceed a stated percentage of the lessor's defined
cost of the aircraft.

                                     F-23


 
8. COMMON STOCK

At December 31, 1994, the Company had common stock reserved for issuance
pursuant to Employee stock benefit plans (12,009,293 shares) and upon exercise
of rights pursuant to the Common Stock Rights Agreement (Agreement), as amended
(155,265,088 shares).

Pursuant to the Agreement, each outstanding share of the Company's common stock
is accompanied by one common share purchase right (Right). Each Right entitles
its holder to purchase one share of common stock at an exercise price of $16.67
and is exercisable only in the event of a proposed takeover, as defined by the
Agreement. The Company may redeem the Rights at $.0111 per Right prior to the
time that 20 percent of the common stock has been acquired by a person or group.
If the Company is acquired or if certain self-dealing transactions occur, as
defined in the Agreement, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase for
$16.67 that number of the acquiring company's or the Company's common shares, as
provided in the Agreement, having a market value of two times the exercise price
of the Right. The Rights will expire no later than July 30, 1996.
 
On May 19, 1993, the Company's Board of Directors declared a three-for-two stock
split, distributing 46,325,147 shares on July 15, 1993.  On May 20, 1992, the
Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split, distributing
46,180,531 shares on July 15, 1992.
 
In February 1992, the Company sold 2,500,000 shares (unadjusted for the
subsequent 1993 and 1992 stock splits) of its common stock (2,327,892 new shares
and 172,108 shares from treasury) in a public offering.  Net proceeds from the
sale of approximately $86,946,000 were added to the working capital of the
Company for general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of aircraft
and related equipment.

9. STOCK PLANS

In May 1991, the Company's stockholders approved the Incentive Stock Option Plan
and the Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. Under the Incentive Stock Option Plan,
options to purchase a maximum of 9,000,000 shares of Southwest common stock may
be granted to key Employees. Under the Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, options
to purchase up to 750,000 shares of Southwest common stock may be granted to key
Employees and non-employee directors. Under each plan, the option price per
share may not be less than the fair market value of a share on the date the
option is granted and the maximum term of an option may not exceed 10 years.

                                     F-24


 
Information regarding the stock option plans is summarized below:

 

                                     F-25


 


        *Includes 108,113 pre-split shares and 36,115 post-split shares, of
         which 5,476 pre-split shares and 72 post-split shares were issued from
         treasury.
       **Includes 12,740 pre-split shares and 75,700 post-split shares.


The exercise price of outstanding options ranged from $6.02 to $37.44 in 1994,
$6.02 to $19.71 in 1993, and $6.02 to $12.06 in 1992.

In 1991, the Company's stockholders also approved the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan that provides for the sale of common stock to Employees of the Company at a
price equal to 90% of the market value at the end of each purchase period.
Common stock purchases are paid for through periodic payroll deductions.
Participants under the plan received 290,054 shares in 1994, 182,459 shares
(59,442 pre-split shares and 93,296 post-split shares) in 1993 and 166,436
shares in 1992 at average prices of $24.98, $25.25, and $12.89, respectively.

At December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992, 1,489,753, 1,504,752, and 1,512,252
options to purchase the Company's common stock were also outstanding related to
employment contracts with the Company's president and chief executive officer.
Exercise prices range from $1.00 to $11.33 per share. Options for 15,000 shares,
7,500 shares (5,000 pre-split shares, of which 968 shares were issued from
treasury), and 22,500 shares were exercised in 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

Effective January 12, 1995, the Company adopted, pursuant to a collective
bargaining agreement between the Company and the Southwest Airlines Pilots'
Association (SWAPA), the 1995 SWAPA Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (SWAPA
Plan).  Under the terms of the SWAPA Plan, 18,000,000 common shares have been
reserved for issuance.  An initial grant of approximately 14.5 million shares
was made on the effective date at an option price of $20.00 per share.  On
September 1 of each year of the agreement, commencing September 1, 1996,
additional options will be granted to Pilots that became eligible during that
year at an option price equal to the fair market value of the common stock of
the Company on the date of grant plus 5 percent.  Options vest in ten annual
increments of 10 percent and must be exercised prior to January 31, 2007, or
within a specified time upon retirement or termination.  In the event that SWAPA
exercises its option to make the collective 

                                     F-26

 
bargaining agreement amendable on or before September 1, 1999, any unexercised
options will be canceled on December 1, 1999.

10. EMPLOYEE PROFITSHARING AND SAVINGS PLANS

Substantially all of Southwest's Employees are members of the Southwest Airlines
Co. Profitsharing Plan (the Plan). Total profitsharing expense charged to
operations in 1994, 1993, and 1992 was $52,782,000, $44,959,000, and
$26,363,000, respectively. The Company also elected to contribute $3,605,000 in
1992 as a result of an accounting change (see Note 3).

The Company sponsors Employee savings plans under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code. The plans cover substantially all full-time Employees. The amount
of matching contributions varies by Employee group. Company contributions
generally vest over five years with credit for prior years' service granted.
Company matching contributions expensed in 1994, 1993, and 1992 were
$19,817,000, $13,986,000, and $11,611,000, respectively.

11. INCOME TAXES

Effective January 1, 1993, the Company changed its method of accounting for
income taxes from the deferred method to the liability method as required by
SFAS 109 (see Note 3).

Under SFAS 109, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.  The components
of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are as
follows (in thousands):


                                     F-27

 
In August 1993, the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the "1993 Act") was
enacted, which contains numerous provision changes including an increase in the
federal corporate income tax rate from 34 percent to 35 percent effective
January 1, 1993.  As a result, the Company recognized approximately $4.0 million
of additional expense related to deferred tax liabilities existing on January 1,
1993.

The provision for income taxes before the cumulative effect of accounting
changes is comprised of the following (in thousands):





The components of the provision for deferred income taxes as reported under the
previous method of accounting for the year ended December 31, 1992 are as
follows (in thousands):



                                     F-28

 
In January 1994, Southwest received an examination report from the Internal
Revenue Service proposing certain adjustments to Southwest's income tax returns
for 1987 and 1988.  The adjustments relate to certain types of aircraft
financings consummated by Southwest, as well as other members of the aviation
industry during that time period.  Southwest intends to vigorously protest the
adjustments proposed with which it does not agree.  The industry's difference
with the IRS involves complex issues of law and fact that are likely to take a
substantial period of time to resolve.  Management believes that final
resolution of such protest will not have a materially adverse effect upon the
results of operations of Southwest.

The effective tax rate on income before cumulative effect of accounting changes
differed from the federal income tax statutory rate for the following reasons
(in thousands):



12.  NET INCOME PER COMMON AND COMMON EQUIVALENT SHARE

Net income per common and common equivalent share is computed based on the
weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding
(147,305,374 in 1994, 147,144,568 in 1993, and 142,945,890 in 1992). Fully
diluted earnings per share have not been presented as the fully dilutive effect
of shares issuable upon the exercise of options under the Company's Stock Option
Plans or conversion of Convertible Subordinated Debentures is anti-dilutive or
is not material.

                                     F-29

 
REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Southwest Airlines Co.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Southwest
Airlines Co. as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1994. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Southwest Airlines
Co. at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 3, during 1993, the Company changed its method of
accounting for income taxes and postretirement benefits.  Also as discussed in
Note 3, during 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for scheduled
airframe overhauls.


                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas
January 26, 1995

                                     F-30

 
                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.

March 20, 1995
                                             By /s/ GARY C. KELLY
                                                -------------------------
                                                    Gary C. Kelly
                                             Vice President-Finance,
                                             Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on March 20, 1995 on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

 

 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                               -----------------

          3.1    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Southwest (incorporated
                 by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Southwest's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 33-52155)).

          3.2    Bylaws of Southwest, as amended through February 1994
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Southwest's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File
                 No. 1-7259)).

          4.1    Credit Agreement dated December 15, 1990, between Southwest and
                 Texas Commerce Bank - Dallas, N.A., as agent for itself and
                 four other banks named therein, and such banks (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4.1 on Southwest's Current Report on Form
                 8-K dated February 14, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)); First Amendment
                 to Credit Agreement, dated April 4, 1991 and Second Amendment
                 to Credit Agreement, dated December 14, 1991 (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259));
                 Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated December 14, 1992
                 (incorporated by reference in Exhibit 4.1 to Southwest's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 (File
                 No. 1-7259)); Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated
                 December 14, 1993.

          4.2    Specimen certificate representing Common Stock of Southwest.

          4.3    Indenture dated as of December 1, 1985 between Southwest and
                 MBank Dallas, N.A., Trustee, relating to an unlimited amount of
                 Debt Securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of
                 Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 26, 1986
                 (File No. 1-7259)) and First Supplemental Indenture dated as of
                 January 21, 1988, substituting MTrust Corp, National
                 Association, as Trustee, thereunder (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.3 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1987 (File 1-7259)).

          4.4    Rights Agreement dated July 14, 1986 between Southwest and
                 MBank Dallas, N.A., as Rights Agent (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 1, Southwest's Registration Statement on Form 8-A
                 dated July 15, 1986 (File No. 1-7259)) and Amendment No. 1 to
                 Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1990 between
                 Southwest and Ameritrust Texas N.A. (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.2 on Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 February 14, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.5    Indenture dated as of June 20, 1991 between Southwest Airlines
                 Co. and NationsBank of Texas, N.A. (formerly NCNB Texas
                 National Bank), Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                 4.1 to Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 24,
                 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.6    Form of 9.4 percent Note due 2001 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4.2 to Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 June 24, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.7    Form of 8-3/4 percent Note due 2003 (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.2 to Southwest's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 October 4, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.9    Form of 9-1/4 percent Note due 1998 (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.9 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).


                                      E-1

 
          4.10   Form of 7-7/8 percent Note due 2007 (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.10 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)).

          4.11   Form of Global Security representing all 8 percent Notes due
                 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Southwest's
                 current Report on Form 8-K dated March 6, 1995 (File No. 1-
                 7259)).

          10.1   Purchase Agreement No. 1510, dated July 22, 1988 between The
                 Boeing Company and Southwest (with all amendments through March
                 29, 1990) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 on
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments from April 1,
                 1990 through March 29, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.1 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.2   General Terms Agreement between CFM International, Inc. and
                 Southwest (with all amendments through March 29, 1990) dated
                 May 28, 1981 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 on
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments from November
                 6, 1989 through March 29, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.2 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments
                 from March 29, 1993 through March 29, 1994 (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259));
                 Amendment No. 7 and Letter Agreement No. 11, each dated as of
                 January 19, 1994.

          10.3   Purchase Agreement No. 1405, dated July 23, 1987 between The
                 Boeing Company and Southwest (with all amendments through March
                 29, 1990) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 on
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments from April 1,
                 1990 through March 29, 1993 (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.3 on Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-7259)); Amendments
                 from March 29, 1993 through March 29, 1994 (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259));
                 Amendments from March 30, 1994 through March 29, 1995.

          10.4   Purchase Agreement No. 1810, dated January 19, 1994 between The
                 Boeing Company and Southwest (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.4 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259)).

          The following exhibits filed under paragraph 10 of Item 601 are the
          Company's compensation plans and arrangements.

          10.5   1985 stock option agreements between Southwest and Herbert D.
                 Kelleher (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                 Southwest's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                 September 30, 1985 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.6   Form of Executive Employment Agreement between Southwest and
                 certain key employees pursuant to Executive Service Recognition
                 Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28 to Southwest
                 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                 1987 (File No. 1-7259)).

                                      E-2

 
          10.7   1992 employment contract between Southwest and Herbert D.
                 Kelleher and related stock option agreements (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.8   1987 stock option agreement between Southwest and Herbert D.
                 Kelleher (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
                 Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-7259)).
 
          10.9   1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-
                 40652)).

          10.10  1991 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No.
                 33-40652)).

          10.11  1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan as amended May 20, 1992
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Southwest's
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
                 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.12  Southwest Airlines Co. Profit Sharing Plan (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.13  Southwest Airlines Co. 401(k) Plan (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 10.14 to Southwest's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-7259)).

          10.14  Southwest Airlines Co. 1995 SWAPA Non-Qualified Stock Option
                 Plan.

          11     Computation of earnings per share.

          22     Subsidiaries of Southwest.

          23     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

          27     Financial Data Schedule.

                                      E-3


