ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto, the
following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business,
financial condition, cash flows or





results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This section
contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and
limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the end of Item 1 of this Annual Report.
Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely
affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.

We face various risks and uncertainties as a result of the ship hold and removal of field inventory
of all implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) and cardiac resynchronization therapy
defibrillator (CRT-D) systems offered by our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) business in the U.S.,
which we announced on March 15, 2010. Those risks and uncertainties include harm to our business,
reputation, financial condition and results of operations.

On March 15, 2010, we announced the ship hold and removal of field inventory of all ICD systems and
CRT-D systems offered by our CRM division in the U.S., after determining that certain instances of
changes in the manufacturing process related to these products were not submitted for approval to
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). We have since submitted the required documentation
and, on April 15, 2010, we resumed U.S. distribution of our COGNIS® CRT-D systems and TELIGEN® ICD
systems, and, on May 21, 2010, we resumed U.S. distribution of all of our remaining CRT-D and ICD
devices, in each case following required FDA clearance. As a result of these actions, we have
suffered and may continue to suffer loss of market share for these products in the U.S. While we
continue to work on recapturing lost market share, our on-going net sales and results of operations
will likely continue to be negatively impacted. We may be unable to minimize this impact, or to
offset with the release of future products, and we may suffer on-going harm to our reputation,
among other risks and uncertainties, each of which may have an adverse impact on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Declines in average selling prices for our products, particularly our drug-eluting coronary stent
systems, may materially adversely affect our results of operations.

We have experienced pricing pressures across many of our businesses due to competitive activity,
increased market power of our customers as the healthcare industry consolidates, economic pressures
experienced by our customers, and the impact of managed care organizations and other third-party
payors. Competitive pricing pressures, including aggressive pricing offered by market entrants,
have particularly affected our drug-eluting coronary stent system offerings. We estimate that the
average selling price of our drug-eluting stent systems in the U.S. decreased nine percent in 2010
as compared to the prior year. Continued declines in average selling prices of our products due to
pricing pressures may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

We derive a significant portion of our net sales from the sale of drug-eluting coronary stent
systems and CRM products. Declines in market size, average selling prices, procedural volumes, and
our share of the markets in which we compete; increased competition; market perceptions of studies
published by third parties; interruption in supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S.
and Japan; changes in our sales personnel; or product launch delays may materially adversely affect
our results of operations and financial condition, including potential future write-offs of our
goodwill and other intangible assets balances.





We share, with Abbott Laboratories, rights to everolimus-eluting stent technology, and are reliant
on Abbott for our supply of PROMUS®everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Any
production or capacity issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our process for
forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact our ability to increase or decrease the
level of supply to us in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems
supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand. Our supply agreement for the PROMUS®
stent system from Abbott extends through the end of the second quarter of 2012 in the U.S. and
Japan. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval and timely launch our PROMUS® Element stent
system in these regions could result in an inability to meet customer demand for everolimus-eluting
stent systems and may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

Journal of the American Medical Association

The profit margin of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott Laboratories,
including any improvements or iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply
arrangements and of the type that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre-market
approval, is significantly lower than that of our TAXUS® stent systems, TAXUS® Element™ stent
systems and PROMUS® Element™ stent systems, and an increase in sales of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott relative to TAXUS® stent system, TAXUS® Element™ stent system and
PROMUS® Element™ stent system net sales may continue to adversely impact our gross profit and
operating profit margins. The price we pay Abbott for our supply of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott is further impacted by our arrangements with Abbott and is subject
to retroactive adjustment, which may also negatively impact our profit margins.





case, with respect to our purchases of everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott. As a result,
our profit margins in the years in which we record payments related to purchases of
everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott may decrease.

Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or
the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could have
an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and
reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a
consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. This consolidation has
resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of
certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent
delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some
of our hospital customers. While our strategic initiatives include measures to address these
trends, there can be no assurance that these measures will succeed. We expect that market demand,
government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and
societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further
business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce
competition and continue to exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and
adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes
in the medical devices industry, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

The medical device markets in which we primarily participate are highly competitive. We encounter
significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold
from various medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary,
Cordis Corporation); Medtronic, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories; and St. Jude Medical, Inc.; as well as a
wide range of companies that sell a single or a limited number of competitive products or which
participate in only a specific market segment. We also face competition from non-medical device
companies, including pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease
states intended to be treated using our products.

Additionally, the medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development, and
rapid technological change. Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes
or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may
negatively impact our net sales. We are required to devote continued efforts and financial
resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, apply our
technologies cost-effectively across product lines and markets, attract and retain skilled
development personnel, obtain patent and other protection for our technologies and products, obtain
required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and successfully manufacture and market our
products consistent with our quality standards. If we fail to develop new products or enhance
existing products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.

Because we derive a significant amount of our net sales from international operations and a
significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international operations,
changes in international economic or regulatory conditions could have a material impact on our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 44 percent of our net sales in 2010.
Additionally, a significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international
operations, including from investments in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India. As a
result, our sales growth and operating profits from our international operations may be limited by
risks and uncertainties related to economic conditions in these regions, foreign currency
fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations, regulatory and reimbursement approvals, competitive
offerings, infrastructure development, rights to intellectual property and our ability to implement
our overall business strategy. Further, international markets are also being affected by economic
pressure to contain





We incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of Guidant and if we are
unable to manage our debt levels, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.

We may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units,
which could materially adversely impact our results of operations.

We test our April 1 goodwill balances for impairment during the second quarter of each year, or
more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may
exist. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and, in evaluating the
potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding estimated revenue projections,
growth rates, cash flows and discount rates. In 2010, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
$1.817 billion associated with our U.S. CRM reporting unit. In addition, as a result of signing of
a definitive agreement to sell our Neurovascular business, we performed an interim impairment test
on our international reporting units, excluding the assets of that business, and determined that
the remaining goodwill balances were not impaired. However, we have identified four reporting units
with a material amount of goodwill that are at higher risk of potential failure of the first step
of the impairment test in future reporting periods. These reporting units include our U.S. CRM
unit, our U.S. Cardiovascular unit, our U.S. Neuromodulation unit, and our EMEA region, which
together hold approximately $9 billion of allocated goodwill. Although we use consistent methodologies in
developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our
impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and





can vary from actual results. For each of these reporting units, relatively small declines in the
future performance and cash flows of the reporting unit or small changes in other key assumptions
may result future goodwill impairment charges, which could materially adversely impact our results
of operations.

Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect
our business.

As
part of our strategy to realign our business portfolio, we have
recently completed or announced  several
acquisitions and may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations
of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information
technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance.
These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time.
Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include the strength of the acquired
companies’ underlying technology and ability to execute, results of clinical trials, regulatory
approvals and reimbursement levels of the acquired products and related procedures, our ability to
adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects and retain key employees, and
our ability to achieve synergies with our acquired companies, such as increasing sales of our
products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products.
Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined acquired companies
could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the
businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so and if our acquisitions are not
successful, we may record related asset impairment charges in the future.

We may not be successful in our strategy relating to future strategic acquisitions of, investments
in, or alliances with, other companies and businesses, which have been a significant source of
historical growth for us, and will be key to our diversification into new markets and technologies.

Our strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances are intended to further expand our ability to
offer customers effective, high quality medical devices that satisfy their interventional needs. If
we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments and alliances, we may be unable to grow our
business. These acquisitions, investments and alliances have been a significant source of our
growth. The success of our strategy relating to future acquisitions, investments or alliances will
depend on a number of factors, including:

•our ability to identify suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance, if at all;•our ability to finance any future acquisition, investment or alliance on terms acceptable to us, if at all;•whether we are able to establish an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to
us, if at all; and•intellectual property and litigation related to these technologies.

Any potential future acquisitions we consummate may be dilutive to our earnings and may require
additional debt or equity financing, depending on size or nature.

We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and Plant Network Optimization
initiatives; our long-term expense reduction programs may result in an increase in short-term
expense; and our efforts may lead to additional unintended consequences.

In February 2010, we announced our 2010 Restructuring plan designed to strengthen and position us
for long-term success. Key activities under the plan include the integration of our Cardiovascular
and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate
functions; the centralization of our research and development organization; the realignment of our
international structure; and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio. In
connection with this plan and our strategy to reduce risk, increase operational leverage, realign
our business portfolio and accelerate profitable revenue growth, we recently closed the sale of our
Neurovascular business and may explore opportunities to divest additional select businesses or
assets in the future. However, our ability to complete further divestitures may be limited by the
inability to locate a buyer or to agree to terms that are favorable to us. Additionally, in January
2009, we announced our Plant Network





Optimization program, aimed at simplifying our plant network, reducing our manufacturing costs and
improving gross margins. Cost reduction initiatives under both plans include cost improvement
measures, including resource reallocations, head count reductions, the sale of certain non-strategic
assets and efforts to streamline our business, among other actions. These measures could yield
unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption,
attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity. We may be
unable to attract or retain key personnel. Attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a
material decrease in employee morale or productivity could negatively affect our business, sales,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, head count reductions may subject us to
the risk of litigation, which could result in substantial cost. Moreover, our expense reduction
programs result in charges and expenses that impact our operating results. We cannot guarantee that
these measures, or other expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the
expected cost savings.

The divestiture of our Neurovascular business could pose significant risks and may materially
adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

As part of our strategy to realign our business portfolio, in January 2011, we closed the sale of
our Neurovascular business to Stryker Corporation. The divestiture of this business may involve a
number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention and significant costs
and expenses, particularly unexpected costs and delays occurring during the period of separation.
In addition, we will provide post-closing services through a transition services agreement, and
will also supply products to Stryker. These transition services and supply agreements are expected
to be effective for a period of approximately 24 months following the closing of the transaction,
subject to extension, and could involve the expenditure of significant employee resources, among
other resources, and under which we will be reliant on third parties for the provision of services.
Our inability to effectively manage the post-separation activities and events could adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.

Healthcare policy changes, including recently passed healthcare reform legislation, may have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential
fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and
private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation,
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies,
technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do
business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis
on the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. Our strategic initiatives include measures to address this trend; however, there can be no assurance that any of our
strategic measures will successfully address this trend.





Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in
restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences for alternate therapies
could decrease the demand for our products, the prices which customers are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures performed using our devices, which could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
around the world that typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs
(e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the
healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate
reimbursement for their products and services from private and governmental third-party payors is
critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects
which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from
country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and services. After
we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement
approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or
administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the U.S., Japan, or other international
countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical
devices or denies coverage for those procedures, including price regulation, competitive pricing,
coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and
managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

Major third-party payors for hospital services in the U.S. and abroad continue to work to contain
healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of
healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased
discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services performed, has lead to
increased physician employment by hospitals in the U.S., and has shifted services between inpatient
and outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the increase of healthcare costs, including price
regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do business. Hospitals or physicians
may respond to these cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other
therapies for our products. In connection with Guidant’s product recalls, certain third-party
payors have sought, and others may seek, recourse against us for amounts previously reimbursed.

We are subject to extensive and dynamic medical device regulation, which may impede or hinder the
approval or sale of our products and, in some cases, may ultimately result in an inability to
obtain approval of certain products or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved
products.





•take a significant period of time;•require the expenditure of substantial resources;•involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance;•require changes to products; and•result in limitations on the indicated uses of products.

Countries around the world have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than in the past and
that have added or are expected to add to the delays and uncertainties associated with new product
releases, as well as the clinical and regulatory costs of supporting those releases. Even after
products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA
can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen
problems following initial approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required
clearances for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any
approval will not be subsequently withdrawn or conditioned upon extensive post-market study
requirements.

In addition, regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are
subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our
business. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. Later discovery of previously unknown
problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, operating
restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. We may also initiate field actions as a result of a
failure to strictly comply with our internal quality policies. The failure to receive product
approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of
products, physician advisories or other field actions, or the withdrawal of product approval by the
FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Our products, including those of our cardiovascular businesses, are continually subject to clinical
trials conducted by us, our competitors or other third parties, the results of which may be
unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition or results of operations.

As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products, we conduct
and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations
and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical
trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market’s perception of this
clinical data, may adversely impact our ability





to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and
our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects.

Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant
research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which are very expensive
and time-consuming and may not result in commercially viable products.

The medical device industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental
authorities and is the subject of numerous investigations, often involving marketing and other
business practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and criminal
proceedings; substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies; divert the attention of our
management; impose administrative costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity; and may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future.





In addition, certain state governments (including that of Massachusetts, where we are
headquartered) have enacted, and the federal government has proposed, legislation aimed at
increasing transparency of our interactions with healthcare professionals (HCPs). As a result, we
are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers for value to HCPs licensed by certain
states and expect similar requirements at the federal level in the future. Any failure to comply
with the enhanced legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. In addition, we
devoted substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement
enhanced structure, policies, systems and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory
requirements, which may also impact our business.

Further, recent Supreme Court case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices
preempts state tort laws, but legislation has been introduced at the Federal level to allow state
intervention, which could lead to increased and inconsistent regulation at the state level. We
anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that we will be
subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future.

Changes in tax laws, unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies, or exposure to additional income
tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.

We may not effectively be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The medical device market in which we primarily participate is largely technology driven. Physician
customers, particularly in interventional cardiology, have historically moved quickly to new
products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and
trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation. However,
intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable. Furthermore, appellate
courts can overturn lower court patent decisions.

In addition, competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across
product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties.
In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related
proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These forces frequently
drive settlement not only of individual cases, but also of a series of pending and potentially
related and unrelated cases. In addition, although monetary and injunctive relief is typically
sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the trial
court proceedings and can be modified on appeal. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are
difficult to time, predict or quantify and are often dependent upon the outcomes of other cases in
other geographies.





Several third parties have asserted that our current and former product offerings infringe patents
owned or licensed by them. We have similarly asserted that products sold by our competitors
infringe patents owned or licensed by us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of the proceedings
against us could limit our ability to sell certain products in certain jurisdictions, or reduce our
operating margin on the sale of these products and could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights that we own, or an unsuccessful outcome in
lawsuits to protect our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.

We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation and,
in recent years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively
challenge the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new devices. We
are currently the subject of various patent litigation proceedings and other proceedings described
in more detail under Item 3. Legal Proceedings andNote L- Commitments and Contingenciesto our
2010 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report.Intellectual
property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict.
Adverse outcomes in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to sell certain products and on our operating margins, financial condition, results of
operation or liquidity. Pending or future patent litigation may result in significant royalty or
other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of products and may significantly divert
the attention of our technical and management personnel. In the event that our right to market any
of our products is successfully challenged, we may be required to obtain a license on terms which
may not be favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to
design around a patent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.

Pending and future product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities
litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation, may adversely affect our
business, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers.

The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types that we produce entail an
inherent risk of product liability claims. Many of the medical devices that we manufacture and sell
are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. A number
of factors could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to
these or other products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing
flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related
information. These factors could result in product liability claims, a recall of one or more





of our products or a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Product liability claims
may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.

The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify.
Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts,
including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential losses
relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, the
cost to defend against any future litigation may be significant. Further, we are substantially
self-insured with respect to product liability and intellectual property infringement claims. We
maintain insurance policies providing limited coverage against securities claims. The absence of
significant third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims
and adverse decisions. Product liability claims, securities and commercial litigation and other
litigation in the future, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Any failure to meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality
processes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.

Our
products are designed and manufactured in technology centers around
the world, either by us or third parties. In most cases,
 the manufacturing of  our products  is concentrated in
one or a few locations. Factors such as a failure to follow specific internal protocols and
procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to one or more of our facilities
could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. In the event of an interruption in
manufacturing, we may be unable to quickly move to alternate means of producing affected products
or to meet customer demand. In some instances, for example, if the interruption is a result of a
failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience delays in resuming
production of affected products due primarily to  needs for regulatory approvals. As a result, we may suffer
loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We rely on external manufacturers to supply us with certain materials, components and products.
Any disruption in our sources of supply or the price of inventory supplied to us could adversely
impact our production efforts and could materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

We purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products, some of which
are custom made from third-party vendors. Certain supplies are purchased from single-sources due to
quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. In
the event of a disruption





in supply, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for certain
components, materials or products in a timely manner largely due to the complex nature of our and
many of our suppliers’ manufacturing processes. In addition, our products require sterilization
prior to sale and we rely on a mix of internal resources and third-party vendors to perform this
service. Production issues, including capacity constraint; the inability to sterilize our products;
quality issues affecting us or our suppliers; an inability to develop and validate alternative
sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of materials or components could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Our share price will fluctuate, and accordingly, the value of an investment in our common stock may
also fluctuate.

Stock markets in general, and our common stock in particular, have experienced significant price
and volume volatility over recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock
may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market
conditions, but also to variability in the prevailing sentiment regarding our operations or
business prospects, as well as, among other things, changing investment priorities of our
shareholders.



