10-K


c60319_10k.htm

2009 FORM 10–K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to
 Section 13 or 15(d) of

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2009

Commission File Number 001-12215

Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section
15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate
website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files). Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

As of June 30, 2009, the
aggregate market value of the approximately 154 million shares of voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
approximately $8.7 billion, based on the closing price on such date of the
registrant’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange.

As of January 31, 2010, there
were outstanding 178,917,322 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value per share.

Documents
Incorporated by Reference

Document

Part of Form 10-K into

which incorporated

Portions of the
 registrant’s Proxy Statement to be filed by April 30, 2010

Part
 III

Such Proxy Statement, except
for the portions thereof which have been specifically incorporated by
reference, shall not be deemed “filed” as part of this report on Form 10-K.


i

Item 1.

Business

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing,
information and services. We provide insights that enable patients, physicians
and others to make better healthcare decisions.

Quest
Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies
date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New
Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other
facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the
United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest
Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

During
2009, we generated net revenues of $7.5 billion and processed approximately 148
million test requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest
Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries, for each of the years
ended December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 is included in
the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.

O

UR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS

Our
mission is to be the undisputed world leader in diagnostic testing, information
and services. We are dedicated to improving the health of patients through
unsurpassed diagnostic insights and innovation and we focus on patients, growth
and people to help achieve our goals.

We
offer high value diagnostic testing services and products attractive to
patients, physicians, payers, and others and have become the provider of choice
in key areas of the diagnostic testing market. We believe that successful
execution of our strategy will drive continued growth of our business.
Additionally, we believe that, over the long term, we will be able to grow at a
rate above the U.S. clinical laboratory industry growth rate, to expand margins
and to increase international revenues to 10% of consolidated revenues. We plan
to do this by gaining more customers, selling more services and products to
existing customers and by continuously improving the efficiency of our
operations. The elements of our growth strategy are described below.



•

Expand our geographic reach.

In addition to
 growth opportunities in the United States, we see opportunities to expand our
 presence in Ireland, India, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the U.K. and to bring our
 experience and expertise in diagnostic testing to other international
 markets, particularly to developing countries where the testing markets are
 highly fragmented and less mature.

•

Expand our diagnostic scope.

Technology
 advances are enabling testing to move closer to the patient and
 point-of-care, or near patient, tests are becoming increasingly available and
 reliable. This enables more timely and effective decisions, with the
 opportunity to improve patient care and reduce medical costs. Since July
 2006, we have acquired three businesses that offer point-of-care testing:
 HemoCue, Focus Diagnostics and Enterix. We intend to expand our product
 menus, develop novel technology platforms and systems to meet the needs of
 our clients and pursue potential additional acquisitions to supplement our
 offering. Test results from our point-of-care products can be entered into
 our Care360 system, enabling the integration of tests performed in a near
 patient setting with those performed in our laboratories. We are well
 positioned to offer choice and integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals,
 clinics and retail customers for the testing methods that are most
 appropriate for each patient and practice.

In
support of our strategy, in recent years we have undertaken several
acquisitions to support our strategy. These acquisitions enable us to expand
our capabilities, further leverage our assets and differentiate our Company
from our competition, diversify our revenues and accelerate our growth. We
expect to continue to selectively evaluate acquisitions in the United States
and in select international markets.

B

USINESS OPERATIONS

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make decisions to improve health. We offer U.S. patients and physicians the broadest
access to diagnostic testing services through our nationwide network of
laboratories and Company-owned patient service centers. We provide interpretive
consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in the industry,
with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United
States, many of whom are recognized leaders in their field. We are the leading
provider of clinical testing, including gene-based and other esoteric testing,
anatomic pathology services, including dermatopathology and testing for
drugs-of-abuse, and the leading provider of risk assessment services for the
life insurance industry. We are also a leading provider of testing for clinical
trials. Our diagnostics products business manufactures and markets FDA cleared
or approved diagnostic test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We
empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with robust information
technology solutions. Our activities are described below.

Patients
are at the center of everything that we do. We are leveraging our diagnostic
testing capabilities and our assets to serve multiple customer bases. In 2009,
our clinical testing business accounted for greater than 90% of our net
revenues, with the balance derived from insurer services, clinical trials
testing, diagnostic products and healthcare information technology. Most of our
services are provided in the United States. Clinical testing includes routine
testing, anatomic pathology, gene-based and esoteric testing, and drugs-of-abuse
testing, which generated approximately 54%, 16%, 20% and 2%, respectively, of
our 2009 net revenues. Risk assessment services for the life insurance
industry, clinical trials testing, diagnostic products and healthcare
information technology combined generated approximately 8% of our 2009 net
revenues. In 2009, we derived approximately 3% of our net revenues from foreign
operations and held approximately 7% of our long-lived assets outside the
United States.

Clinical Testing.

We are the world’s
largest commercial clinical testing company. We offer customers the broadest
access to the most extensive test menu of clinical and anatomic pathology tests
in the United States. Clinical testing is an essential element in the delivery
of healthcare services. Physicians use clinical tests to assist in the
detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and
other medical conditions. Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical
laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services. Clinical laboratory testing
generally is performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids,
such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples. Anatomic pathology
services are performed on tissues, such as biopsies, and other samples, such as
human cells. Clinical laboratory tests which can be performed by most clinical
laboratories are considered routine. Esoteric tests are clinical laboratory
tests that are not routine, require highly skilled personnel and generally
require more sophisticated equipment. Esoteric tests, including gene-based
tests, generally are performed in several of our laboratories. As tests
increasingly become more complex, we believe that providing sound medical and
scientific consultation regarding our tests and test results will help spur the
integration of new tests into clinical practice, and help physicians best
utilize these tests to improve patient outcomes and enhance patient
satisfaction. To this end, our in-house experts, including medical directors, scientific
directors, genetic counselors and board certified geneticists are available for
consultation with our customers regarding testing that we perform.


Routine
clinical testing.

We are the leading provider of
routine clinical testing, including testing for drugs-of-abuse. We perform
routine testing through our network of major laboratories and rapid response
laboratories. Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can
quickly perform an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require
rapid turnaround times. We also perform routine testing at hospital
laboratories that we manage. We operate laboratories 24 hours a day, 365 days a
year, performing and reporting most routine tests within 24 hours. The majority
of test results are delivered electronically.

Routine
tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as the functions
of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests
include:

Cancer Diagnostics; Anatomic Pathology.

We
are the leading provider of cancer diagnostics, including anatomic pathology
services, in the United States. Anatomic pathology involves the diagnosis of
cancer and other diseases and medical conditions through examination of tissue
and cell samples taken from patients. We provide cancer diagnostics testing,
including inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services at
hospitals, throughout the country, including through our major laboratories. We
have a substantial presence in select geographic areas and strong relationships
with ordering physicians. We significantly strengthened our cancer diagnostics
offering through our May 2007 acquisition of AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc.

We
provide a full-range of cancer diagnostic services to all anatomic pathology
subspecialties. We have approximately 725 medical doctors, including
luminaries in their field, with a passion for providing the highest quality
service to patients. Among them are approximately 700 pathologists. We offer
    gene-based tests for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring
    of cancers. We provide integrated, comprehensive reports that include both
    anatomic pathology and clinical pathology tests, enabling our pathologists
    to offer patients and physicians a complete analysis. Our approach fosters
    personalized treatment.

We
have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics. We
introduced the Leumeta

TM

family of tests for leukemia and lymphoma.
These proprietary plasma-based molecular tests may some day eliminate the need
for painful bone marrow biopsies. As discussed beginning on page 5 under the
heading “Scientific Innovation”, recently we introduced the EGFR Pathway test
for metastatic colorectal cancer patients and collaborated closely with
Vermillion, Inc. on the development of its FDA-cleared OVA1

TM

ovarian cancer
test. We also offer the FDA-cleared HE4 biomarker test for monitoring women
with ovarian cancer. With HE4 and OVA1 in our portfolio, we are now the only
diagnostic testing company to offer FDA cleared tests for ovarian cancer in the
pre- and post-surgical settings. Pursuant to an agreement with the National
Cancer Screening Service of the Republic of Ireland, we also provide cervical
cancer screening testing for women age 25 to 60 participating in Ireland’s
first nationwide cytology-screening program.

Gene-Based and Other Esoteric Testing.

We
are the leading provider in the United States of gene-based and other esoteric
testing, with net revenues of over $1.4 billion, or 20% of consolidated net
revenues, in 2009. Gene-based and other esoteric tests increasingly are ordered
by physicians to assist them in the diagnostic process, to establish a
prognosis and to choose or monitor a therapeutic regimen. Esoteric tests
include procedures in the areas of molecular diagnostics, protein chemistry,
cellular immunology and advanced microbiology. Commonly ordered esoteric tests
include viral and bacterial detection tests, drug therapy monitoring tests,
autoimmune panels and complex cancer evaluations. Esoteric tests typically
require professional “hands-on” attention from highly-skilled technical
personnel, generally require more sophisticated technology, equipment or
materials and may be performed less frequently than routine tests.
Consequently, esoteric tests are generally reimbursed at higher levels than
routine tests. It is not practical, from a cost-effectiveness or infrastructure
perspective, for most hospitals, commercial laboratories or physician office
laboratories to develop and perform a broad menu of esoteric tests, or to
perform low-volume esoteric testing in-house. Such tests generally are
outsourced to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory, which specializes in
performing these complex tests. We conduct complex and specialized testing,
including molecular diagnostics, in our two world


renowned
Nichols Institute laboratory facilities (one on each U.S. coast), and in a
number of other locations, including Focus Diagnostics.

Our
esoteric laboratories provide reference testing services to physicians, large
academic medical centers, hospitals and other commercial laboratories. Our
esoteric testing laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not
routinely performed by our regional laboratories, including but not limited to
the following fields:

We
believe that offering a full range of gene-based and other esoteric tests
strengthens our market offering and market position and enhances our reputation
as the nation’s leading test provider.

Scientific Innovation.

We are a leading
innovator in the clinical testing industry, with capabilities ranging from
early discovery to validation of clinical tests. We develop tests at our
laboratories, such as Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute; we also develop
innovative techniques in anatomic pathology. We collaborate with leading
academic centers and maintain relationships with advisors and consultants that
are leaders in key fields, such as cardiology, oncology and infectious disease.
In connection with our research and development efforts, our medical and
scientific experts publish in peer-reviewed journals research that demonstrates
the clinical value and importance of diagnostic testing. In 2009, they
published several articles that provide fundamental insights into the nature of
cystic fibrosis and leukemia. We successfully transfer technical innovations to
the market through our relationships with technology developers, including the
academic community and pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, our in-house
expertise and our collaborations with emerging medical technology companies
that develop and commercialize novel diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device
technologies. We search for new opportunities and continue to build a robust
pipeline of new tests in screening, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choice,
which assists physicians in early detection of diseases and may reduce
healthcare costs. Through our strengths in assay development and the
commercialization of tests services, we believe that we are the partner of
choice for developers of new technologies and tests to introduce their products
to the marketplace.

We
focus our resources on key disease states and technologies that help doctors
care for their patients through better screening, monitoring, diagnosis,
prognosis and treatment choices. We also look for tests that are less invasive
than currently available options, to increase the choices that physicians and
patients have for the collection of diagnostic samples. With these priorities
in mind, we recently introduced a number of new tests which are discussed
below.



•

Oral and
 Dental Related Diseases

.

-

Recognizing the increased attention to the connection between
     oral and general health, in 2009 we acquired Oral DNA, a diagnostic laboratory
     company specializing in laboratory tests for oral and dental related diseases.
     This provided us an offering to test for periodontal disease and strengthened
     our leadership in cancer diagnostics, and enhanced our ability to offer
     physicians and patients increased alternatives for personalizing diagnostic
     testing.

Clinical
Trials Testing.

We believe that we are the second
largest provider of central laboratory testing performed in connection with
clinical research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain medical devices.
Clinical research trials are required by the FDA and other international regulatory
authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new drugs and vaccines. We see
opportunities to develop pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic tests to help
speed drug approval processes for our clinical trials customers and,
capitalizing on the trend to personalized medicine, to better focus patient
therapy based on a patient’s genetic markers. We have biomarker capabilities
that advance our efforts to develop these tests.

We
have clinical trials testing centers in the United States and the United
Kingdom, and we provide clinical trials testing in Australia, China, Singapore
and South America through affiliated laboratories. While we serve most of the
major pharmaceutical companies, approximately 35% of our net revenues from
clinical trials testing in 2009 represented testing for GlaxoSmithKline plc
(GSK). We are the primary provider of central laboratory testing to support
GSK’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.

Life Insurer Services.

We are the largest
provider of risk assessment services to the life insurance industry in the
United States and Canada. We also provide risk assessment services for
insurance companies doing business in many countries outside the United States.

Our
risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services to the life
insurance industry including teleunderwriting, specimen collection and
paramedical examinations, clinical testing, medical record retrieval, case
management, motor vehicle reports, telephone inspections, prescription
histories and credit checks. The clinical tests that we perform and data we
gather are designed to assist insurance companies to objectively evaluate the
mortality and morbidity risks of policy applicants. The majority of the testing
is performed on specimens of life insurance applicants, but also includes
specimens of applicants for other types of insurance. Factors such as the
number of applications for underwritten life insurance policies can affect the
utilization of clinical testing and other services we provide to our insurance
customers. Most of our specimen collections and paramedical examinations are
performed by our approximately 5,600 paramedical examiners at the applicant’s
home or workplace. We also offer paramedical examinations through approximately
500 of our patient service centers, and operate approximately 80 locations
other than patient service centers in the United States and Canada where we
provide paramedical examinations, bringing to approximately 580 the total
number of sites where we can provide these examinations. We also contract with
third parties at over an additional 125 locations across the United States and
Canada to coordinate providing these exams.

We
seek to grow our insurance revenues by increasing our market share and by
offering new and innovative clinical tests and other services. Our life
insurance customers have been consolidating, which has resulted in increased
individual customer purchasing power. We expect that this trend will continue.
We charge our life insurance customers on a fee-for-service basis, typically
under multi-year agreements.

Employer
Services.

We believe that we are the leading provider
of clinical testing to employers for the detection of employee use of
drugs-of-abuse. Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing Index

TM

, which is
an annual report of our aggregate drug testing results, is used by employers,
the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse
among the nation’s workforce.

As
healthcare costs have increased, so has the value of preventative care.
Employers grappling with increased healthcare costs use wellness testing as a
key tool to reduce their healthcare costs and the healthcare risks of their
employees. We provide wellness testing and analytic services to employers to
enable them and their employees to take an active role in improving their
health and empower employers with aggregated health information. Our Blueprint
for Wellness

TM

program offers employers actionable data to power
their health improvement and cost containment programs. We are leveraging our
patient service centers and paramedical network to deliver wellness screening
nationwide. We also offer Blueprint for Wellness

TM

directly to
individuals through our website, BlueprintForWellness.com.

Diagnostic Products, Including Point-of-care, or Near
Patient, Testing.

Technology advances are enabling testing to move
closer to the patient and are becoming increasingly available and reliable.
Over time, some testing that is now done in clinical laboratories will cease to
be performed in clinical laboratories and will be performed closer to the
patient. We believe that our point-of-care testing strategy will strengthen our
relationship with our customers by enabling us to offer more solutions that
improve the effectiveness of our customers and the care of their patients by


enabling
faster diagnosis and treatment. We are well positioned to offer options and
integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals and clinics for the testing
methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.

We
develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make
healthcare diagnoses, including products for point-of-care, or near patient,
testing for the professional market. Since July 2006, we have acquired several
companies, including Focus Diagnostics, Enterix, and HemoCue, that enhance our
offerings and better enable us to serve these markets. We will consider
additional acquisitions or licenses of selective products to complement the
products and services we provide. The results of several of our point-of-care
tests can be entered into our Care360

TM

system and hospital
laboratory information systems so that they are available in electronic medical
records. We intend to offer additional data links in the future. This will
differentiate our point-of-care test products from other products that are not
integrated into an electronic repository.

Focus
Diagnostics is a leading provider of infectious disease testing that has
established a reputation for being first to introduce new tests to the market,
including diagnostic tests for Lyme disease, West Nile Virus, SARS and, most
recently, H1N1. Focus Diagnostics develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic
products, such as HerpeSelect

®

ELISA tests that detect patient
antibodies to specific types of herpes simplex virus, which can be performed
on a variety of instrument platforms. Focus Diagnostics sells its diagnostic
products to large academic medical centers, hospitals and commercial
laboratories globally. In 2009, Focus entered into agreements with 3M
Corporation for global human diagnostic rights to a compact integrated cycler
for use with real time polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) assays. The
first product released on the integrated cycler is a second generation test for
H1N1 influenza virus which received Emergency Use Authorization for sale by the
FDA and CE mark for sale in Europe. This test is sold under the Simplexa

TM

brand
name. We intend to develop and pursue FDA clearance and CE marking for
additional tests to be sold under the Simplexa

TM

brand name.

HemoCue
manufactures and distributes point-of-care testing products. HemoCue is the
leading global provider in point-of-care testing for hemoglobin, with a growing
market share for glucose, microalbumin and white blood cell testing. In 2009,
HemoCue added the Avie

TM

hemoglobin A1c test, which has received FDA
510(k) clearance and a waived status under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”), to its diabetes test suite. The measurement of
hemoglobin is important for blood donors and for patients being considered for
transfusion therapy, or undergoing dialysis or chemotherapy, where instant test
results can lead to immediate treatment decisions. The HemoCue handheld systems
are used in physician’s offices, blood banks, hospitals, diabetes clinics and
public health clinics. In developing countries, these systems are used as the
primary means to screen for anemia. Approximately one-half of HemoCue products
are sold outside the United States. We believe that HemoCue has a strong
product development pipeline, based on its pioneering use of its patented
microfluidic systems. HemoCue received FDA 510(k) clearance for its White Blood
Cell Analyzer, a whole-blood test performed on finger-stick samples that can
assist physicians by providing a total white blood cell count. We are applying
for CLIA-waived status for this product which, if granted, would permit
physicians to use these products in a much larger segment of physician offices.

Enterix,
an Australia-based company, manufactures the InSure® fecal immunochemical test
(FIT

TM

) for screening for colorectal cancer.

International.

We have laboratory
facilities in Gurgaon, India; Heston, England; Mexico City, Mexico; and San
Juan, Puerto Rico. These laboratories support clinical testing in their local
markets and our clinical trials business. We have an office in Ireland that
supports our activities in that country, and also have sales representatives
dedicated to offering our point-of-care test products in countries outside the
United States. We see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in
diagnostic testing and point-of-care products to international markets,
particularly developing countries where the testing markets are highly
fragmented and less mature, including by leveraging existing facilities to
serve new markets.

Healthcare Information Technology.

We
empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with information technology
solutions that can help improve patient care and medical practice, including
through our Care360™ suite of products and the ChartMaxx® electronic document
management system for hospitals. We provide interoperable technologies that
help health information exchanges and physicians enter, share and access
clinical information without costly IT implementation or significant workflow
disruption. These solutions offer access to a large national healthcare
provider network, including hundreds of electronic health record (EHR)
applications and approximately 160,000 networked physicians using Quest
Diagnostics’ Care360 connectivity products. We believe that these products
enhance the value we provide to our customers and result in increased customer
loyalty by providing more convenient ordering and reporting of clinical tests,
greater convenience in electronically prescribing medication and providing
better access to clinical information.

The
Care360 products, including our Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians
electronically to order diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest
Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medication. Since


December 2008,
the number of medications written through Care360 ePrescribing has nearly
tripled to an annualized rate of more than 12 million. Our Care360 EHR product
allows physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient
encounter, automates and streamlines the clinician’s workflow, and allows for
rapid deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. The
solution allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute patient
encounter notes including vital signs and progress notes. It captures lab and
radiology results and allows doctors to send secure messages and clinical
information to other practitioners and secure, Web-based laboratory results to
their patients’ personal health records. Physicians also take advantage of our
new Care360 Mobile application that lets them review results and order
medications using their Apple® iPhone®.

In
2009, we launched an upgraded version of our industry leading ChartMaxx
document managing and imaging solution, which enhances the ability of
healthcare enterprises to track, respond to and report on, requests from
Recovery Audit Contractor auditors. Our Centergy® Clinical Portal is the hospital-facing
component of our suite of modular healthcare solutions, which also includes
full scale Data Exchange Services. It is the choice of one third of the
original Nationwide Health Information Network contractors and some of the
largest health information exchanges, deployed in California, New York, British
Columbia, District of Columbia and New Mexico.

The
2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included laws designed to expedite
the implementation of electronic health records and build a national electronic
health infrastructure in the United States. We have been pioneering
advancements in healthcare information technology for many years, believe that
we are well positioned to enable physicians to take advantage of the government
stimulus program and are committed to our Care360 products becoming designated
as certified technology for purposes of the federal laws.

We
collaborate with Keas, Microsoft and Google in connection with their personal
health records offerings. Keas™ provides an online tool that delivers
personalized health plans to individuals, based upon the individual’s health
information. Microsoft® HealthVault™ and Google Health™ are tools that allow
patients to store, manage, and share their medical records online in a HIPAA
compliant fashion. Using our Care360 connectivity products, physicians can
securely provide diagnostic and other data to a patient’s account.

We believe that our healthcare information technology capabilities,
    and our collaboration with others regarding healthcare information technology
    initiatives, differentiate us from the competition.

T

HE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING MARKET

Most
clinical tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
hospital-affiliated laboratories; commercial clinical laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories
account for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories
approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Key Trends.

There are a number of key
trends that we expect to have a significant impact on the clinical testing
business in the United States and on our business. These trends present both
opportunities and risks. The current economic slowdown may temporarily reduce
industry growth rates. However, because clinical testing is an essential
healthcare service and because of the key trends discussed below, we believe
that the industry will continue to grow over the long term and that we are well
positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry.

Demographics.

The growing and aging
population is increasing the demand for clinical testing.

Increased
testing.

We believe that we have entered the decade of
diagnostics, moving from dominant focus on curative care to a greater
recognition of the value of detection, prevention and personalized care.
Physicians increasingly are relying on diagnostic testing to help identify risk
for a disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice
of therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment
results. Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of
diagnostic testing as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of
healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment.

Science and technology advances.

Medical
advances allow for more accurate and earlier diagnosis and treatment of
diseases. Continuing research and development in the area of genomics is
expected to yield new, more sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests.
These advances also are spurring interest in and demand for personalized or
tailored medicine, which relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing. In
addition, pharmacogenetic testing increasingly is used as a parameter to help
speed drug approval processes and to better focus therapy based on patient and
tumor-specific genetic markers.

Health information technologies.

Demand is
growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that serve patients,
payers and practitioners by improving access to patient data, increasing
patient participation in care management, reducing medical errors and improving
clinical outcomes. There is an increasing focus on interconnectivity, the
ability to interact with other software and systems, and real time data
aggregation. Electronic medical records and patient health records continue to
grow.


Customer
and payer consolidation.

Our customers and payers,
including physicians, health insurance plans, employers, pharmaceutical
companies and others, have been consolidating. We expect that this trend will
continue. Consolidation is increasing customer and payer bargaining power,
enhancing purchasing sophistication and encouraging internalization of testing.

Highly competitive.

The clinical testing
industry remains fragmented, is highly competitive and is subject to new
competition. Competition is growing from non-traditional competitors. New
market entrants with extensive resources may make acquisitions or expand into
our traditional areas of operations. We also are expanding into new diagnostic
testing areas that are highly competitive.

Legislative, regulatory and policy environment.

Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United
States is significant and increasing. The 2009 American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act included laws designed to expedite the implementation of
electronic health records and build a national electronic health infrastructure
in the United States. In addition, there has been extensive discussion of U.S.
federal legislation to reform healthcare. It is not possible to predict whether
U.S. federal legislation to reform healthcare will be enacted, or the nature or
impact of any such legislation.

Prevention
and wellness

. There is an increased awareness of the
benefits of, and increased interest in, preventative medicine and wellness.
Consumers, employers, health plans and government agencies increasingly are
focusing on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among those at
risk and providing preventative care that helps avoid disease.

Globalization.

There is a growing demand
for healthcare services in emerging market countries. Opportunities are arising
to participate in the restructuring or growth of the healthcare systems in
these countries. Additionally, our customers are establishing positions outside
the United States. Demographic changes globally may also create opportunities.

Customers and Payers.

We provide testing
services to a broad range of customers, with orders for clinical testing
generally generated by physicians, hospitals and employers. In most cases, the
customer that orders the testing is not responsible for the payments for
services. We consider a party that refers a test to us a “customer” and a party
that reimburses us a “payer.” Depending on the billing arrangement and
applicable law, the payer may be (1) a third party responsible for providing
health insurance coverage to patients, such as a health insurance plan,
self-insured employer benefit fund, or the traditional Medicare or Medicaid
program, (2) the patient or (3) the physician or other party (such as a
hospital, another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to us.

The
following table shows current estimates of the breakdown of the percentage of
our total volume of requisitions and net revenues associated with our clinical
testing business during 2009 applicable to each payer group:

Health
plans, including managed care organizations and other health insurance
providers, typically reimburse us as a contracted provider on behalf of their
members for clinical testing services performed. Reimbursement from our two
largest health plans totaled approximately 14% of our consolidated net
revenues in 2009. Our largest health plan accounted for approximately
9% of our consolidated net revenues in 2009.

Physicians.

Physicians, including both
primary care physicians and specialists, requiring testing for patients are the
primary referral source of our clinical testing volume. Physicians determine
which laboratory to recommend or use, based on a variety of factors, including:
service; patient access and convenience, including participation in a health
plan network; price; and depth and breadth of test and service offering.
Physicians also purchase and utilize our point-of-care tests.


Health
Plans.

Health plans typically negotiate directly or
indirectly with a number of clinical laboratories, and represent approximately
one-half of our total clinical testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues
from clinical testing. The trend of consolidation among health plans has
continued. In certain markets, such as California, health plans may delegate to
independent physician associations (“IPAs”) the ability to negotiate for
clinical testing services on behalf of certain members.

Health
plans and IPAs often require that clinical test service providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services through capitated payment
arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated
payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number
or cost of services provided by us. Average reimbursement rates under capitated
payment arrangements are typically lower than our overall average reimbursement
rate. Health plans continue to focus product offerings on point-of-service
(“POS”) plans, and consumer driven health plans (“CDHPs”) that offer a greater
choice of healthcare providers. Reimbursement under these programs is typically
negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in higher
revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. In addition,
several health plans have made strategic acquisitions or have developed
products to more broadly serve the individual (non-group) market. We do not
expect that the design of these plans will pose a significant barrier to
accessing clinical testing services. Increased number of patients in CDHPs and
high deductible plans, such as those offered in the individual market,
generally require greater levels of patient cost-sharing; this could negatively
impact patient collection experience.

Most
of our agreements with major health plans are non-exclusive arrangements.
Certain health plans, however, have limited their laboratory network to only a
single national laboratory to obtain improved pricing. In cases where members
choose to use a non-contracted provider due to service, quality or convenience,
the non-contracted provider is generally reimbursed at rates considered
“reasonable and customary.” Contracted rates are generally lower than
“reasonable and customary” rates.

We
also may be a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary network is
generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain
with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of its
customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the
volume of testing services by offering health plans services and programs that
leverage our Company’s expertise and resources, including in such areas as
wellness and disease management.

Hospitals.

Hospitals generally maintain an
on-site laboratory to perform the significant majority of clinical testing for
their patients and refer less frequently needed and highly specialized
procedures to outside laboratories, which typically charge the hospitals on a
negotiated fee-for-service basis. Fee schedules for hospital reference testing
typically are negotiated on behalf of hospitals by group purchasing
organizations. We provide services to hospitals throughout the United States,
including esoteric testing, in some cases helping manage their laboratories and
serving as the medical directors of the hospital’s histology or clinical
laboratory. We believe that we are the industry’s market leader in servicing
hospitals. Hospitals generally continue to look for ways to fully utilize their
existing laboratory capacity: they perform tests their patients need and
compete with commercial laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients)
testing. Continuing to obtain referrals from hospitals depends on our ability
to provide high quality services that are more cost-effective than if the
hospitals were to perform the services themselves. We believe that our combination
of full-service, bi-coastal esoteric testing capabilities, medical and
scientific professionals available for consultation, innovative connectivity
products, point-of-care testing products, focus on Six Sigma quality and
dedicated sales and service professionals has positioned us to be an attractive
partner for hospital customers.

Most
physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as
part of their medical practice. Many hospitals seek to leverage their
relationships with community physicians by encouraging the physicians to send
their outreach testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals
that own physician practices generally require the practices to refer tests to
the hospital’s affiliated laboratory. Hospitals can have greater leverage with
health insurers than do commercial clinical laboratories, particularly
hospitals that have a significant market share; hospitals thus are frequently
able to negotiate higher reimbursement rates with health insurance plans than
commercial clinical laboratories for comparable clinical testing services.

We
also have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated healthcare
delivery networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture arrangements,
which provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for unaffiliated
physicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our principal
laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have either a
majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management responsibilities for,
our hospital joint venture relationships.


Employers.

Employers use clinical tests for drugs-of-abuse to determine an individual’s
employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high turnover,
safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements provide the
highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and job market
can impact the utilization of drugs-of-abuse testing. We seek to grow our
employer volumes through offering new and innovative programs to help companies
with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. We also offer
employers our Blueprint for Wellness program, providing wellness screening and
analytic services to employers, to help employers and their employees manage
increasing healthcare costs and to capitalize on trends in personalized health.

Other Laboratories and Other Customers

. We
also provide testing services to federal, state and local governmental agencies
and perform esoteric testing services for commercial clinical laboratories that
do not have a full range of testing capabilities. These customers are charged
on a fee-for-service basis.

G

ENERAL

Competition.

While there has been significant consolidation in the clinical testing industry
in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We
primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. Our largest commercial clinical laboratory
competitor is Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we
compete with many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories,
specialized esoteric laboratories and laboratories owned by physicians and
hospitals. In anatomic pathology, additional competitors include anatomic
pathology practices, including those in academic institutions. In addition,
there has been a trend among specialty physician practices to bring
pathologists into those practices, thereby reducing referrals from those
practices.

We
believe that we are an effective competitor in each of these areas. We also
believe that offering the most comprehensive test menu in the industry,
innovative test and information technology offerings, a superior patient
experience, Six Sigma quality and unparalleled access and distribution,
provides us with a competitive advantage that enables us to compete on more
than price alone.

We
believe that large commercial clinical laboratories may be able to increase
their share of the overall clinical testing market due to their large service
networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger
clinical laboratories to more effectively serve large customers and members of
large healthcare plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the clinical
testing industry will continue. However, a significant portion of clinical
testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which generally
have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us. As a
result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated
laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well
as other non-pricing factors. Our failure to provide service superior to
hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material
adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. In addition, recent
market activity, including actions by payers to exclude large national clinical
laboratories from contracts, may enhance the relative competitive position of
regional laboratories.

The
diagnostic testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more
cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical
laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians
in their offices; (2) complex tests that can be performed by hospitals in their
own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without


requiring the
services of clinical laboratories. Development of such technology and its use
by our customers and patients would reduce the demand for our laboratory
testing services and negatively impact our net revenues. With our point-of-care
test strategy, we are positioning ourselves to service this growing market for
physicians and hospitals. We also believe that our overall point-of-care test
strategy will strengthen our relationship with our customers by enabling us to
offer more solutions that improve their effectiveness and the care of their
patients by enabling faster diagnosis and treatment.

The
diagnostic product, life insurance services, clinical trials and healthcare
information technology markets are highly competitive. We have many competitors,
some of which have much more extensive experience in these markets and some of
which have greater resources. We compete in the diagnostic products market by
attempting to find and exploit unique differentiated products, including
products that take advantage of our healthcare information technology
solutions. We compete in the life insurance services business by seeking to
provide a superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider
array of highest quality, integrated services than our competitors. We compete
in the clinical trials business by leveraging our strengths as the world’s
leading diagnostic testing company, including the depth and breadth of our
testing menu, our superior scientific expertise, our ability to support complex
global clinical trials and our lab management and information technology
solutions. We compete in the healthcare information technology market by
offering solutions that foster better patient care and improve performance for
healthcare institutions, patients and physician practices, particularly smaller
and medium sized physician practices. There is no guarantee that we will be
able to compete successfully in these markets.

Sales
and Marketing.

Our sales force is organized to focus
on customer groups and service types. The majority of representatives focus on
marketing clinical laboratory testing, anatomic pathology and related services
to physicians, including physician specialists. Supporting our physician sales
teams are genomics and esoteric testing specialists, who are specially trained
and focused on educating our clients on new and more complex tests. In
addition, we have a sales force that focuses on regional and national insurance
organizations. We also have a hospital sales organization that focuses on
meeting the unique clinical testing needs of hospitals. A smaller portion of
our sales force focuses on selling drugs-of-abuse and wellness testing to
employers. We also have a sales force that focuses on selling risk assessment testing
services to life insurance companies. In addition, we have a sales organization
that focuses on selling diagnostic products to hospitals, commercial clinical
laboratories, physician office laboratories, blood banks and clinics, and a
sales force that sells our point-of-care tests to customers globally. We also
have a sales force that focuses on selling our clinical trials services to drug
developers. We have an active customer management process to evaluate the
growth potential and profitability of all accounts.

Information
Technology.

We use information systems extensively in
virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical laboratory testing,
test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical
data. We believe that our healthcare information technology systems help
differentiate us favorably. We endeavor to establish systems that create value
and efficiencies for our Company, patients and customers. The successful
delivery of our services depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted
performance of our information technology systems.

Some
of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and we continue to use
non-standardized billing, laboratory or other core information systems. We have
standardized some of our systems and are implementing standard laboratory
information and billing systems across our operations, including those from our
most recent acquisitions. We expect implementation will take several more years
to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems,
improved operating efficiency, more timely and comprehensive information for
management and enhanced control over our operational environment.

Quality
Assurance.

In our clinical testing business, our goal
is to continually improve the processes for collection, handling, storage and
transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy of
analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus on positive
patient identification of specimens, report accuracy, proficiency testing,
reference range relevance, process audits, statistical process control and
personnel training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We
also focus on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our
professional and technical staff. We are implementing an enhanced specimen
tracking system, with global positioning system capabilities, that will enable
us to better track specimens. We continue to implement our Six Sigma and
standardization initiatives to help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as
the undisputed quality leader in the healthcare services industry. In addition,
some of our laboratories have achieved International Organization for
Standardization, or ISO, certification. These certifications are international
standards for quality management systems. In 2009, we took a number of steps to
further enhance our quality assurance program, including devoting additional
resources to the program and taking advantage of technology advances designed
to improve quality assurance.

As
part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal
proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for
our clinical laboratory operations. For most clinical laboratory tests, quality
control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient
specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored
to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes.


We
participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation for our
clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or accrediting
organizations, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”),
the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) and certain states. All of our
laboratories participate in various external quality surveillance programs.
They include, but are not limited to, proficiency testing programs administered
by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an independent, non-governmental
organization of board-certified pathologists approved by CMS to inspect
clinical laboratories to determine compliance with the standards required by
CLIA. CAP offers an accreditation program to which laboratories may voluntarily
subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric laboratories, including our
facility in India, and most of our rapid response laboratories, are accredited
by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections and participation in the CAP
(or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also, all of our cytotechnologists
and pathologists participate in an individual proficiency testing program.

Our
diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs
focused on compliance with applicable regulatory requirements in the United
States, Europe and Australia. They are regulated by the FDA and are required to
be in compliance with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and
with applicable standards outside the U.S. In addition, our manufacturing sites
are certified in accordance with, or audited by the deemed authority for, ISO
13485: 2003 standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics
products in compliance with Quality Systems Regulations so that the finished
products are safe and effective. In addition, the diagnostics products
businesses maintain procedures designed to ensure that products we purchase
conform to the manufacturer’s specifications.

Intellectual
Property Rights.

We own significant intellectual
property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries.
From time to time, we also license U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent
applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks
owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and
licenses are of material importance to our business. We believe, however, that no
single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is
material to our business as a whole.

Our
approach is to manage our intellectual property assets to safeguard them and to
maximize their value to our enterprise. We generally actively defend our
intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes
and other intellectual property where possible.

Our
success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by
continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in
part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable
terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain
patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be
performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other
specialty testing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to
develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business.

Employees.

At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 43,000 people. This total
excludes employees of the joint ventures where we do not have a majority
interest. We have no collective bargaining agreements with any unions covering
any employees in the United States, and we believe that our overall relations
with our employees are good.

B

ILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT

Billing.

We generally bill for clinical testing services on a fee-for-service basis
under one of two types of fee schedules. These fees are generally subject to
negotiation with or discounted to non-governmental payers. The types of fee
schedules are:

•

“Client”
 fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions for which a clinical
 laboratory performs testing services on a wholesale basis and which are
 billed on a monthly basis.

•

“Patient”
 fees charged to individual patients and third-party payers, like Medicare and
 Medicaid.

Billing
for clinical testing services is very complicated, and we have compliance
policies and procedures that increase our billing costs. Patients, insurance
companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups all
have different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to
bill multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate
billing (e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various
payers; incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering
physicians). We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in
Medicare and Medicaid programs because clinical laboratory testing and anatomic
pathology services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous
federal and state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage,
billing and reimbursement. Changes in laws and regulations could further
complicate our billing and increase our billing expense. CMS establishes
procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the
reimbursement process.


As
an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported
failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting from
non-compliance are reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have
periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for
overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action.

In
2009, our bad debt expense was 4.3% of our net revenues. We believe that most
of our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing
information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices (ABNs) received
from healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the portion of the
receivable that is their responsibility, rather than credit related issues.
Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact our bad debt expense. In
general, we perform the requested tests and report test results regardless of
whether the billing information is correct or complete. We subsequently attempt
to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain any missing information
and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect information
on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing process, creates
backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts
receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering
reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information.

Government
Coverage and Reimbursements.

Government payers, such
as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and can be expected to continue to
take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare
services, including clinical test services. For example, Medicare carriers have
adopted policies under which they do not pay for many commonly ordered clinical
tests unless the ordering physician has provided an appropriate diagnosis code
supporting the medical necessity of the test. Physicians are required by law to
provide diagnostic information when they order clinical tests for Medicare and
Medicaid patients.

The
healthcare industry has experienced significant changes in reimbursement
practices during the past several years. Historically, many different local
carriers administered Medicare Part B, which covers services provided by
commercial clinical laboratories. They often had inconsistent policies,
increasing the complexity of the billing process for clinical laboratories.
They are being replaced with contractors who will administer Part B benefits
for beneficiaries in larger regional areas. It is expected that the revised
system will reduce the administrative complexity of billing for services
provided to Medicare beneficiaries.

With
regard to the clinical test services performed on behalf of Medicare
beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the
carrier’s fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In
addition, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most
instances, pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not
require the beneficiary to pay a co-payment for clinical laboratory testing.
Certain Medicaid programs require Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts
for clinical laboratory testing. Medicare patients generally are required to
make co-payments for anatomic pathology services.

Federal
law contains a Medicare fee schedule payment methodology for clinical testing
services performed for patients covered under Part B of the Medicare program,
and a national ceiling on the amount that carriers could pay under their local
Medicare fee schedules. During 2009, Medicare and Medicaid programs represented
approximately 18% of our net revenues. Effective January 1, 2010, the national
fee schedule for clinical testing services was decreased 1.9%.

Federal
    law also contains a Medicare fee schedule payment methodology for pathology
    and other physician services performed for patients covered under Part B
    of the Medicare program.  In December 2009, Congress
    enacted a 60-day hold on a potential 21.2% decrease in this schedule
    that would otherwise have gone into effect January 1, 2010. In 2009, approximately
    3% of our net revenues were reimbursed based on this fee schedule.

CMS
is permitted to adjust statutorily prescribed fees for clinical test services
if the standard rules by which those payments are calculated will result in
fees that are “grossly excessive.” CMS rules set forth a process and factors
for establishing a “realistic and equitable” payment amount for clinical test
services under Medicare Part B (and services paid under a prospective payment
system) if existing payment amounts are determined to be inherently
unreasonable; payment amounts may be considered unreasonable if they are either
grossly excessive or deficient. Under CMS rules, if CMS or a carrier determines
that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is needed to produce a
realistic and equitable payment amount, then the payment amount is not
considered “grossly excessive or deficient.” However, if a determination is
made that a payment adjustment of 15% or more is justified, CMS could provide
an adjustment of less than 15%, but not more than 15%, in any given year. Fees
payable by Medicare could be reduced prospectively as a result of the
application of these rules.

We
are generally permitted to bill Medicare beneficiaries directly for statutorily
excluded testing services. An advance beneficiary notice (“ABN”) is a notice
signed by the beneficiary which documents the patient’s informed decision to
personally assume financial liability for tests which are likely to be denied
and not reimbursed by Medicare because they are deemed to be not medically
necessary for the patient (these tests include limited coverage tests for which
the ordering physician did not provide an appropriate diagnosis code and
certain tests ordered on a patient at a


frequency
greater than covered by Medicare). We do not have any direct contact with most
of these patients and, in such cases, cannot control the proper use of the ABN
by the physician or the physician’s office staff, who must obtain the ABN on
our behalf. If the ABN is not timely provided to the beneficiary or is not
completed properly, we may end up performing tests that we cannot subsequently
bill to the patient if payment is denied by Medicare due to coverage
limitations.

Penalties
for violations of laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs and for
violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion
from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3)
civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil
monetary penalties for a wide range of violations may be assessed on a per
violation basis. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act
provides for damages on a per violation basis, plus damages of up to three
times the amount claimed.

Historically,
most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional
Medicare and Medicaid programs directly administered by the federal government.
Over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its
contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and
has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to
the private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs. There has been
continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs
and of beneficiary enrollment in these plans. In recent years, in an effort to
control costs, states also have increasingly mandated that Medicaid
beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. If these efforts
continue to be successful, we may experience a further shift of traditional
Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries to private health insurance options.

R

EGULATION

Our
businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels) and
the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws and
regulations include regulations over aspects of our business, and laws and
regulations relating to conducting our business generally (e.g., export
controls laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other jurisdictions),
including in the United States and in the other jurisdictions in which we
conduct business. We also are subject to inspections and audits by governmental
agencies. Set forth below are highlights of the key regulatory areas applicable
to our businesses.

CLIA
and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing Regulations.

All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient service centers are
licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate federal and state
agencies. CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that
they be certified by the federal government and comply with various
operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that the
services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. The cost of compliance
with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical
laboratories in their offices. However, manufacturers of laboratory equipment
and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care
test equipment to physicians and by selling to both physicians and patients
test kits approved by the FDA for home use. Diagnostic tests approved or
cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests
under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal
regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes.

CLIA
does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State
laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record
maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed
review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for tests before
approval for use or marketing of services.

Fraud
and Abuse Rules.

Federal anti-kickback laws and
regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other benefits to influence
the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal or
state healthcare programs. The penalties for violation of these laws and
regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil penalties and/or
suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other
federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar laws.

In
addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare
and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a
personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing
laboratory. Some states also have laws that are not limited to Medicare and
Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment and compensation
arrangements with physicians.

FDA.

The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments,
test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform
diagnostic testing in the United States. The FDA also regulates clinical trials
(and, therefore, testing that we perform for sponsors of those trials),
drugs-of-abuse testing for employers, testing for blood bank purposes and
testing of donors of human cells for purposes such as

in vitro

fertilization. A number of


esoteric tests
we develop internally are first offered as laboratory-developed tests (“LDTs”).
The FDA has claimed regulatory authority over
all LDTs, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most LDTs
performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. However, the FDA has
been petitioned to exercise regulatory authority over certain LDTs and to
initiate enforcement action against companies that make effectiveness claims
about LDTs that are without sufficient analytical and clinical support. In
addition, the FDA has issued two drafts of a guidance document describing
certain LDTs it refers to as “In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays.”
The FDA could finalize this guidance document, clarifying its intention to
regulate these tests as medical devices and the laboratories that offer this
subset of LDTs. If FDA regulation of this subset of LDTs occurs or if increased
regulation of the various medical devices used in laboratory-developed testing
ensues, it would lead to an increased regulatory burden resulting in additional
costs and delays in introducing new tests, including genetic tests; this may
hinder us from developing and marketing certain new products or services.

In
September 2007, the FDA finalized its guidance relating to analyte specific
reagents (“ASRs”), which laboratories use in LDTs. As a result, manufacturers
of certain products previously marketed as ASRs must file for FDA clearance of
these products in order to market them in the United States. Failure to act
diligently and to cooperate with the FDA may result in enforcement action
against the manufacturer. The increased regulation of these products could result
in increased product cost, a delay in obtaining them or, if a manufacturer
withdraws its products from the market, an inability to obtain the product.
These factors may hinder our ability to develop and market new products or
services or cause an increase in the cost of our products or services.

Our
diagnostic product business is subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as by
foreign governmental agencies, including countries within the European Union
who have adopted the Directive on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (“IVDD”).
These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development,
testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and
post-market surveillance of diagnostic products. Prior to commercially marketing
or selling most diagnostic products in the U. S. we are required to secure
clearance or approval from the FDA. Similarly, we may need to obtain a license
or certification such as a CE mark in order to sell diagnostic products outside
of the U. S. Compliance with the IVDD allows us to market in Europe once we
obtain a CE mark (obtainable where the manufacturer certifies that the device
conforms to the regulatory and quality requirements for the device). Following
the introduction of a diagnostic product into the market, the FDA and non-U.S.
agencies engage in periodic inspections and reviews of the manufacturing
processes and product performance. Compliance with these regulatory controls
can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and
continued availability of new products. These agencies possess the authority to
take various administrative and legal actions against us for non-compliance,
such as fines, product suspensions, submission of warning letters, recalls,
product seizures, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions. Where
appropriate, voluntary compliance actions, such as voluntary recalls, may be
undertaken.

Environmental,
Health and Safety.

We are subject to laws and
regulations related to the protection of the environment, the health and safety
of employees and the handling, transportation and disposal of medical
specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. For
example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has
established extensive requirements relating specifically to workplace safety
for healthcare employers in the U. S. This includes requirements to develop and
implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers from exposure to blood-borne
pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C, including preventing or
minimizing any exposure through sharps or needle stick injuries. For purposes
of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory supplies are
classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation by one or more
of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S.
Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service and the International
Air Transport Association. We generally use third-party vendors to dispose of
regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive materials and
contractually require them to comply with applicable laws and regulations.

Contracts
and Relationships with Physicians.

We employ pathologists. Many of our pathologists
enter into an employment agreement. These agreements have varying terms, but
generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance notice. Most of the
agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities of the
pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period of time after
termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to limitations under
state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.

Our
pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the
jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they
must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with
privileges in pathology.

Many
states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business
corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states,
business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary
from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized
to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state in which


medical
services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities authorized by
these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In some states, anatomic
pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that employ
the practicing pathologists.

Some
states restrict the splitting or sharing of fees between physicians and
non-physicians. These laws may apply to some of the arrangements that we have
with pathologists; the laws vary from state to state.

Privacy
and Security of Health and Personal Information.

Healthcare providers and others involved in providing healthcare services to
patients are required to comply with the federal Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) regulations regarding protecting the
security and privacy of certain healthcare information, as well as HIPAA standards
for electronic healthcare transactions in the United States. The HIPAA regulations
on adoption of national provider identifiers required healthcare providers to
adopt new, unique identifiers for reporting on claims transactions. The
security regulations establish requirements for safeguarding electronic patient
information. The privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal standards
regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information. New federal
laws adopted in 2009 impose additional obligations on healthcare providers
regarding the privacy and security of protected health information, increase
the penalties associated with the failure to meet the HIPAA regulatory
requirements, allow state attorneys general to enforce violations of the HIPAA
privacy and security regulations and require healthcare providers to notify
patients and the government if they discover certain breaches of the patient’s
unsecured protected health information. These laws and regulations establish
a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects. We have implemented
practices that we believe meet the requirements.

We
also must comply with privacy and security laws and regulations adopted by
states in the United States and jurisdictions outside the United States in
which we conduct business, including the European Union. Some of these laws and
regulations relate to the privacy and security of personal information, such
    as social security numbers. Some of the laws and regulations impose reporting
    and disclosure requirements in the event of certain security breaches. We
have implemented practices that we believe meet applicable requirements.

Drug
Testing; Controlled Substances.

All U.S. laboratories
that perform drug testing for public sector employees and employees of certain
federally regulated businesses are required to be certified as meeting the
detailed performance and quality standards of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration. To obtain access to controlled substances used to
perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States, laboratories must be
licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. All of our laboratories that
perform such testing or that use controlled substances are so certified or so
licensed, respectively.

Compliance.

We seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to us, however, including
many of those relating to billing, reimbursement of tests and relationships
with physicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite or have not been
interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a
prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require
us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing
practices. The applicability or interpretation of laws and regulations also may
not be clear in light of emerging changes in clinical testing science and
healthcare technology. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could,
among other things:

If
we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Certain federal and state statues, regulations and other
laws, including the

qui tam

provisions of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring
lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private
payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on theories as to our
current practices that we believe are lawful. The federal government has
substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential
damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government
has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, which represented approximately 18%


of our net
revenues during 2009. We believe that, based on our experience with settlements
and public announcements by various government officials, the federal
government continues to strengthen its enforcement efforts against healthcare
fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and
abuse provide federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding,
powers and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.

We
have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality,
Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our
compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our
compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and
training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance
of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct
in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance
throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these
compliance policies and procedures.

A

VAILABLE INFORMATION

We
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may
read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public
reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including
Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings
are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.questdiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics’
Investor Relations webpage at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.
We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage,
our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed
with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor
Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities
filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

We
have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our
corporate governance at www.questdiagnostics.com/governance. We post the
following on our corporate governance webpage:


E

XECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
COMPANY

The following
persons serve as executive officers of the Company.

Surya
N. Mohapatra, Ph.D.

(60) is Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining the Company in February
1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, he was Senior Vice
President of Picker International, a worldwide leader in advanced medical
imaging technologies. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and Chief Operating
Officer in June 1999, Chief Executive Officer in May 2004 and Chairman of the
Board in December 2004. He is a director of ITT Corporation. Dr. Mohapatra has
been a director of the Company since 2002.

Jon
R. Cohen, M.D.

(55) is Senior Vice President and
Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Cohen joined the company in March 2009. He served as
the Senior Advisor to New York Governor David Patterson from 2008 to 2009,
where he was responsible for all policy and strategic planning. From 2007 to
2008, Dr. Cohen was a managing director, health industries advisory services at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Prior to that, he spent 21 years with North
Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, one of the nation’s largest
not-for-profit health systems, including serving as its Chief Medical Officer
from 2000 to 2006.

Robert
A. Hagemann

(53) is Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. He joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in 1992, where he held
a variety of senior financial positions before being named Vice President and
Corporate Controller of the Company in 1996. Mr. Hagemann has served as Chief
Financial Officer since August 1998. He is a director of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Joan
E. Miller, Ph.D.

(55) is Senior Vice President –
Pathology and Hospital Services. Dr. Miller joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc.
in 1992 and since has held positions of increasing responsibility. Dr. Miller
was named Senior Managing Director, Nichols Institute in 2002 and Vice
President, Hospital Business in 2003. Since June 2007, Dr. Miller has overseen
the Company’s hospital testing services, including its esoteric testing
facilities, and its anatomic pathology testing services.

Michael
E. Prevoznik

(48) is Senior Vice President and General
Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice President and General Counsel
in August 1999. In 2003, he assumed responsibility for governmental affairs.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in positions of increasing
responsibility within the compliance organization at SmithKline Beecham, most
recently as Vice President, Compliance, with responsibility for coordinating
all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities worldwide.

Wayne
R. Simmons

(54) is Vice President – Operations. Since
July 2007, he has overseen the Company’s U.S. clinical testing operations. Mr.
Simmons joined the Company in February 2004 as Vice President for our central
region. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Simmons served in positions of
increasing responsibility with Philips Medical Systems, including, since 2002,
as Vice President of Supply Chain, in which position he was responsible for
operations at Philips Medical Systems CT Operations facilities globally.


I

tem 1A. Risk Factors

You
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report,
including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our
securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional
risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also
negatively impact us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

This
Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or
uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the
risks we face described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that May
Affect Future Results” on page 29.

Continued weakness in U.S., global, or
regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses.

The
economies of the United States and other regions of the world in which we do
business have recently experienced significant weakness which, in the case of
the U.S., has resulted in significant unemployment and reduced economic
activity. A continued decline in economic conditions may adversely affect
demand for our services and products, thus reducing our revenue. These
conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to
satisfy their obligations to us.

The clinical testing business is highly
competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service
or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse
effect on our net revenues and profitability.

While
there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical
testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry.

We
primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. We also compete with anatomic pathology
practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain
on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient).
In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for
outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Most physicians have admitting
privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their medical
practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community
physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the
hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices
generally require the practices to refer tests to the hospital’s laboratory. As
a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we
compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality of
service. Our failure to provide a broad test menu or service superior to
hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

If
we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and
our net revenues and profitability could be damaged.

Our business could be adversely impacted if
healthcare reform focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize
the value and importance of diagnostic testing.

Government
oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is
significant and may increase. There has been extensive discussion of U.S. federal
legislation to reform healthcare. While it is not possible to predict whether
U.S. federal legislation to reform healthcare will be enacted, or the nature
    or impact of any such legislation, our business could be adversely impacted
    if healthcare reform legislation focuses on reducing healthcare costs but
    does not appropriately recognize the value and importance of diagnostic testing.

Government payers, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of
healthcare services, including clinical test services.

We
face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for
clinical testing services.

From
time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the
Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition, CMS has adopted
policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We
also provide physician services which are reimbursed by Medicare under a
physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. CMS
changes add to our costs by increasing complexity and administrative
requirements for billing. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject
to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures.


In
addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to
expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare
beneficiaries, called “Medicare Advantage” programs, and has encouraged such
beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs.
There has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare
Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. Also in
recent years, states have increasingly mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries
enroll in private managed care arrangements. If these efforts continue to be
successful, we may experience a further shift of traditional Medicare and Medicaid
beneficiaries to private health insurance options. Recently, state budget
pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses that may impact
our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting
coverage eligibility, service coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our
services.

From
time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding
can be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at
attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. In 2008,
Congress enacted legislation that revoked CMS’ authority to conduct a
competitive bidding demonstration project for clinical testing services. State
governments also have considered from time to time whether to apply competitive
bidding to clinical testing services. The industry remains concerned about the
potential use of competitive bidding for clinical testing services and believes
that the quality of services and access to those services could be adversely
impacted by implementation of competitive bidding and the award of testing
service contracts to a few test providers. If competitive bidding were
implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing, it could
materially adversely affect us.

We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Healthcare plans have taken steps to control
the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical
test services.

We
also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare
plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services.

The
healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare
insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant
bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers,
including clinical testing providers. These healthcare plans, and independent
physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated
payment arrangements. In addition, some healthcare plans have been willing to
limit the PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to
obtain improved fee-for-service pricing. There are also an increasing number of
patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that
involve greater patient cost-sharing.

The
increased consolidation among healthcare plans also has increased the potential
adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.

We
expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent
cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. These
efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and
policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare plan, may have
a material adverse effect on our business.

Business development activities are
inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may
be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse
effect on our business.

We
plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business
development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments
and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of
appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar
opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a
number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the
potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The
success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and
capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills
contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with
strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests.

Each
acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that was previously
operated independently and has different systems, processes, policies and
cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the
diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of
businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and
systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation
and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in
retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse
effects on operating results. The process of combining companies may be
disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of
momentum in, such businesses as a result of


the following
difficulties, among others:

If
we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely
manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.
Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations
of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be
able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such
integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner.

Our business could be negatively affected if
we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency.

As
noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including
clinical testing services; such steps may continue. If we are unable to
continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our
profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected.

We are subject to numerous legal and
regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial
fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to
comply.

Our
business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state
levels), and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we
seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of
the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not
been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to:

These
laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We
may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any
other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our
products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we
fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we
could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation
in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as
incur additional liabilities from third party claims. If any of the foregoing
were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business
relationships with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have
a material adverse effect on our business.

We
regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from
governmental authorities. We


also are
subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or
other “whistle blowers.” The federal and state governments continue to
strengthen their position and scrutiny over healthcare fraud. In addition,
legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide federal
enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to
pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The government has substantial leverage in
negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the
rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and the
government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which represented
approximately 18% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and
related litigation can result in:

Although
we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or
tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with
applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved
favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion
of management focus may be extensive.

Changes
in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming
more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to
additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such
changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

Failure to timely or accurately bill for our
services could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Billing
for clinical testing services is extremely complicated and is subject to
extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on
the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as
patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and
employer groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity
and cost of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with
applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and
procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further,
our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result
of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems.

Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the
billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally
increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. We believe
that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack
of, or inaccurate, billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may
lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging
of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of
operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to
billing federal healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including:
(1) exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset
forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our
business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or cash flows.

Failure in our information technology
systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could
disrupt our operations and cause the loss of customers or business
opportunities.

Information
technology (IT) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer
service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in
part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may
be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar
disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems. Nevertheless, we may
experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions.


In
addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information
and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete.
Failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially
adversely affect our business. During system conversions of this type, workflow
is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system capabilities,
which may cause temporary disruptions in service. In addition, the
implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master files to
new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to be managed
carefully.

If
we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard
laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. For
example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver
test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. If our operations
are interrupted, it could adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss
of customers and net revenues.

Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for,
new tests, technology and services, could negatively impact our testing volume
and net revenues.

The
diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business
or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests that may
result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the
prices of our tests. Our success in continuing to introduce new tests,
technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and
improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or
introduce new tests. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable
licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield
commercially successful diagnostic tests. If we are unable to license these
testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may
increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce,
or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing
business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our
competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely
affected.

We may be unable to obtain, maintain or
enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual
property litigation that could adversely impact our business.

We
may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights
for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary
rights. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and
we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could
force us to do one or more of the following:

The development of new, more cost-effective
tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the
internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact
our testing volume and net revenues.

Advances
in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can
be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as (1)
point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or
(3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by
physicians in their offices. Although the CLIA compliance costs make it cost
prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their
offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to
increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians.
Diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically
deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician
office laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales
to both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care
testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our
customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and
negatively impact our net revenues.

Our
customers, such as hospitals and physicians, may internalize tests that we
currently perform. If our customers were to internalize tests that we currently
perform and we did not develop new or alternative tests attractive


to our
customers, the demand for our testing services may be reduced and our net
revenues may be materially adversely impacted.

Our outstanding debt may impair our financial
and operating flexibility.

As
of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.1 billion of debt outstanding.
Except for outstanding letters of credit and operating leases, we do not have
any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. Our debt
agreements contain various restrictive covenants. These restrictions could
limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business
because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest
payments on our debt. We have obtained ratings on our debt from Standard and
Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services and Fitch Ratings. There can be no
assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time
or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency
if in that rating agency’s judgment future circumstances relating to the basis
of the rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so
warrant. If such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior
unsecured revolving credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan
could increase. Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require
repayment or acceleration of any of our debt.

We
or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt, a greater portion of
our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we
do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may
need to seek additional financing. In this case, it may be more difficult, or
we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a
result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and
capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with
indebtedness.

Our ability to attract and retain qualified
employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so
may materially adversely affect our performance.

Our
people are a critical resource. The supply of qualified personnel may be
limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. If we were to lose,
or to fail to attract and retain, key management personnel or qualified skilled
technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research
centers or manufacturing facilities, our earnings and revenues could be
adversely affected. In addition, if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and
retain, skilled pathologists with positive relationships with their respective
local medical communities, particularly those with subspecialties, our earnings
and revenues could be adversely affected.

Failure to establish, and perform to,
appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is
observed in the performance of our testing services and in the design,
manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of
our operations and adversely impact our reputation.

The
provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services,
and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic
products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we provide and the
products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide
information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore,
users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors
than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes.

Manufacturing
or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure
of risks relating to the use of the products can lead to injury or other
adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to
our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and
could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market.
Any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that
could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of
our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against
us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new
product approvals.

Similarly,
negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse
events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for
acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital
employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We
are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our
reputation.

The failure of our IT systems to keep pace
with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase
our expenses.

Public
and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (HCIT)
standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the
electronic exchange of clinical information, including test orders and test
results, could require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While
we do not expect HCIT standards to be


adopted or
implemented without adequate time to comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in
implementing HCIT standards, we could lose customers and business
opportunities.

Our operations and reputation may be impaired
if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies.

In
our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient
data. If we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become
available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our
business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject
to fines, penalties and litigation.

We are subject to numerous political, legal,
operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which
could impact our business in many ways.

Although
we conduct most of our business in the United States, our expanding
international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing
business in international markets. Depending on the market, these risks
include, without limitation:

International
operations also require us to devote significant management resources to
implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to
overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures.

We
expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or
otherwise, which would increase these risks. As a result of these risks, our
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

Our medical diagnostic products business is
subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply
with these regulations and to develop compliant diagnostics products.

Our
medical diagnostic products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by
regulatory authorities outside the United States, including the European
Commission. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market
a medical diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and clearance or
approval for future products is never certain. Even when additional indications
or uses of existing products are sought, securing clearance or approval is not
predictable. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain clearance or
approval for, future products, or new indications or uses, could result in
delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs.

In
addition, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with
applicable regulations once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding
manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing
reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to
manufacturing quality concerns. Our diagnostic product facilities and
procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation,
including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities.
Failure to comply with applicable rules could result in, among other things,
substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds,
recalls or seizures of our products; a total or partial shutdown of production
in one or more of our facilities while we or our suppliers remedy the alleged
violation; the


inability
timely to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or
suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could
disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
revenues, profitability or financial condition.

Our efforts to develop commercially
successful medical diagnostic products may not succeed.

We
may commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to developing
commercially successful medical diagnostic products. A high rate of failure is
inherent in the development of new medical diagnostic products. There is no
assurance that our efforts to develop these products will be commercially
successful. Failure can occur at any point in the development process,
including after significant funds have been invested.

Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may have only limited
commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve
positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive
costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual
property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others.
Even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations
of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by newer
products, changing customer preferences or changing industry standards.
Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among
other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over
third party reimbursement. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any
of our medical diagnostic products under development will be launched, whether
we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire products, or whether
any diagnostic products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch
successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause our
products to become obsolete.

Our operations may be adversely impacted by
the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health
pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities.

Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of
terrorism or other criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary
decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our
employees’ ability to perform their job duties. In addition, such events may
temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials
from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.

Our business could be adversely impacted by
CMS’ adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses.

CMS
has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as ICD-10, which
significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. The new coding set is
currently required to be implemented by October 1, 2013. We may be required to
incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not
adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition,
if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate
codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests.

Adverse results in material litigation could
have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and
reputation.

We
are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property,
professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from
governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers regarding billing
issues. Some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial
in amount and could divert management’s attention from operations. The
proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage
to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have
insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any liability
with respect to such claims. The ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or
claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters
is determined or paid.

If we fail to comply with the requirements of
our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to suspension or
termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial
monetary penalties.

As
part of a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and other federal
government agencies, in April 2009 we entered into a five-year Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Office of Inspector General. If we fail to comply with our obligations under
the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be suspended or terminated from
participating in certain federal healthcare programs and subject to substantial
monetary penalties.


CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

Some
statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to
historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as
“may”, “believe”, “will”, “expect”, “project”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “plan”
or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans
and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to
unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information
presented in this document. The following important factors could cause our
actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted
or estimated by us in forward-looking statements:


I

tem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

There
are no unresolved SEC comments that require disclosure.

I

tem 2. Properties

Our
executive offices are located in Madison, New Jersey. We maintain clinical
testing laboratories in major metropolitan areas and elsewhere throughout the
continental United States; in several instances a joint venture of which we are
a partner maintains the laboratory. We also maintain offices, data centers,
billing centers, call centers, an assembly center, distribution centers,
patient service centers and a clinical trials testing laboratory at locations
throughout the United States. In addition, we maintain offices, manufacturing
facilities, patient service centers and clinical laboratories in locations
outside the United States, including in Sweden, Puerto Rico, Mexico, the United
Kingdom, India, Ireland and Australia. Our properties that are not owned are
leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards
in the communities where these properties are located. We believe that, in
general, our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current and
anticipated future levels of operation and are adequately maintained. We
believe that if we were unable to renew a lease on any of our facilities, we
could find alternative space


at competitive
market rates and relocate our operations to such new location without material
disruption to our business. Several of our principal facilities are highlighted
below.

I

tem 3. Legal Proceedings

In
addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, we
have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions,
including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection
with our activities as a provider of diagnostic testing, information and
services. These legal actions may include lawsuits alleging negligence or other
similar legal claims. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include
claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for
indeterminate amounts of damages, and could have an adverse impact on our
client base and reputation.

We
are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings
by governmental agencies regarding our business, including, among other
matters, operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments,
settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number of these
reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with
regard to many firms in the healthcare services industry, including our
Company.

We
maintain various liability insurance coverages for claims that could result
from providing or failing to provide clinical testing services, including
inaccurate testing results, and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits
our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims.

We
contest liability or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending
matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such
matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or
indeterminate damages or where investigations or proceedings are in the early
stages, we cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any,
related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they
ultimately will be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or
other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, we believe, based on
current knowledge, that the outcome of all other pending matters will not have
a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, although the
outcome of such matters could be material to our results of operations and cash
flows in the period that such matters are determined or paid, depending on,
among other things, the levels of our revenues or income for such period.

In
2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U. S. Attorney’s Office for the
District of New Jersey. The subpoena seeks the production of business and
financial records regarding capitation and risk sharing arrangements with
government and private payers for the years 1993 through 1999. The Company
cooperated with the U. S. Attorney’s Office.

In
2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U. S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Office of the Inspector General, seeking business records
including records regarding the Company’s relationship with health maintenance
organizations, independent physician associations, group purchasing
organizations, and preferred provider organizations relating back to 1995. The
Company has cooperated with the investigation. Subsequently, in November 2009,
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York partially unsealed
a civil complaint, U. S. ex rel. Fair Laboratory Practices Associates v. Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated, filed against the Company under the whistleblower
provisions of the federal False Claims Act. The complaint alleges, among other
things, violations of the federal anti-kickback law and the federal False
Claims Act in connection with the Company’s pricing of laboratory services.
The complaint seeks


damages for
alleged false claims associated with laboratory tests reimbursed by government
payors, treble damages and civil penalties.

In
2006 and 2008, the Company and several of its subsidiaries received subpoenas
from the California Attorney General’s Office seeking documents
relating to the Company’s billings to MediCal, the California
Medicaid program. The Company has cooperated with the government’s requests.
Subsequently, the State of California intervened as plaintiff in a civil
lawsuit, California ex rel. Hunter Laboratories, LLC v. Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated., et al., filed in California Superior Court against a number
of clinical laboratories, including the Company and several of its
subsidiaries. The complaint alleges overcharging of MediCal for testing
services. The complaint was originally filed by a competitor laboratory in
California under the whistleblower provisions of the California False
Claims Act. The complaint was unsealed on March 20, 2009.

In
June 2009, a shareholder plaintiff filed a purported derivative action in the
Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris County, on behalf of the Company against
certain present and former directors and officers of the Company based on,
among other things, their alleged breaches of fiduciary duties in connection
with the manufacture, marketing, sale and billing related to certain test kits
manufactured by NID. The complaint includes claims for, among other things,
breach of fiduciary duty and waste of corporate assets and seeks, among other
things, damages and remission of compensation received by the individual
defendants.

In
2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries also received subpoenas from
state agencies in three states which seek documents relating to the Company’s
Medicaid billing practices in those states. The Company is cooperating with the
requests.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on new theories as to the
Company’s practices which management believes to be in compliance with law. In
addition, certain federal and state statutes, including the qui tam provisions
of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits
against healthcare companies on behalf of government or private payers. The Company
is aware of certain pending individual or class action lawsuits, and has
received several subpoenas, related to billing practices filed under the qui
tam provisions of the False Claims Act and/or other federal and state statutes,
regulations or other laws. The Company understands that there may be other
pending qui tam claims brought by former employees or other “whistle blowers”
as to which the Company cannot determine the extent of any potential liability.

I

tem 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.


PART II

I

tem 5. Market for
Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

Our
common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol “DGX.” As of February 1, 2010, we had approximately 4,800 record holders
of our common stock; we believe that the number of beneficial holders of our
common stock exceeds the number of record holders. The following table sets
forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales price per share as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Consolidated Tape and dividend
information.

We
expect to fund future dividend payments with cash flows from operations, and do
not expect the dividend to have a material impact on our ability to finance
future growth.

The
table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on
behalf of the Company of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2009.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

(A)

Since the
 share repurchase program’s inception in May 2003, our Board of Directors has
 authorized $2.8 billion of share repurchases of our common stock through
 December 31, 2009.

(B)

Includes:
 (1) shares delivered or attested to in satisfaction of the exercise price
 and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee stock options
 (granted under the Company’s Amended and Restated Employee Long-Term
 Incentive Plan and its Amended and Restated Director Long-Term Incentive
 Plan,


collectively
 the “Stock Compensation Plans”) who exercised options; (2) restricted common
 shares withheld (under the terms of grants under the Stock Compensation
 Plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and
 release of the restricted common shares; and (3) shares withheld (under the
 terms of grants under the Stock Compensation Plans) to offset tax withholding
 obligations that occur upon the delivery of outstanding common shares
 underlying restricted stock units and performance share units.

(C)

In January
 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase an
 additional $750 million of the Company’s common stock. The share repurchase
 authorization has no set expiration or termination date.

Performance Graph

Set
forth below is a line graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return
on Quest Diagnostics’ common stock since December 31, 2004, based on the market
price of the Company’s common stock and assuming reinvestment of dividends,
with the cumulative total shareholder return of companies on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Healthcare Equipment & Services
Index.

Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total
Return

(1)

All values
 are adjusted to reflect the Company’s two-for-one stock split that occurred
 on June 20, 2005.

For
information regarding our equity compensation plans, see Item 12, page 36.

I

tem 6. Selected Financial
Data

See
page 40.


I

tem 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

See
page 42.

I

tem 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

I

tem 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data

See
Item 15(a)1 and Item 15(a)2.

I

tem 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

I

tem 9A. Controls and
Procedures

Conclusion Regarding Effectiveness of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as
of the end of the period covered by this annual report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

See
page 58.

Changes in Internal Control

During
the fourth quarter of 2009, there were no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended) that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

I

tem 9B. Other Information

None.


PART III

I

tem 10. Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Our
Code of Business Ethics applies to all employees, executive officers and
directors, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and
Corporate Controller. You can find our Code of Business Ethics on our corporate
governance website,

www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance.

We will post any amendments to the Code of Business Ethics, and any waivers
that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New
York Stock Exchange, on our website.

Information
regarding the Company’s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 1 of
this Report under “Executive Officers of the Company.” Information regarding
the directors and executive officers of the Company appearing in our Proxy
Statement to be filed by April 30, 2010 (“Proxy Statement”) under the captions
“Matter to be Considered at the Meeting – Proposal No. 1 - Election of
Directors,” “Information about our Corporate Governance – Director
Independence,” and “Information about our Corporate Governance – Board
Committees,” “Information about our Corporate Governance – Audit and Finance Committee”
is incorporated by reference herein.

I

tem 11. Executive
Compensation

Information
appearing in our Proxy Statement under the captions “2009 Director Compensation
Table,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Additional Information Regarding
Executive Compensation” and “Report of the Compensation Committee” is
incorporated by reference herein.

I

tem 12. Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders’ Matters

Equity Compensation
Plan Information

The
following table provides information as of December 31, 2009 about our common
stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights
under the Company’s existing equity compensation plans:


Information
regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
appearing in our Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock Ownership
Information” is incorporated by reference herein.

I

tem 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information
regarding certain relationships and related transactions appearing in our Proxy
Statement under the captions “Information about our Corporate Governance –
Related Person Transactions” and “Information about our Corporate Governance –
Director Independence” is incorporated by reference herein.

I

tem 14. Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

Information
regarding principal accountant fees and services appearing in our Proxy
Statement under the caption “Proposal No. 2 – Ratification of Appointment of
the Company’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” (excluding the
information under the subheading “Report of the Audit and Finance Committee”)
is incorporated by reference herein.


PART IV

I

tem 15. Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents
 filed as part of this Report.

1.

Index to
 financial statements and supplementary data filed as part of this Report.

2.

Financial
 Statement Schedule.

Item

Page

Schedule II – Valuation Accounts and Reserves

F-50


Signatures

Pursuant
to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 17, 2010.

Each
individual whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael E.
Prevoznik and William J. O’Shaughnessy, Jr., and each of them singly, his or
her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of
substitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might
or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all the said
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them or their or his or her substitute
or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on February 17, 2010.


S

ELECTED HISTORICAL
FINANCIAL DATA OF OUR COMPANY

The
following table summarizes selected historical financial data of our Company
and our subsidiaries at the dates and for each of the periods presented. We
derived the selected historical financial data for the years 2005 through 2009
from the audited consolidated financial statements of our Company. On January
1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard issued by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board that establishes accounting and reporting standards
for noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary in consolidated financial
statements. In accordance with this new standard, the Company has provided a
new presentation on the face of the consolidated financial statements to
separately classify noncontrolling interests within the equity section of the
consolidated balance sheets and to separately report the amounts attributable
to controlling and noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of
operations, comprehensive income and changes in equity for all periods
presented. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted a new accounting
standard that requires all employee stock-based compensation to be charged to
earnings using the modified prospective approach outlined in the accounting
standard and therefore has not restated results for periods prior to 2006.
During the third quarter of 2006, the Company completed its wind down of NID, a
test kit manufacturing subsidiary, and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. The selected historical financial data presented below
has been restated to report the results of NID as discontinued operations for
all periods presented. The selected historical financial data is only a summary
and should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements
and related notes of our Company and management’s discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations included elsewhere in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.



QUEST DIAGNOSTICS
INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

M

ANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

The
Clinical Testing Industry

Clinical
testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services.
Physicians use laboratory tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis,
evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions.

Most
laboratory tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
commercial clinical laboratories; hospital-affiliated laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. In 2009, we estimate that hospital-affiliated
laboratories accounted for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical
laboratories approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the
balance.

Orders
for laboratory testing are generated from physician offices, hospitals and
employers and can be affected by a number of factors. For example, changes in
the United States economy can affect the number of unemployed and uninsured,
and design changes in healthcare plans can affect the number of physician
office and hospital visits, and can impact the utilization of laboratory
testing.

While
the recent economic slow down in the United States may temporarily reduce
industry growth rates, we believe the clinical testing industry will continue
to grow over the long term because clinical testing is an essential healthcare
service and because of the following key trends:

The
diagnostic testing industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations in operating
results and cash flows. Typically, testing volume declines during the summer
months, year-end holiday periods and other major holidays, reducing net
revenues and operating cash flows below annual averages. Testing volume is also
subject to declines due to severe weather or other events, which can deter
patients from having testing performed and which can vary in duration and
severity from year to year.

Healthcare
Reform

Government
oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is
significant and increasing. The 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
included laws designed to expedite the implementation of electronic health
records and build a national electronic health infrastructure in the United
States. In addition, there has been extensive discussion of U.S. federal
legislation to reform healthcare. It is not possible to predict whether U.S.
federal legislation to reform healthcare will be enacted, or the nature or
impact of any such legislation.

Reimbursement
for Services

Payments
for clinical testing services are made by physicians, hospitals, employers,
healthcare insurers, patients and the government. Physicians, hospitals and
employers are typically billed on a fee-for-service basis based on negotiated
fee schedules. Fees billed to healthcare insurers and patients are based on the
laboratory’s patient fee schedule, subject to any limitations on fees
negotiated with the healthcare insurers or with physicians on behalf of their
patients. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements are based on fee schedules set
by governmental authorities.

Government
payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as healthcare insurers and
larger employers, have taken steps and may continue to take steps to control
the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical
testing services.

Healthcare
insurers, which typically negotiate directly or indirectly on behalf of their
members, represent approximately one-half of our clinical testing volumes and
one-half of our net revenues from our clinical testing


business.
Larger healthcare insurers typically prefer to use large commercial clinical
laboratories because they can provide services to their members on a national
or regional basis. In addition, larger commercial clinical laboratories are
better able to achieve the low-cost structures necessary to profitably service
the members of large healthcare insurers and can provide test utilization data
across various products in a consistent format. In certain markets, such as
California, healthcare insurers may delegate their covered members to
independent physician associations, which in turn negotiate with laboratories
for clinical testing services on behalf of their members.

The
trend of consolidation among physicians, hospitals, employers, healthcare
insurers, pharmaceutical companies and other intermediaries has continued,
resulting in fewer but larger customers and payers with significant bargaining
power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including
clinical laboratories. Healthcare insurers often require that clinical testing
service providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion
of the utilization risk associated with providing testing services to their
members enrolled in highly-restricted plans through capitated payment
arrangements. Under these capitated payment arrangements, we and the healthcare
insurers agree to a predetermined monthly reimbursement rate for each member
enrolled in the healthcare plan’s restricted plan, generally regardless of the
number or cost of services provided by us. Our cost to perform testing services
reimbursed under capitated payment arrangements is not materially different
from our cost to perform testing services reimbursed under other arrangements
with healthcare insurers. Since average reimbursement rates under capitated
payment arrangements are typically less than our overall average reimbursement
rate, the testing services reimbursed under capitated payment arrangements are
generally less profitable. In 2009, we derived approximately 14% of our testing
volume and 5% of our clinical testing net revenues from capitated payment
arrangements.

Most
healthcare insurers also offer programs such as preferred provider
organizations (“PPOs”) and consumer driven health plans that offer a greater
choice of healthcare providers. Pricing for these programs is typically
negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in higher
revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. Most of our
agreements with major healthcare insurers are non-exclusive arrangements. As a
result, under these non-exclusive arrangements, physicians and patients have
more freedom of choice in selecting laboratories, and laboratories are likely
to compete more on the basis of service and quality than they may otherwise. It
is increasingly important for healthcare providers to differentiate themselves
based on quality, service and convenience to avoid competing on price alone.

Despite
the general trend of increased choice for patients in selecting a healthcare
provider, recent experience indicates that some healthcare insurers may
actively seek to limit the choice of patients and physicians if they feel it
will give them increased leverage to negotiate lower fees, by consolidating
services with a single or limited network of contracted providers.
Historically, healthcare insurers, which had limited their network of
laboratory service providers, encouraged their members, and sometimes offered
incentives, to utilize only contracted providers. Patients who use a
non-contracted provider may have a higher co-insurance responsibility, which
may result in physicians referring testing to contracted providers to minimize
the expense to their patients. In cases where members choose to use a
non-contracted provider due to service, quality or convenience, the
non-contracted provider would be reimbursed at rates considered “reasonable and
customary.” Contracted rates are generally lower than “reasonable and
customary” rates.

We
also may be a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary network is
generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain
with various providers which provide discounted fees for the benefit of its
customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
expect that reimbursements for the diagnostic testing industry will continue to
remain under pressure. Today, the federal and many state governments face
serious budget deficits and healthcare spending is subject to reductions, and
efforts to reduce reimbursements and stringent cost controls by government and
other payers for existing tests may continue. However, we believe that as new
tests are developed which either improve on the effectiveness of existing tests
or provide new diagnostic capabilities, the government and other payers will
add these tests as covered services, because of the importance of laboratory
testing in assessing and managing the health of patients. We continue to
emphasize the importance and the high value of laboratory testing with
healthcare insurers and government payers at the federal and state level.


Our Company

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make better healthcare decisions. Quest Diagnostics, with a leading position in
most of its domestic geographic markets and service offerings, is well
positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry. Over
90% of our revenues are derived from clinical testing with the balance derived
from insurer services, clinical trials testing, diagnostic products and
healthcare information technology. Clinical testing is generally categorized as
clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services. Clinical
laboratory testing is performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body
fluids, such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples. Anatomic
pathology services are principally for the detection of cancer and are
performed on tissues, such as biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells.
We are the world’s leading cancer diagnostics company, focused on anatomic
pathology and molecular diagnostics, and provide interpretive consultation
through the largest medical and scientific staff in the industry, with
approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s primarily located in the United States. In
addition, we are the leading provider of gene-based testing and other esoteric
testing, risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and testing
for drugs-of-abuse. We are also a leading provider of testing for clinical
trials. Our diagnostics products business manufactures and markets diagnostic
test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We also empower healthcare
organizations and clinicians with state-of-the-art information technology solutions
that can improve patient care and medical practice.

Six
Sigma and Standardization Initiatives/Efforts to Improve Operating Efficiency

The
diagnostic testing industry is labor intensive. Employee compensation and
benefits constitute approximately one-half of our total costs and expenses.
Cost of services consists principally of costs for obtaining, transporting and
testing specimens. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist
principally of the costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts,
billing operations (including bad debt expense), and general management and
administrative support. In addition, performing diagnostic testing involves
significant fixed costs for facilities and other infrastructure required to
obtain, transport and test specimens. Therefore, relatively small changes in
volume can have a significant impact on profitability in the short-term.

A
large portion of our costs are fixed, making it more challenging to fully
mitigate the profit impact of lost volume in the short term. In July 2007, we
announced a program to adjust our cost structure while maintaining and, in some
cases improving, service levels. Since then, this program has been a
significant contributor to our increase in operating income as a percentage of
net revenues. As we exited 2009, we estimate that our program has resulted in
over $500 million of annualized cost reductions.

We
intend to become recognized as the quality leader in the healthcare services industry
through utilizing the Six Sigma approach and Lean Six Sigma principles. Six
Sigma is a management approach that enhances quality and requires a thorough
understanding of customer needs and experience, root cause analysis, process
improvements and rigorous tracking and measuring of key metrics. Lean Six Sigma
streamlines processes and eliminates waste. We utilize the Six Sigma approach
and Lean Six Sigma principles to increase the efficiency of our operations and
to reduce operating cost. We have utilized Six Sigma to implement the
initiatives which are part of our cost reduction program and to provide a
better customer experience. These initiatives relate to standardizing our
operations and processes, and adopting identified company best practices. One
of these key initiatives is to deploy Lean Six Sigma in our laboratories to
realize productivity gains. Additionally, we have realized efficiencies in
other areas by better aligning our service capacity with patient and sample
flows. We are driving more of our purchasing through master contracts to take
better advantage of our scale. We are continuing to expand the use of customer
connectivity which reduces costs in specimen data entry and billing, and helps
lower our bad debt. We are improving the efficiency of our logistics routes
using advanced route optimization tools and we have streamlined our management
structure and administrative functions to improve efficiency and increase
focus. We expect to continue deploying best practices and developing additional
initiatives designed to further improve quality and the efficiency of our
operations.

Growth Through Acquisition

The
clinical testing industry in the United States remains fragmented and highly
competitive. Our growth will be comprised of a combination of organic and
acquired growth. We expect to continue to selectively evaluate potential
acquisitions of domestic clinical laboratories that can be integrated into our
existing laboratories, thereby increasing access for patients and enabling us
to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. While over the long term we believe
positive industry factors in the United States diagnostic testing industry and
the differentiated services we offer to our customers will enable us to grow
organically, we believe there will continue to be opportunities to grow beyond
our current principal business of offering clinical testing in the United
States. Technology is enabling testing to be performed closer to the patient,
whether in the physician’s office or at the hospital bedside, in the form of
point-of-care testing. Given that physicians and hospitals are primary sources
for both point-of-care testing and laboratory performed


tests, we
believe providing both services will strengthen our relationships with customers
and accelerate our growth.

Additionally,
diagnostic testing in international markets, particularly developing countries,
is highly fragmented and less mature. Continued expansion into point-of-care
testing and international markets will diversify our revenue base, and add
businesses in markets which are growing faster and are more profitable than our
principal business of United States based clinical testing.

Critical Accounting Policies

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make
estimates and assumptions and select accounting policies that affect our
reported financial results and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities.

While
many operational aspects of our business are subject to complex federal, state
and local regulations, the accounting for most of our business is generally
straightforward with net revenues primarily recognized upon completion of the
testing process. Our revenues are primarily comprised of a high volume of
relatively low dollar transactions, and about one-half of our total costs and
expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits. Due to the nature of
our business, several of our accounting policies involve significant estimates
and judgments:

Revenues
and accounts receivable associated with clinical testing

The
process for estimating the ultimate collection of receivables associated with
our clinical testing business involves significant assumptions and judgments.
Billings for services reimbursed by third-party payers, including Medicare and
Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for differences between
amounts billed and the estimated receipts from such payers. Adjustments to the
allowances, based on actual receipts from the third-party payers, are recorded
upon settlement as an adjustment to net revenues.

We
have a standardized approach to estimate and review the collectibility of our
receivables based on a number of factors, including the period they have been
outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement experience is an
integral part of the estimation process related to allowances for doubtful
accounts. In addition, we regularly assess the state of our billing operations
in order to identify issues, which may impact the collectibility of receivables
or allowance estimates. We believe that the collectibility of our receivables
is directly linked to the quality of our billing processes, most notably those
related to obtaining the correct information in order to bill effectively for
the services we provide. As such, we have implemented “best practices” to
reduce the number of requisitions that we receive from healthcare providers
with missing or incorrect billing information. Revisions to the allowances for
doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense
within selling, general and administrative expenses. We believe that our
collection and allowance estimation processes, along with our close monitoring
of our billing operations, help to reduce the risk associated with material
revisions to reserve estimates. Less than 5% of our net accounts receivable as
of December 31, 2009 were outstanding more than 150 days.

Healthcare
insurers

Reimbursements
from healthcare insurers represents approximately one-half of our clinical
testing net revenues. Reimbursements from healthcare insurers are based on
negotiated fee-for-service schedules and on capitated payment rates.

Receivables
due from healthcare insurers represent approximately 28% of our clinical
testing net accounts receivable. Substantially all of the accounts receivable
due from healthcare insurers represent amounts billed under negotiated
fee-for-service arrangements. We utilize a standard approach to establish
allowances for doubtful accounts for such receivables, which considers the
aging of the receivables and results in increased allowance requirements as the
aging of the related receivables increases. Our approach also considers
historical collection experience and other factors. Collection of such
receivables is normally a function of providing complete and correct billing
information to the healthcare insurers within the various filing deadlines. For
healthcare insurers, collection typically occurs within 30 to 60 days of
billing. Provided we have billed healthcare plans accurately with complete information
prior to the established filing deadline, there has historically been little to
no collection risk. If there has been a delay in billing, we


determine if
the amounts in question will likely go past the filing deadline, and if so, we
will reserve accordingly for the billing.

Approximately
5% of our clinical testing net revenues are reimbursed under capitated payment
arrangements in which case the healthcare insurers typically reimburse us in
the same month services are performed, essentially giving rise to no
outstanding accounts receivable at month-end. If any capitated payments are not
received on a timely basis, we determine the cause and make a separate
determination as to whether or not the collection of the amount from the healthcare
insurer is at risk and if so, would reserve accordingly.

Government
payers

Payments
for clinical testing services made by the government are based on fee schedules
set by governmental authorities. Receivables due from government payers under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs represent approximately 15% of our clinical
testing net accounts receivable. Collection of such receivables is normally a
function of providing the complete and correct billing information within the
various filing deadlines. Collection typically occurs within 30 days of
billing. Our processes for billing, collecting and estimating uncollectible
amounts for receivables due from government payers, as well as the risk of
non-collection, are substantially the same as those noted above for healthcare
insurers under negotiated fee-for-service arrangements.

Client
payers

Client
payers include physicians, hospitals, employers and other commercial
laboratories, and are billed based on a negotiated fee schedule. Receivables
due from client payers represent approximately 35% of our clinical testing net
accounts receivable. Credit risk and ability to pay are more of a consideration
for these payers than healthcare insurers and government payers. We utilize a
standard approach to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for such
receivables, which considers the aging of the receivables and results in
increased allowance requirements as the aging of the related receivables
increase. Our approach also considers specific account reviews, historical
collection experience and other factors.

Patient
receivables

Patients
are billed based on established patient fee schedules, subject to any
limitations on fees negotiated with healthcare insurers or physicians on behalf
of their patients. Receivables due from patients represent approximately 22% of
our clinical testing net accounts receivable. Collection of receivables due
from patients is subject to credit risk and ability of the patients to pay. We
utilize a standard approach to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for
such receivables, which considers the aging of the receivables and results in
increased allowance requirements as the aging of the related receivables
increases. Our approach also considers historical collection experience and
other factors. Patient receivables are generally fully reserved for when the
related billing reaches 210 days outstanding. Balances are automatically
written off when they are sent to collection agencies. Reserves are adjusted
for estimated recoveries of amounts sent to collection agencies based on
historical collection experience, which is regularly monitored.

Reserves
for general and professional liability claims

As
a general matter, providers of clinical testing services may be subject to
lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These suits could
involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability litigation
could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. We
maintain various liability insurance coverages for claims that could result
from providing, or failing to provide, clinical testing services, including
inaccurate testing results, and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits
our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims. While the basis for
claims reserves considers actuarially determined losses based upon our
historical and projected loss experience, the process of analyzing, assessing
and establishing reserve estimates relative to these types of claims involves
    a high degree of judgment. Changes in the facts and circumstances associated
    with claims could have a material impact on our results of operations, principally
costs of services, and cash flows in the period that reserve estimates are
revised or paid. Although we believe that our present insurance coverage and
reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures, it is possible
that we may incur liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage or recorded
reserves.

Reserves
for other legal proceedings

Our
business is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and
local laws and regulations. We have, in the past, entered into several
settlement agreements with various government and private payers relating to
industry-wide billing and marketing practices that had been substantially
discontinued. The federal or state governments may bring additional claims
based on new theories as to our practices which management believes to be in
compliance with law. In addition, certain federal and state statutes, including
the qui tam provisions of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals
to bring lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government or
private payers


alleging
inappropriate billing practices. We are aware of certain pending lawsuits
including a class action lawsuit, and have received several subpoenas related
to billing practices. See Notes 15 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion of the various legal proceedings that involve the
Company.

We
have a comprehensive compliance program that is intended to ensure the strict
implementation and observance of all applicable laws, regulations and Company
policies. Management regularly reports to the Quality, Safety & Compliance
Committee of our Board of Directors regarding compliance operations. As an
integral part of our compliance program, we investigate all reported or
suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement
requirements. Any non-compliance that results in Medicare or Medicaid
overpayments is reported to the government and reimbursed by us. As a result of
these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported overpayments. Upon
becoming aware of potential overpayments, we consider all available facts and
circumstances to estimate and record the amounts to be reimbursed. While we
have reimbursed these overpayments and have taken corrective action where
appropriate, the government may not in each instance accept these actions as
sufficient.

The
process of analyzing, assessing and establishing reserve estimates relative to
legal proceedings involves a high degree of judgment. Management has
established reserves for legal proceedings in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Changes in facts and circumstances related to
such proceedings could lead to significant revisions to reserve estimates for
such matters and could have a material impact on our results of operations,
cash flows and financial condition in the period that reserve estimates are
revised or paid.

Accounting
for and recoverability of goodwill

Goodwill
is our single largest asset. We evaluate the recoverability and measure the
potential impairment of our goodwill annually. The annual impairment test is a
two-step process that begins with the estimation of the fair value of the
reporting unit. The first step screens for potential impairment and the second
step measures the amount of the impairment, if any. Our estimate of fair value
considers publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of
our Company, as well as (i) the financial projections and future prospects of
our business, including its growth opportunities and likely operational
improvements, and (ii) comparable sales prices, if available. As part of the
first step to assess potential impairment, we compare our estimate of fair
value for the reporting unit to the book value of the reporting unit. We
determine the fair value of the reporting units based on the income approach.
Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit
based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the book value is
greater than our estimate of fair value, we would then proceed to the second
step to measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied
fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is
determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the
assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired
in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the
purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value
of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities
is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting
unit’s goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will
be recognized in the amount of the excess. We believe our estimation methods
are reasonable and reflect common valuation practices.

On
a quarterly basis, we perform a review of our business to determine if events
or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have a material adverse
effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If such events or
changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, we would perform an
impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the quarter, consistent with the
annual impairment test performed at the end of our fiscal year on December
31st, and record any noted impairment loss.

Accounting
for stock-based compensation expense

We
record stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings, net of the estimated
impact of forfeited awards. As such, we recognize stock-based compensation cost
only for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over
their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the
individual grants. The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based
compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their
requisite service periods involves significant assumptions and judgments.

We
estimate the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using a
lattice-based option-valuation model which requires management to make certain
assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of the
Company’s common stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates;
and (iv) the period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to
exercise (referred to as the expected holding period). The expected volatility
under the lattice-based option-valuation model is based on the current and
historical implied volatilities from traded options of our common stock. The
dividend yield is based on the approved annual dividend rate in effect and
current market price of the underlying common stock at the time of grant. The
risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at
the time of grant for bonds with maturities ranging from one month to ten
years. The expected holding period of the awards granted is estimated using the
historical exercise behavior of employees. In


addition, we
estimate the expected impact of forfeited awards and recognize stock-based
compensation cost only for those awards expected to vest. We use historical
experience to estimate projected forfeitures. If actual forfeiture rates are
materially different from our estimates, stock-based compensation expense could
be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. We
periodically review actual forfeiture experience and revise our estimates, as
considered necessary. The cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a
change in the estimated forfeiture rate is recognized as compensation cost in
earnings in the period of the revision.

The
terms of our performance share unit grants allow the recipients of such awards
to earn a variable number of shares based on the achievement of the performance
goals specified in the awards. For performance share unit awards granted prior
to 2008, the actual amount of any stock award earned is based on the Company’s
earnings per share growth as measured in accordance with the provisions of the
Amended and Restated Quest Diagnostics Incorporated Employee Long-Term
Incentive Plan for the performance period compared to that of a peer group of
companies. We periodically obtain and review publicly available financial
information for the members of the peer group, including historical earnings
per share growth as well as published estimates of projected earnings per share
growth and compare that to actual and estimated future performance of the
Company. This information is used to evaluate our progress towards achieving
the performance criteria and our estimate of the number of performance share
units expected to be earned at the end of the performance period. Beginning
with performance share unit awards granted in 2008, the performance measure for
these awards is based on the compound annual growth rate of the Company’s
earnings per share from continuing operations over a three year period.
Stock-based compensation expense associated with performance share units is
recognized based on management’s best estimates of the achievement of the
performance goals specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares
that will be earned. If the actual number of performance share units earned is
different from our estimates, stock-based compensation could be significantly
different from what we have recorded in the current period. The cumulative effect
on current and prior periods of a change in the estimated number of performance
share units expected to be earned is recognized as compensation cost in
earnings in the period of the revision. While the assumptions used to calculate
and account for stock-based compensation awards represent management’s best
estimates, these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application
of management’s judgment. As a result, if revisions are made to our assumptions
and estimates, our stock-based compensation expense could vary significantly
from period to period. In addition, the number of awards made under our equity
compensation plans, changes in the design of those plans, the price of our
shares and the performance of our Company can all cause stock-based compensation
expense to vary from period to period.

Results of Operations

Our
clinical testing business currently represents our one reportable business
segment. The clinical testing business for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2009 accounted for more than 90% of net revenues from
continuing operations. Our other operating segments consist of our risk
assessment services business, our clinical trials testing business, our
healthcare information technology business and our diagnostic products
business. On April 19, 2006, we decided to discontinue the operations of a test
kit manufacturing subsidiary, NID. During the third quarter of 2006, we
completed the wind down of NID. Therefore, the operations of NID are classified
as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Our business segment
information is disclosed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Year
Ended December 31, 2009 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2008

Continuing
Operations

Income
from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $730
million, or $3.88 per diluted share, compared to $632 million, or $3.22 per
diluted share, in 2008. The increase in income from continuing operations was principally
driven by improved operating performance and lower interest expense.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2009 include pre-tax charges of $20.4 million,
or $0.07 per diluted share, associated with the early extinguishment of debt and
$7.0 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, associated with the write-down of an
investment. These charges were offset by a $15.5 million gain, or $0.05 per
diluted share, associated with an insurance settlement for storm-related losses
and a benefit of $0.04 per diluted share resulting from certain discrete tax
benefits.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2008 include a third quarter charge of $8.9
million, or $0.03 per diluted share, associated with the write-down of an
equity investment and pre-tax charges of $16.2 million, or $0.05 per diluted
share, primarily associated with workforce reductions. These charges were
offset by favorable resolutions of various tax contingencies in 2008, which
increased diluted earnings per share by $0.08. In addition, we estimate the
impact of hurricanes in the third quarter of 2008 adversely impacted operating
income for the year ended December 31,


2008 by
approximately $8 million or $0.02 per diluted share.

Net
Revenues

Net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 grew by 2.8% over the prior year
level to $7.5 billion. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue growth
for the year ended December 31, 2009 by 0.4%.

For
2009, revenues of our clinical testing business, which accounts for over 90% of
our net revenues, grew 3.2% above the prior year level. Declines in
pre-employment drug testing, which is part of our clinical testing business,
reduced consolidated revenues by 0.7%. Clinical testing volume, measured by the
number of requisitions, decreased 0.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Pre-employment drug testing volume, which accounted for approximately 5% of our
total clinical testing volume in 2009, declined approximately 22% and reduced
consolidated volume by 1.5%. We believe the volume decrease in pre-employment
drug testing continues to be principally due to reduced hiring by employers
served by this business. Our decision to exit certain laboratory management
agreements that did not meet our profitability thresholds also reduced volume
by 0.4%. Revenue per requisition increased 3.9% for the year ended December 31,
2009, with the increase primarily driven by a positive test mix and a 4.5%
increase in the Medicare laboratory fee which went into effect January 1, 2009
and contributed approximately a one-half percent increase in revenue per
requisition.

Our
businesses other than clinical testing accounted for approximately 8% of our
net revenues in 2009. These businesses include our risk assessment services
business, our clinical trials testing business, our healthcare information
technology business and our diagnostic products business. These businesses
contain most of our international operations and, in the aggregate, reported
revenues for 2009 were comparable to the prior year level, despite the impact
of foreign exchange which reduced the combined revenues of these businesses by
approximately 4%.

Operating
Costs and Expenses

Total
operating costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $69
million from the prior year period and decreased as a percentage of net
revenues to 81.8% compared to 83.1% in 2008. Actions we have taken to improve
our operating efficiency and reduce the size of our workforce, and discrete
cost containment actions taken during 2009 have enabled us to realize modest
cost increases on increased net revenues. These efforts, coupled with higher
revenue per requisition, served to reduce operating costs and expenses as a
percentage of net revenues. In addition, results for the year ended December
31, 2009 include a $15.5 million second quarter gain related to an insurance
settlement for storm-related losses while results for the year ended December
31, 2008 include fourth quarter charges of $16.2 million, primarily associated
with workforce reductions ($7.7 million recorded in costs of services and $8.5
million included in selling, general and administrative).

Also,
year-over-year comparisons were adversely impacted by approximately $16 million
associated with investment gains and losses associated with investments in our
supplemental deferred compensation plan. Under our supplemental deferred
compensation plan, employee compensation deferrals, together with Company
matching contributions, are invested in a variety of participant-directed
investments held in a trust. Gains and losses associated with the investments
are recorded in earnings within “other expense, net.” A corresponding and
offsetting adjustment is also recorded to the deferred compensation obligation
to reflect investment gains and losses earned by the employee. Such adjustments
to the deferred compensation obligation are recorded in earnings principally
within “selling, general and administrative expenses” and offset the amount of
investment gains and losses recorded in “other expense, net.” Results for 2009
included an increase in operating costs of $6.0 million, representing an
increase in the deferred compensation obligation to reflect investment gains
earned by employees participating in our deferred compensation plan. Results
for 2008 included a reduction in operating costs of $9.9 million, representing
a decrease in the deferred compensation obligation to reflect investment losses
incurred by employees participating in our deferred compensation plan.

Cost
of services, which includes the costs of obtaining, transporting and testing
specimens, was 58% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009,
compared to 58.7% of net revenues in 2008. The improvement over the prior year
reflects actions taken to reduce our cost structure and higher revenue per
requisition.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses, which include the costs of the sales
force, billing operations, bad debt expense, and general management and
administrative support, were 23.4% of net revenues for the year ended December
31, 2009, compared to 24.0% in the prior year period. The improvement was
primarily due to actions taken to reduce our cost structure and higher revenue
per requisition. In addition, year-over-year comparisons of selling, general
and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues were adversely
impacted by approximately 20 basis points associated with investment gains and
losses earned by employees on assets held in trust under our deferred
compensation plan discussed earlier.


For
the year ended December 31, 2009, bad debt expense was 4.3% of net revenues
compared to 4.5% in the prior year period. Continued progress in our billing
and collection processes has resulted in stable bad debt, and improvements in
days sales outstanding and the cost of our billing operation. With our
disciplined approach, we expect to see continued strong performance in our
billing and collection metrics, despite a slow economy.

Other
operating (income) expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense
items related to operating activities, including gains and losses associated
with the disposal of operating assets and provisions for restructurings and
other special charges. For the year ended December 31, 2009, other operating
(income) expense, net includes a $15.5 million second quarter gain associated
with an insurance settlement for storm-related losses.

Operating Income

Operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1.4 billion, or 18.2% of net
revenues, compared to $1.2 billion, or 16.9% of net revenues, in the prior year
period. The improvement in operating income, as a percentage of net revenues,
was primarily due to higher revenue per requisition and progress we are making
with our cost reduction program, as well as discrete cost containment actions
we took during 2009. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 also
includes a $15.5 million gain associated with an insurance settlement for
storm-related losses, which contributed approximately 20 basis points to the
improvement. The operating income percentage for the year ended December 31,
2009 also reflects the impact of the various items which served to reduce cost
of services and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of
net revenues. Results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include a charge of
$16.2 million, primarily associated with workforce reductions, which reduced
operating income, as a percentage of net revenues, by approximately 20 basis
points. In addition, year-over-year comparisons were adversely impacted by
approximately $16 million, or approximately 20 basis points, associated with
investment gains and losses earned by employees on assets held in trust under
our deferred compensation plan.

Other Income (Expense)

Interest
expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $36 million
compared to the prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to lower
interest rates on our variable-interest rate debt compared to the prior year
period.

Other
expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense items related to
non-operating activities such as gains and losses associated with investments
and other non-operating assets. For the year ended December 31, 2009, other
expense, net includes $20.4 million of pre-tax charges associated with the
early extinguishment of debt and a $7.0 million charge associated with the
write-down of an investment, partially offset by gains of $6.0 million
associated with investments held in trust pursuant to our supplemental deferred
compensation plan. For the year ended December 31, 2008, other expense, net
includes a third quarter charge of $8.9 million associated with the write-down
of an equity investment and losses of $9.9 million associated with investments
held in a trust pursuant to our supplemental deferred compensation plan.

Income
Tax Expense

The
effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were
37.5% and 36.8%, respectively. The increase is primarily due to the favorable
resolution of various tax contingencies reflected in the effective income tax
rate for 2008.

Discontinued
Operations

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, for the year ended December 31,
2009 was $1.2 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, compared to a loss of $51
million, or $0.26 per diluted share, in 2008. During the third quarter of 2008,
the Company and NID reached an agreement in principle with the United States
Attorney’s Office to settle the previously disclosed federal government
investigation of NID, a test kit subsidiary voluntarily closed in 2006. As a
result of the agreement in principle, during 2008, the Company recorded charges
of $75 million in discontinued operations to increase its reserves for the
settlement and related matters. On April 15, 2009, the Company entered into a
final settlement agreement with the federal government and paid $308 million,
which had been previously reserved in connection with the final settlement. See
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared with Year Ended
December 31, 2007

Continuing
Operations

Income
from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $632
million, or $3.22 per diluted share, compared to $554 million, or $2.84 per
diluted share, in 2007. The increase in income from continuing


operations was
principally driven by revenue growth and actions we have taken to reduce our
cost structure.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2008 include charges totaling $25.1 million, or
$0.08 per diluted share consisting of: a third quarter charge of $8.9 million,
or $0.03 per diluted share, associated with the write-down of an equity
investment; and a fourth quarter charge of $16.2 million, or $0.05 per diluted
share, primarily associated with workforce reductions. These charges were
offset by favorable resolutions of various tax contingencies in 2008, which increased
diluted earnings per share by $0.08.

In
addition, for 2008 we estimate the impact of hurricanes in the third quarter of
2008 adversely impacted operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008
by approximately $8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, compared to the prior
year.

During
the first quarter of 2007, we became a non-contracted provider to United
Healthcare Group Inc., (“UNH”). As a result of the change in status, our
revenues and earnings were significantly impacted for the first quarter and
full year 2007. However, the ongoing profit impact was successfully mitigated
by the end of 2007 as a result of our actions to reduce costs, and higher
reimbursement for the testing we continued to perform for UNH members as a
non-contracted provider.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2007 include first quarter pre-tax charges of
$10.7 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, associated with workforce reductions
in response to reduced volume levels, and a first quarter pre-tax charge of
$4.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, related to in-process research and
development expense associated with the acquisition of HemoCue, a Sweden-based
company specializing in point-of-care testing.

Net
Revenues

Net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 grew by 8.1% over the prior year
level to $7.2 billion, with the carry-over impact from the 2007 acquisition of
AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc. (“AmeriPath”) contributing approximately 5.0% to
revenue growth in 2008.

For
2008, revenues of our clinical testing business, which accounts for over 90% of
our net revenues, grew 8.3% above the prior year level, with AmeriPath
contributing 5.5% growth. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, increased
2.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008, with 2.4% due to the impact of the
AmeriPath acquisition. Our pre-employment drug testing volume, which accounted
for approximately 7% of our total volume in 2008, declined approximately 11%
and reduced consolidated volume by approximately 1%. We believe the volume
decrease in pre-employment drug testing was principally due to slower hiring by
employers served by this business. Revenue per requisition increased 5.5% for
the year ended December 31, 2008, with AmeriPath contributing 2.9% to the
improvement. The balance of the increase was primarily driven by a positive
mix, partially offset by price reductions on various health plan contracts.

Our
businesses other than clinical testing accounted for approximately 9% of our
net revenues in 2008. These businesses include our risk assessment services
business, our clinical trials testing business, our healthcare information
technology business and our diagnostic products business. The revenues for these
businesses as a group grew about 6% for the year ended December 31, 2008 with
the increase primarily driven by our healthcare information technology and
point-of-care businesses.

Operating
Costs and Expenses

Total
operating costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased
$414 million from the prior year period. These increases were primarily due to
the full year effect of costs associated with the acquired operations of
AmeriPath, and increased costs associated with annual compensation adjustments,
partially offset by actions taken to improve our operating efficiency and
reduce the size of our workforce. Results for the year ended December 31, 2008
also include fourth quarter charges of $16.2 million primarily associated with
workforce reductions ($7.7 million recorded in costs of services and $8.5
million included in selling, general and administrative).

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2007 reflect first quarter costs of $10.7
million associated with workforce reductions ($3.9 million included in cost of
services and $6.8 million included in selling, general and administrative), $4
million of in-process research and development costs associated with the
acquisition of HemoCue, which was recorded in “other operating (income)
expense, net”, and costs associated with efforts to retain business and clarify
for patients, physicians and employers misinformation regarding the UNH
contract change.

Cost
of services, which includes the costs of obtaining, transporting and testing
specimens, was 58.7% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008,
compared to 59.2% of net revenues in 2007. The improvement over the prior year
reflects actions taken to reduce our cost structure and higher revenue per
requisition.


Selling,
general and administrative expenses, which include the costs of the sales
force, billing operations, bad debt expense, and general management and
administrative support, were 24.0% of net revenues for the year ended December
31, 2008, compared to 24.1% in the prior year period. The improvement was
primarily due to actions taken to reduce our cost structure and higher revenue
per requisition, partially offset by the full year impact of the acquired
operations of AmeriPath and costs associated with workforce reductions.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007
included costs associated with workforce reductions and costs associated with
efforts to retain business and clarify for patients, physicians and employers
misinformation regarding the UNH contract change.

For
the year ended December 31, 2008, bad debt expense was 4.5% of net revenues,
similar to 2007. For 2008, the full year inclusion of AmeriPath, which carries
a higher bad debt rate than the rest of our business, primarily due to its
revenue and customer mix, increased the consolidated bad debt rate by
approximately half a percent for 2008. The impact was principally offset by
progress in our billing and collection processes, resulting in improvements in
bad debt, days sales outstanding and the cost of our billing operation.

Amortization
of intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $9.4
million over the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to the
amortization of intangible assets acquired in conjunction with the acquisition
of AmeriPath.

Other
operating (income) expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense
items related to operating activities, including gains and losses associated
with the disposal of operating assets and provisions for restructurings and
other special charges. For the year ended December 31, 2007, other operating
(income) expense, net includes a $4.0 million first quarter charge related to
in-process research and development expense recorded in connection with the
acquisition of HemoCue.

Operating
Income

Operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1.2 billion, or 16.9% of net
revenues, compared to $1.1 billion, or 16.3% of net revenues, in the prior year
period. The increase in operating income, as a percentage of net revenues, was
primarily due to revenue growth and the actions we have taken to reduce our
cost structure, partially offset by the full year impact of the acquired
operations of AmeriPath. In addition, we estimate the impact of hurricanes in the third quarter of 2008
adversely impacted operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 by
approximately $8 million, compared to the prior year.

In addition, the
operating income percentage for the year ended December 31, 2008, reflects the
impact of a fourth quarter charge of $16.2 million, principally associated with
workforce reductions and the impact of the various items which affected cost of
services and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of
net revenues.

Other
Income (Expense)

Other
expense, net represents miscellaneous income and expense items related to non-operating
activities such as gains and losses associated with investments and other
non-operating assets. For the year ended December 31, 2008, other expense, net
includes a third quarter charge of $8.9 million associated with the write-down
of an equity investment and losses of $9.9 million associated with investments
held in a trust pursuant to our supplemental deferred compensation plan. For
the year ended December 31, 2007, other expense, net includes a $4 million
charge related to the write-down of an investment.

Income
Tax Expense

The
effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were
36.8% and 38.2%, respectively. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to the
favorable resolution of various tax contingencies in 2008.

Discontinued
Operations

During
the third quarter of 2008, the Company and NID reached an agreement in
principle with the United States Attorney’s Office to settle the previously
disclosed federal government investigation of NID, a test kit subsidiary
voluntarily closed in 2006. Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes,
for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $51 million, or $0.26 per diluted
share, compared to $214 million, or $1.10 per diluted share in 2007. Results
for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 reflect charges of $75 million
and $241 million, respectively, to reserve for the settlement and related
matters, which are more fully described in Note 16 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.


Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk

We
address our exposure to market risks, principally the market risk of changes in
interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that includes
the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not hold or issue derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes. We believe that our exposures to
foreign exchange impacts and changes in commodities prices are not material to
our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. See Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of our
financial instruments and hedging activities.

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of our debt was estimated at
approximately $3.3 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, using quoted market
prices and yields for the same or similar types of borrowings, taking into
account the underlying terms of the debt instruments. At December 31, 2009, the
estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of the debt by $151 million
and at December 31, 2008, the carrying value exceeded the estimated fair value
of the debt by $155 million. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates
(representing 46 basis points and 53 basis points at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively) would potentially reduce the estimated fair value of our
debt by approximately $96 million and $75 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively.

Borrowings
under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our secured receivables
credit facility and our term loan due May 2012 are subject to variable interest
rates. Interest on our secured receivables credit facility is based on rates
that are intended to approximate commercial paper rates for highly-rated
issuers. Interest rates on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and
term loan due May 2012 are subject to a pricing schedule that can fluctuate
based on changes in our credit ratings. As such, our borrowing cost under these
credit arrangements will be subject to both fluctuations in interest rates and
changes in our credit ratings. As of December 31, 2009, the borrowing rates
under these credit facilities were: for our secured receivables credit
facility, 1.38%; for our senior unsecured credit facility, LIBOR plus 0.40%;
and for our term loan due May 2012, LIBOR plus 0.50%. At December 31, 2009, the
weighted average LIBOR rate was 0.23%. At December 31, 2009, there were $742
million outstanding under our term loan due May 2012 and no borrowings outstanding
under our $750 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility or our $525
million secured receivables credit facility.

Our objective is to mitigate the variability in cash outflows
    that result from changes in interest rates by maintaining a balanced mix
    of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt obligations. In order to achieve these
    objectives, we have entered into interest rate swaps. Interest rate swaps
    involve the periodic exchange of payments without the exchange of underlying
    principal or notional amounts. Net payments are recognized as an adjustment
    to interest expense.

In
November 2009, the Company entered into various fixed-to-variable interest rate
swap agreements that effectively convert a portion of our 4.75% Senior Notes
due 2020 to variable-interest rate debt based on LIBOR plus 1.33%. At December
31, 2009, the interest rate swap agreements which expire in January 2020, have
a notional amount totaling $350 million. The fixed-to-variable interest rate
swap agreements are accounted for as fair value hedges of a portion of our
outstanding 4.75% Senior Notes due 2020. Based on our net exposure to interest
rate changes, a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on our variable rate
indebtedness (representing 3 basis points) would impact annual interest expense
by $0.3 million, assuming no changes to the debt outstanding at December 31,
2009.

The
fair value of the fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements at December
31, 2009 was a liability of $14.4 million. A hypothetical 10% decrease in
interest rates (representing approximately 40 basis points) would potentially
decrease the fair value of the liability of these instruments by approximately
$11 million. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would potentially
increase the fair value of the liability of these instruments by approximately
$11 million.

For
    details regarding our outstanding debt and our financial instruments, see
    Notes 10 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Risk
Associated with Investment Portfolio

Our
investment portfolio includes equity investments in publicly held companies
that are classified as available-for-sale securities and other strategic equity
holdings in privately held companies. These securities are exposed to price
fluctuations and are generally concentrated in the life sciences industry. The
carrying values of our available-for-sale equity securities and privately held
securities were $8 million at December 31, 2009.

We
regularly evaluate the fair value measurements of our equity investments to
determine if losses in value are other than temporary and if an impairment loss
has been incurred. The evaluation considers if the security has the ability to
recover and, if so, the estimated recovery period. Other factors that are
considered in this evaluation include the amount of the other-than-temporary
decline and its duration, the issuer’s financial condition and short-term
prospects and whether the market decline was caused by overall economic
conditions or conditions specific to the individual security.

We
do not hedge our equity price risk. The impact of an adverse movement in equity
prices on our holdings in privately held companies cannot be easily quantified,
as our ability to realize returns on investments depends on, among other
things, the enterprises’ ability to raise additional capital or derive cash
inflows from continuing operations or


through liquidity events such as initial
public offerings, mergers or private sales.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents at December 31, 2009 totaled $534 million, compared to
$254 million at December 31, 2008. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid short-term investments, including time deposits with highly-rated banks,
and various insured money market funds, including those that invest in U.S.
Treasury securities. Cash flows from operating activities in 2009 of $1.0
billion were used to fund investing and financing activities of $196 million
and $521 million, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008
totaled $254 million, compared to $168 million at December 31, 2007. Cash flows
from operating activities in 2008 of $1.1 billion were used to fund investing
and financing activities of $199 million and $778 million, respectively.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net
cash provided by operating activities for 2009 was $1.0 billion compared to
$1.1 billion in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash flows from
operating activities includes second quarter 2009 payments totaling $308
million associated with the final settlement agreement related to the federal
government’s investigation related to NID (see Note 16 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements). After giving consideration to the settlement payments,
underlying cash flows from operating activities exceeded the prior year level,
primarily driven by higher earnings in the current year. Days sales
outstanding, a measure of billing and collection efficiency, were 43 days at
December 31, 2009 compared to 44 days at December 31, 2008.

Net
cash provided by operating activities for 2008 was $1.1 billion compared to
$927 million in 2007. This increase was primarily due to higher earnings during
2008. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31,
2007 was reduced by $57 million of fees and other expenses paid in connection
with the acquisition of AmeriPath.

Cash
Flows from Investing Activities

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2009 was $196 million, consisting
principally of capital expenditures of $167 million. In addition, we completed
several small acquisitions for a total of $39 million, which was partially
offset by $21 million related to the receipt of a payment from an escrow fund
established at the time of an acquisition in 2007.

Net cash used in investing
activities in 2008 was $199 million, consisting principally of capital
expenditures of $213 million, partially offset by $23 million related to the
receipt of a payment from an escrow fund established at the time of an
acquisition in 2007 and $6 million of proceeds from the sale of an investment
in the first quarter of 2008.

Cash
Flows from Financing Activities

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2009 was $521 million, consisting
primarily of purchases of treasury stock totaling $500 million, dividend
payments of $75 million and $10.5 million in payments to settle certain
forward-starting interest rate swap agreements, partially offset by $93 million
in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including related tax benefits,
and net increases in debt of $27 million. The $500 million in treasury stock
purchases represents 10 million of our common shares purchased at an average
price of $49.83 per share. The net increase in debt consists of $1.25 billion
of borrowings and $1.22 billion of repayments.

During
2009, borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility totaled $510
million and were used primarily to fund the NID settlement payments totaling
$308 million and $150 million to fund the retirement of debt in connection with
our debt tender offer in June 2009. In addition, we completed a $750 million
senior notes offering in November 2009 (the “2009 Senior Notes”). We issued the
notes principally to repay certain debt maturing through 2011 and refinance it
over a longer term. The 2009 Senior Notes were sold in two tranches: (a) $500
million of 4.75% senior notes due 2020 issued at a discount of $7.5 million;
and $250 million of 5.75% senior notes due 2040, issued at a discount of $6.9
million. We used the net proceeds from the 2009 Senior Notes offering to fund
the retirement of $150 million of debt in connection with our debt tender offer
in November 2009, and the repayment of $100 million outstanding under our
secured receivables credit facility and $350 million outstanding under our term
loan due May 2012. The 2009 Senior Notes are further described in Note 10 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt
repayments of $1.22 billion primarily consisted of $510 million on our secured
receivables credit facility, $350 million on our term loan due May 2012 and
$350 million of repayments in connection with our debt tender offers in June
2009 and November 2009.


In
connection with our June 2009 debt tender offer, we repaid $174 million of
aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 5.125% senior notes due 2010
and $26 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 7.50%
senior notes due 2011. Total cash payments of $206 million, including
approximately $6 million related to premiums and other costs incurred to
purchase the notes, were funded with cash on-hand and $150 million of
borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility.

In
connection with our November 2009 debt tender offer, we repaid $61 million of
aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 5.125% senior notes due 2010
and $89 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 7.50%
senior notes due 2011. Total cash payments of $162 million, including
approximately $12 million related to premiums and other costs incurred to
purchase the notes, were funded with a portion of the net proceeds from our
2009 Senior Notes offering.

In
December 2009, we amended our existing receivables securitization facility and
increased it from $500 million to $525 million. The secured receivables credit
facility continues to be supported by back-up facilities provided on a
committed basis by two banks: (a) $275 million, which matures on December 10,
2010 and (b) $250 million, which also matures on December 10, 2010. Interest on
the secured receivables credit facility is based on rates that are intended to
approximate commercial paper rates for highly-rated issuers. There were no
borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2009.

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2008 was $778 million, consisting
primarily of net reductions of debt of $459 million. Debt repayments of $482
million, consisting primarily of the repayment of $120 million on our secured
receivables credit facility, $60 million on our term loan due December 31, 2008
and $293 million on our term loan due May 2012, were partially offset by
borrowings of $20 million under our secured receivables credit facility.

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2008 also included purchases of treasury
stock totaling $254 million and dividend payments of $78 million. The $254
million of treasury stock purchases represents 5.5 million shares of our common
stock purchased at an average price of $46.09 per share. These amounts were partially
offset by $33 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including
related tax benefits.

Dividend
Program

During
each of the quarters of 2009 and 2008, our Board of Directors declared a
quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share. We expect to fund future
dividend payments with cash flows from operations, and do not expect the
dividend to have a material impact on our ability to finance future growth.

Share
Repurchase Plan

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased 10 million shares of our
common stock at an average price of $49.83 per share for $500 million,
including 4.5 million shares repurchased from SB Holdings Capital Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc., at an average price of $44.33
per share for $200 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we
repurchased 5.5 million shares of our common stock at an average price of
$46.09 per share for $254 million. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
the Company reissued 3.0 million shares and 1.5 million shares, respectively,
for employee benefit plans. Since the inception of our share repurchase program
in May 2003, we have repurchased approximately 59.7 million shares of our
common stock at an average price of $46.17 for $2.8 billion under our share
repurchase program. At December 31, 2009, existing share repurchase
authorizations were fully utilized.

In
January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized $750 million of additional
share repurchases. The share repurchase authorization has no set expiration or
termination date.

Also,
in January 2010, we executed an accelerated share repurchase transaction with a
bank to acquire approximately 4.5 million shares of our outstanding common
stock, at an initial purchase price of $56.05 per share, for $250 million. The
purchase price for these shares is subject to an adjustment based on the volume
weighted average price of our common stock during a period following the
execution of the agreement.


Contractual
Obligations and Commitments

The
following table summarizes certain of our contractual obligations as of
December 31, 2009.

Interest
payments on our long-term debt have been calculated after giving effect to our
interest rate swap agreements, using the interest rates as of December 31, 2009
applied to the December 31, 2009 balances, which are assumed to remain
outstanding through their maturity dates.

A
full description of the terms of our indebtedness and related debt service
requirements and our future payments under certain of our contractual
obligations is contained in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A
full discussion and analysis regarding our minimum rental commitments under
noncancelable operating leases and noncancelable commitments to purchase
product or services at December 31, 2009 is contained in Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

As
of December 31, 2009, our total liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits were
approximately $126 million, which were excluded from the table above. We
believe it is reasonably possible that our liabilities for unrecognized tax
benefits may decrease by $25 million within the next twelve months, primarily
as a result of the expiration of statues of limitations, settlements and/or the
conclusion of tax examinations on certain tax positions. For the remainder, we
cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of the future payments
of these liabilities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information regarding our contingent tax liability reserves.

Our
credit agreements and our term loan due May 2012 contain various covenants and
conditions, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, that could
impact our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness. As of
December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the various financial covenants
included in our credit agreements and we do not expect these covenants to
adversely impact our ability to execute our growth strategy or conduct normal
business operations.

Unconsolidated
Joint Ventures

We
have investments in unconsolidated joint ventures in Phoenix, Arizona;
Indianapolis, Indiana; and Dayton, Ohio, which are accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. We believe that our transactions with our joint
ventures are conducted at arm’s length, reflecting current market conditions
and pricing. Total net revenues of our unconsolidated joint ventures equal less
than 6% of our consolidated net revenues. Total assets associated with our
unconsolidated joint ventures are less than 2% of our consolidated total
assets. We have no material unconditional obligations or guarantees to, or in
support of, our unconsolidated joint ventures and their operations.

Requirements
and Capital Resources

We
estimate that we will invest approximately $200 million during 2010 for capital
expenditures to support and expand our existing operations, principally related
to investments in information technology, equipment, and facility upgrades.

As
of December 31, 2009, $1.3 billion of borrowing capacity was available under
our existing credit facilities, consisting of $525 million available under our
secured receivables credit facility and $750 million available under our senior
unsecured revolving credit facility.

We
believe the banks participating in our various credit facilities are
predominantly highly-rated banks, and that the entire amounts under the credit
facilities are currently available to us. Should one or several banks no longer
participate in either of our credit facilities, we would not expect it to
impact our ability to fund operations.

We
believe that cash and cash equivalents on-hand and cash from operations, together
with our borrowing capacity under our credit facilities, will provide
sufficient financial flexibility to meet seasonal working capital


requirements
and to fund capital expenditures, debt service requirements, cash dividends on
common shares, share repurchases and additional growth opportunities for the
foreseeable future. We believe that our credit profile should provide us with
access to additional financing, if necessary, to fund growth opportunities that
cannot be funded from existing sources.

Outlook

As
discussed in the Overview, despite the continued consolidation among healthcare
insurers, and their continued efforts to reduce reimbursement for providers of
diagnostic testing, and the general economic conditions, we believe that the
underlying fundamentals of the diagnostic testing industry will continue to
improve and that over the long-term the industry will continue to grow. As the
world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, we
believe we are well positioned to benefit from the growth expected in our
industry.

We
believe our focus on delivering a superior patient experience and Six Sigma
quality as well as the investments we are continuing to make in our
distribution network, our industry leading test menu and our information
technology solutions will further differentiate us over the long-term and
strengthen our industry leadership position. In addition, we plan to leverage
our knowledge and expertise in diagnostic testing to further expand into
international markets and point-of-care testing.

Our
strong cash generation, balance sheet and credit profile position us well to
take advantage of these growth opportunities.

Inflation

We
believe that inflation generally does not have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition because the majority of our
contracts are short term.

Impact of New Accounting Standards

In
June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a statement
to amend a FASB interpretation on variable interest entities. In October 2009,
the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related to the
accounting for revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables, and an
amendment to the accounting standards related to certain revenue arrangements
that include software elements. In January 2010, the FASB issued an amendment
to the accounting standards related to the disclosures about an entity’s use of
fair value measurements. The impact of these accounting standards is discussed
in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


R

EPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The
management of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management
assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on criteria for effective internal
control over financial reporting described in

“Internal
Control – Integrated Framework”

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment,
management has determined that the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009 is effective.

The
Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures
that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance
with authorization of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on
the consolidated financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
financial statements included in this annual report, audited the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and issued
their audit report expressing an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting.


Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

To the Board
of Directors and Stockholders

of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is
responsible for these financial statements and the financial statement
schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

F-1

Q

UEST DIAGNOSTICS
INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008

(in thousands, except per share data)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-2

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 AND 2007

(in thousands, except per share data)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-3

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 AND 2007

(in thousands)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-4

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 AND 2007

(in thousands)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-5

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

1.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries (“Quest Diagnostics” or the
“Company”) is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make better healthcare decisions. Quest Diagnostics offers patients and
physicians the broadest access to diagnostic laboratory services through the
Company’s nationwide network of laboratories and patient service centers. The
Company provides interpretive consultation through the largest medical and
scientific staff in the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s
primarily located in the United States. Quest Diagnostics is the leading
provider of clinical testing, including gene-based testing and other esoteric
testing, anatomic pathology services and testing for drugs-of-abuse, and the
leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry.
The Company is also a leading provider of testing for clinical trials. The
Company’s diagnostics products business manufactures and markets diagnostic
test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. Quest Diagnostics empowers
healthcare organizations and clinicians with state-of-the-art information
technology solutions that can improve patient care and medical practice.

During
2009, Quest Diagnostics processed approximately 148 million requisitions
through its extensive network of laboratories in virtually every major
metropolitan area throughout the United States.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles
of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities
controlled by the Company through its direct or indirect ownership of a
majority voting interest and the accounts of any variable interest entities
where the Company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the
variable interest entity’s activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the
entity’s residual returns or both. The Company’s relationships with variable
interest entities were not material at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.
Investments in entities which the Company does not control, but in which it has
a substantial ownership interest (generally between 20% and 49%) and can
exercise significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s investments in
affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting totaled $46.3
million and $38.4 million, respectively. The Company’s share of equity earnings
from investments in affiliates, accounted for under the equity method, totaled
$33.2 million, $29.7 million and $27.0 million, respectively, for 2009, 2008
and 2007. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated
in consolidation.

Basis
of Presentation

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard issued by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that establishes accounting and
reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary in
consolidated financial statements. In accordance with this new standard, the
Company has provided a new presentation on the face of the consolidated
financial statements to separately classify noncontrolling interests within the
equity section of the consolidated balance sheets and to separately report the
amounts attributable to controlling and noncontrolling interests in the
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income and changes in
equity for all periods presented. The adoption of this standard did not impact
earnings per share attributable to Quest Diagnostics’ common stockholders.

In June
2009, the FASB issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the
“ASC”). The ASC has become the single source of non-governmental accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) recognized by the
FASB in the preparation of financial statements. The ASC does not supersede the
rules or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”),
therefore, the rules and interpretive releases of the SEC continue to be
additional sources of GAAP for the Company. The Company adopted the ASC as of
July 1, 2009. The ASC does not change GAAP and did not have an effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

During
the third quarter of 2006, the Company completed its wind-down of NID, a test
kit manufacturing subsidiary, and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. The accompanying consolidated statements of operations
and related disclosures have been prepared to report the results of NID as
discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 16 for a further
discussion of discontinued operations.

F-6

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Use
of Estimates

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue
Recognition

The
Company primarily recognizes revenue for services rendered upon completion of
the testing process. Billings for services reimbursed by third-party payers,
including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for
differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts from such payers.
Adjustments to the allowances, based on actual receipts from the third-party
payers, are recorded upon settlement. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately
18%, 18% and 17%, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net revenues were
generated by Medicare and Medicaid programs. Under capitated arrangements with
healthcare insurers, the Company recognizes revenue based on a predetermined
monthly reimbursement rate for each member of an insurer’s health plan
regardless of the number or cost of services provided by the Company. In 2009,
2008 and 2007, approximately 4%, 5%, and 5%, respectively, of the Company’s
consolidated net revenues were generated under capitated arrangements.

Taxes
on Income

The
Company uses the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using tax rates in effect
for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation
allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period when the change is enacted.

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted an
accounting standard which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes recognized in financial statements. This standard provides guidance on
recognizing, measuring, presenting and disclosing in the financial statements
uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on a tax
return. See Note 5 for further information related to the Company’s accounting
for uncertainty in income taxes.

Earnings
Per Share

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard related to
determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included
in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class
method. Pursuant to this standard, the Company’s unvested restricted common
stock and unvested restricted stock units that contain non-forfeitable rights
to dividends are participating securities and, therefore, are included in the
earnings allocation in computing earnings per share using the two-class method
for all periods presented.

Basic
earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net income, adjusted for
earnings allocated to participating securities, by the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated
by dividing net income, adjusted for earnings allocated to participating
securities, by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding after
giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the
period. Potentially dilutive common shares include the dilutive effect of
outstanding stock options and performance share units granted under the
Company’s Amended and Restated Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan and its
Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Long-Term Incentive Plan.

F-7

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share was as follows (in
thousands, except per share data):

The
following securities were not included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation due to their antidilutive effect (in thousands):




Stock options and performance share units

3,559

3,631

3,706

Stock-Based
Compensation

The
Company records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of the
estimated impact of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes
stock-based compensation cost only
for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over their
requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual
grants. The cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a change in the
estimated forfeiture rate is recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the
period of the revision. The terms of the Company’s performance share unit grants
allow the recipients of such awards to earn a variable number of shares based
on the achievement of the performance goals specified in the awards. For
performance share unit awards granted prior to 2008, the actual amount of any
stock award earned is based on the Company’s earnings per share growth as
measured in accordance with its Amended and Restated Employee Long-Term
Incentive Plan (“ELTIP”) for the performance period compared to that of a peer
group of companies. Beginning with performance share unit awards granted in
2008, the performance measure for these awards will be based on the compound
annual growth rate of the Company’s earnings per share from continuing

F-8

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

operations
over a three year period. Stock-based compensation expense associated with
performance share units is recognized based on management’s best estimates of
the achievement of the performance goals specified in such awards and the
resulting number of shares that will be earned. The cumulative effect on
current and prior periods of a change in the estimated number of performance
share units expected to be earned is recognized as compensation cost in
earnings in the period of the revision. The Company recognizes stock-based
compensation expense related to the Company’s Amended Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (“ESPP”) based on the 15% discount at purchase. See Note 13 for a further
discussion of stock-based compensation.

Fair
Value Measurements

On
January 1, 2008, the Company adopted a new standard related to the accounting
for financial assets and financial liabilities and items that are recognized or
disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, at
least annually. This standard provides a single definition of fair value and a
common framework for measuring fair value as well as new disclosure
requirements for fair value measurements used in financial statements. Fair
value measurements are based upon the exit price that would be received to sell
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants exclusive of any transaction costs, and are determined by
either the principal market or the most advantageous market. The principal
market is the market with the greatest level of activity and volume for the
asset or liability. Absent a principal market to measure fair value, the
Company would use the most advantageous market, which is the market that the
Company would receive the highest selling price for the asset or pay the lowest
price to settle the liability, after considering transaction costs. However,
when using the most advantageous market, transaction costs are only considered
to determine which market is the most advantageous and these costs are then
excluded when applying a fair value measurement. The adoption of this standard
did not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted an accounting standard for applying fair
value measurements to certain assets, liabilities and transactions that are
periodically measured at fair value. The adoption did not have a material
effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

In
August 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to the measurement of liabilities that are routinely recognized or disclosed at
fair value. This standard clarifies how a company should measure the fair value
of liabilities, and that restrictions preventing the transfer of a liability should
not be considered as a factor in the measurement of liabilities within the
scope of this standard. This standard became effective for the Company on
October 1, 2009. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact
on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

The
fair value accounting standard creates a three-level hierarchy to prioritize
the inputs used in the valuation techniques to derive fair values. The basis
for fair value measurements for each level within the hierarchy is described
below with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest.

Foreign
Currency

The
Company predominately uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. The
functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries is the applicable
local currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollars are
translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates as of the end of the reporting
period. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates
prevailing during the year. The translation adjustments are recorded as a
component of “accumulated other comprehensive loss” within stockholders’
equity. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are included within
“other operating (income) expense, net” in the
consolidated statements of

F-9

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
indicated)

operations.
Transaction gains and losses have not been material. For a discussion of the
Company’s use of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure for
changes in foreign currency rates refer to the caption entitled “

Derivative
Financial Instruments – Foreign Currency Risk

” below.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents include all highly-liquid investments with original
maturities, at the time acquired by the Company, of three months or less.

Concentration
of Credit Risk

Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
risk are principally cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
accounts receivable. The Company’s policy is to place its cash, cash
equivalents and short-term investments in highly-rated financial instruments
and institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts
receivable is mitigated by the diversity of the Company’s payers and their
dispersion across many different geographic regions, and is limited to certain
payers who are large buyers of the Company’s services. To reduce risk, the
Company routinely assesses the financial strength of these payers and,
consequently, believes that its accounts receivable credit risk exposure, with
respect to these payers, is limited. While the Company has receivables due from
federal and state governmental agencies, the Company does not believe that such
receivables represent a credit risk since the related healthcare programs are
funded by federal and state governments, and payment is primarily dependent on
submitting appropriate documentation. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
receivables due from government payers under the Medicare and Medicaid programs
represent approximately 12% and 13%, respectively, of the Company’s
consolidated net accounts receivable.

Accounts
Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Accounts
receivable are reported at realizable value, net of allowances for doubtful
accounts, which is estimated and recorded in the period the related revenue is
recorded. The Company has a standardized approach to estimate and review the collectibility of
its receivables based on a number of factors, including the period they have
been outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement experience is
an integral part of the estimation process related to allowances for doubtful
accounts. In addition, the Company regularly assesses the state of its billing
operations in order to identify issues which may impact the collectibility of
these receivables or reserve estimates. Revisions to the allowances for doubtful
accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense within
selling, general and administrative expenses. Receivables deemed to be
uncollectible are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts at the
time such receivables are written-off. Recoveries of receivables previously
written-off are recorded as credits to the allowance for doubtful accounts.

Inventories

Inventories,
which consist principally of testing supplies and reagents, are valued at the
lower of cost (first in, first out method) or market.

Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property,
plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Major renewals and improvements are
capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Costs
incurred for computer software developed or obtained for internal use are
capitalized for application development activities and expensed as incurred for
preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities. Capitalized
costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in
developing or obtaining internal-use software, payroll and payroll-related
costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to the
internal-use software project, and interest costs incurred, when material,
while developing internal-use software. Capitalization of such costs ceases
when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose.
Certain costs, such as maintenance and training, are expensed as incurred. The
Company capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active construction
period of major capital projects. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of
the underlying assets and is amortized over the expected useful lives of the
assets. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method
over expected useful asset lives as follows: buildings and improvements,
ranging from ten to thirty years; laboratory equipment and furniture and
fixtures, ranging from three to seven years; leasehold improvements, the lesser
of the useful life of the improvement or the

F-10

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
indicated)

remaining life
of the building or lease, as applicable; and computer software developed or
obtained for internal use, ranging from three to seven years.

Goodwill

Goodwill
arising from acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 represents the
cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of assets acquired,
including separately recognized intangible assets, less the fair value of
liabilities assumed in a business combination. On January 1, 2009, the Company
adopted a new accounting standard related to business combinations using the
acquisition method. Goodwill arising from acquisitions completed on or after
January 1, 2009 represents the excess of the fair value of the acquiree
(including the fair value of non-controlling interests) over the recognized
bases of the net identifiable assets acquired. The Company uses a
nonamortization approach to account for goodwill arising from acquisitions.
Under a nonamortization approach, goodwill is not amortized, but instead is
periodically reviewed for impairment. See

“New Accounting Standards”

below for a
further discussion of the accounting for business combinations.

Intangible
Assets

Intangible
assets are recognized at fair value, as an asset apart from goodwill if the
asset arises from contractual or other legal rights, or if it is separable.
Intangible assets, principally representing the cost of customer relationships,
customer lists and non-competition agreements acquired, are capitalized and
amortized on the straight-line method over their expected useful life, which
generally ranges from five to twenty years. Intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives, consisting principally of acquired tradenames, are not amortized,
but instead are periodically reviewed for impairment.

Recoverability
and Impairment of Goodwill

The
Company reviews goodwill and certain intangible assets periodically for
impairment and an impairment charge is recorded in the periods in which the
recorded carrying value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more than its
estimated fair value. The goodwill impairment test is performed annually, or
more frequently, in the case of other events that indicate a potential
impairment. The annual impairment test of goodwill was performed at the end of
each of the Company’s fiscal years on December 31 and indicated that there was
no impairment of goodwill as of December 31, 2009 or 2008.

The
Company evaluates the recoverability and measures the potential impairment of
its goodwill at least annually. The annual impairment test is a two-step
process that begins with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting
unit. The first step screens for potential impairment and the second step
measures the amount of the impairment, if any. Management’s estimate of fair
value considers publicly available information regarding the market
capitalization of the Company as well as (i) the financial projections and
future prospects of the Company’s business, including its growth opportunities
and likely operational improvements, and (ii) comparable sales prices, if
available. As part of the first step to assess potential impairment, management
compares the estimate of fair value for the reporting unit to the book value of
the reporting unit. If the book value is greater than the estimate of fair
value, the Company would then proceed to the second step to measure the
impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value of goodwill
with its carrying value. The implied fair value is determined by allocating the
fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that
unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and
the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the
reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the
amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of
goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill is greater
than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will be recognized in the
amount of the excess. Management believes its estimation methods are reasonable
and reflective of common valuation practices.

On
a quarterly basis, management performs a review of the Company’s business to
determine if events or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have
a material adverse effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If
such events or changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, the
Company would perform an impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the
quarter, consistent with the annual impairment test, and record any noted
impairment loss.

F-11

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
indicated)

Recoverability
and Impairment of Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets

The
Company reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets when events or
changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value of the
asset may not be recoverable. Evaluation of possible impairment is based on the
Company’s ability to recover the asset from the expected future pre-tax cash
flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations. If
the expected undiscounted pre-tax cash flows are less than the carrying amount
of such asset, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the
estimated fair value and carrying amount of the asset.

Investments

The
Company accounts for investments in trading and available-for-sale equity
securities, which are included in “other assets” in the consolidated balance
sheets at fair value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses for trading
securities are recorded currently in earnings as a component of non-operating
expenses within “other expense, net” in the consolidated statements of
operations. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, for available-for-sale
securities are recorded as a component of “accumulated other comprehensive
loss” within stockholders’ equity. Recognized gains and losses for
available-for-sale securities are recorded in “other expense, net” in the
consolidated statements of operations. Gains and losses on securities sold are
based on the average cost method.

The
Company periodically reviews its investments to determine whether a decline in
fair value below the cost basis is other than temporary. The primary factors
considered in the determination are: the length of time that the fair value of
the investment is below carrying value; the financial condition, operating
performance and near term prospects of the investee; and the Company’s intent
and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for
a recovery in fair value. If the decline in fair value is deemed to be other
than temporary, the cost basis of the security is written down to fair value.

Investments
at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:

Investments
in available-for-sale equity securities consist of equity securities in public
corporations. Investments in trading equity securities represent
participant-directed investments of deferred employee compensation and related
Company matching contributions held in a trust pursuant to the Company’s
supplemental deferred compensation plan (see Note 13). Other investments do not
have readily determinable fair values and consist of investments in preferred
and common shares of privately held companies and are accounted for under the
cost method.

As
of December 31, 2009, the Company had no gross unrealized losses from
available-for-sale equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had
gross unrealized losses from available-for-sale equity securities of $0.6 million.
For the year ended December 31, 2009, “other expense, net,” within the
consolidated statements of operations, includes $7.8 million of charges
principally associated with the write-down of an investment accounted for under
the cost method. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, “other
expense, net,” includes $8.9 million and $4.0 million, respectively, of charges
associated with the write-down of available-for-sale equity securities. For the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, gains (losses) from trading
equity securities totaled $6.0 million, $(9.9) million and $2.7 million,
respectively, and are included in “other expense, net.”

Derivative
Financial Instruments

The
Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to market
risks for changes in interest rates and foreign currency. This strategy
includes the use of interest rate swap agreements, forward starting interest
rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward contracts to manage its
exposure to movements in interest and currency rates. The Company has
established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval,

F-12

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
indicated)

reporting and
monitoring of derivative financial instrument activities. These policies
prohibit holding or issuing derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments that
contain credit-risk-related contingent features or requirements to post
collateral.

Interest
Rate Risk

The
Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents and
its debt obligations. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents may
fluctuate as interest rates change; however, due to their relatively short
maturities, the Company does not hedge these assets and the impact of interest
rate risk is not material. The Company’s debt obligations consist of fixed-rate
and variable-rate debt instruments. The Company’s objective is to mitigate the
variability in cash outflows that result from changes in interest rates by
maintaining a balanced mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt obligations. In
order to achieve these objectives, the Company has entered into interest rate
swaps. Interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments without
the exchange of underlying principal or notional amounts. Net payments are recognized
as an adjustment to interest expense.

The
Company formally documents its hedge relationships, including identifying the
hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management
objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transaction. On the date
the derivative is entered into, the Company designates the type of derivative
as a fair value hedge or cash flow hedge, and accounts for the derivative in
accordance with its designation as prescribed by the FASB standards on accounting
for derivative instruments and hedging activities. At inception and at least
quarterly thereafter, the Company formally assesses whether the derivatives
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting
changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. All components of
each derivative financial instrument’s gain or loss are included in the
assessment of hedge effectiveness.

The
Company accounts for its derivatives as either an asset or liability measured
at its fair value. The fair value is based upon quoted market prices obtained
from third-party financial institutions. For a derivative instrument that has been formally designated as a fair
value hedge, fair value gains or losses on the derivative instrument are
reported in earnings, together with offsetting fair value gains or losses on
the hedged item that are attributable to the risk being hedged. For
derivatives that have been formally designated as a cash flow hedge, the
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivatives is recorded
in “accumulated other comprehensive loss” and the ineffective portion is
recorded in earnings. Upon maturity or early termination of an effective
interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge, unrealized gains or losses
are deferred in stockholders’ equity, as a component of “accumulated other
comprehensive loss,” and are amortized as an adjustment to interest expense
over the period during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects
earnings. If it is determined that a derivative ceases to be a highly effective
hedge, the Company discontinues hedge accounting and any deferred gains or
losses related to a discontinued cash flow hedge shall continue to be reported
in “accumulated other comprehensive loss,” unless it is probable that the
forecasted transaction will not occur. If it is probable that the forecasted
transaction will not occur by the originally specified time period, the Company
discontinues hedge accounting, and any deferred gains or losses reported in
“accumulated other comprehensive loss” are classified into earnings
immediately.

Foreign
Currency Risk

The
Company is exposed to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates
primarily under certain inter-company receivables and payables. Foreign
exchange forward contracts are used to mitigate the exposure of the eventual
net cash inflows or outflows resulting from these intercompany transactions.
The objective is to hedge a portion of the forecasted foreign currency risk
over a rolling 12-month time horizon to mitigate the eventual impacts of
changes in foreign exchange rates on the cash flows of the intercompany
transactions. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of foreign
currency forward contracts in U.S. dollars was $50.5 million and principally
consist of contracts in Swedish krona and British pounds. Notional amounts represent the face amount
of contractual arrangements and the basis on which currencies are exchanged and
are not a measure of market or credit risk exposure. The Company does not
designate these derivative instruments as hedges under current accounting
standards unless the benefits of doing so are material. The Company’s foreign
exchange exposure is not material to the Company’s consolidated financial
condition or results of operations. The Company does not hedge its net
investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries because it views those investments as
long-term in nature.

F-13

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
indicated)

Comprehensive
Income (Loss)

Comprehensive
income (loss) encompasses all changes in stockholders’ equity (except those
arising from transactions with stockholders) and includes net income, net
unrealized capital gains or losses on available-for-sale securities, foreign
currency translation adjustments and deferred gains and losses related to
certain derivative financial instruments (see Note 12). Total comprehensive income,
including the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests, was $813 million, $520 million and $392 million
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Subsequent
Events

The management
of the Company has evaluated the period after the balance sheet date up through
February 17, 2010, which is the date that the consolidated financial statements
were issued, and determined that there were no subsequent events or
transactions that required recognition in the consolidated financial
statements. Refer to Note 18 for a discussion of subsequent events that are
only required to be disclosed.

New
Accounting Standards

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard issued by the
FASB related to accounting for business combinations using the acquisition
method of accounting (previously referred to as the purchase method). Among the
significant changes, this standard requires a redefining of the measurement
date of a business combination, expensing direct transaction costs as incurred,
capitalizing in-process research and development costs as an intangible asset
and recording a liability for contingent consideration at the measurement date
with subsequent re-measurements recorded in the results of operations. This standard also requires costs for
business restructuring and exit activities related to the acquired company to
be included in the post-combination financial results of operations and also
provides new guidance for the recognition and measurement of contingent assets
and liabilities in a business combination. In addition, this standard requires
several new disclosures, including the reasons for the business combination, the
factors that contribute to the recognition of goodwill, the amount of
acquisition related third-party expenses incurred, the nature and amount of
contingent consideration, and a discussion of pre-existing relationships
between the parties. Transaction costs for potential business combinations that
had not closed by December 31, 2008 were written off on January 1, 2009 and
were not material.

The
application of this standard was not material for business combinations
completed in 2009, however, it is likely to have a significant impact on how
the Company allocates the purchase price of certain future business
combinations, including the recognition and measurement of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed and the expensing of direct transaction costs and costs to
integrate the acquired business.

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard issued by the
FASB that establishes accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling
interests in a subsidiary in consolidated financial statements, including
deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This
standard requires entities to record the acquisition of noncontrolling
interests in subsidiaries initially at fair value. In accordance with the
requirements of this standard, the Company has provided a new presentation on
the face of the consolidated financial statements to separately classify
noncontrolling interests within the equity section of the consolidated balance
sheets and to separately report the amounts attributable to controlling and
noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of operations,
comprehensive income and changes in equity for all periods presented. The
adoption of this standard did not impact earnings per share attributable to
Quest Diagnostics’ common stockholders. There were no changes in the Company’s
ownership interests in subsidiaries or deconsolidation of subsidiaries for the
year ended December 31, 2009.

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard issued by the
FASB related to the disclosure of derivative instruments and hedging
activities. This standard expanded the disclosure requirements about an
entity’s derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, including
qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives,
quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on
derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent
features in derivative instruments.

Effective
June 30, 2009, the Company adopted a newly issued accounting standard related
to accounting for and disclosure of subsequent events in its consolidated
financial statements. This standard provides the authoritative guidance for
subsequent events that was previously addressed only in United States auditing
standards. This standard

F-14

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
indicated)

establishes
general accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance
sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be
issued and requires the Company to disclose the date through which it has
evaluated subsequent events and whether that was the date the financial
statements were issued or available to be issued. This standard does not apply
to subsequent events or transactions that are within the scope of other
applicable GAAP that provide different guidance on the accounting treatment for
subsequent events or transactions. The adoption of this standard did not have a
material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In
June 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related to
the consolidation of variable interest entities (“VIE”). This standard provides
a new approach for determining which entity should consolidate a VIE, how and
when to reconsider the consolidation or deconsolidation of a VIE and requires
disclosures about an entity’s significant judgments and assumptions used in its
decision to consolidate or not consolidate a VIE. Under this standard, the new
consolidation model is a more qualitative assessment of power and economics
that considers which entity has the power to direct the activities that “most
significantly impact” the VIE’

s

economic
performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE. This standard is
effective for the Company as of January 1, 2010 and the Company does not expect
the impact of its adoption to be material to its consolidated financial
statements.

In
October 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to the accounting for revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables
including how the arrangement consideration is allocated among delivered and
undelivered items of the arrangement. Among the amendments, this standard
eliminates the use of the residual method for allocating arrangement
consideration and requires an entity to allocate the overall consideration to
each deliverable based on an estimated selling price of each individual
deliverable in the arrangement in the absence of having vendor-specific
objective evidence or other third party evidence of fair value of the
undelivered items. This standard also provides further guidance on how to
determine a separate unit of accounting in a multiple-deliverable revenue
arrangement and expands the disclosure requirements about the judgments made in
applying the estimated selling price method and how those judgments affect the
timing or amount of revenue recognition. This standard, for which the Company
is currently assessing the impact, will become effective for the Company on
January 1, 2011.

In
October 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This standard
clarifies the existing accounting guidance such that tangible products that contain
both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the
product’s essential functionality, shall be excluded from the scope of the
software revenue recognition accounting standards. Accordingly, sales of these
products may fall within the scope of other revenue recognition accounting
standards or may now be within the scope of this standard and may require an
allocation of the arrangement consideration for each element of the
arrangement. This standard, for which the Company is currently assessing the
impact, will become effective for the Company on January 1, 2011.

In
January 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to the disclosures about an entity’s use of fair value measurements. Among
these amendments, entities will be required to provide enhanced disclosures
about transfers into and out of the Level 1(fair value determined based on
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities) and Level
2 (fair value determined based on significant other observable inputs)
classifications, provide separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances
and settlements relating to the tabular reconciliation of beginning and ending
balances of the Level 3 (fair value determined based on significant
unobservable inputs) classification and provide greater disaggregation for each
class of assets and liabilities that use fair value measurements. Except for
the detailed Level 3 roll-forward disclosures, the new standard is effective for
the Company for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December
31, 2009. The requirement to provide detailed disclosures about the purchases,
sales, issuances and settlements in the roll-forward activity for Level 3 fair
value measurements is effective for the Company for interim and annual
reporting periods beginning after December 31, 2010. The Company does not
expect that the adoption of this new standard will have a material impact to
its consolidated financial statements.

F-15

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

3.

FAIR VALUE
 MEASUREMENTS

The
following tables provide summaries of the recognized assets and liabilities
that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

The
Company offers certain employees the opportunity to participate in a
supplemental deferred compensation plan. A participant’s deferrals, together
with Company matching credits, are invested in a variety of
participant-directed stock and bond mutual funds that are classified as trading
securities. Changes in the fair value of these securities are measured using
quoted prices in active markets based on the market price per unit multiplied
by the number of units held exclusive of any transaction costs. A corresponding
adjustment for changes in fair value of the trading securities is also
reflected in the changes in fair value of the deferred compensation obligation.
The deferred compensation liabilities are classified within Level 2 because
their inputs are derived principally from observable market data by correlation
to the trading securities.

F-16

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
Company offers certain employees the opportunity to participate in a
non-qualified deferred compensation program. A participant’s deferrals,
together with Company matching credits, are “invested” at the direction of the
employee in a hypothetical portfolio of investments which are tracked by an
administrator. The Company purchases life insurance policies, with the Company
named as beneficiary of the policies, for the purpose of funding the program’s
liability. Changes in the cash surrender value of the life insurance policies
are based upon earnings and changes in the value of the underlying investments.
Changes in the fair value of the deferred compensation obligation are derived
using quoted prices in active markets based on the market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units. The cash surrender value and the deferred
compensation obligations are classified within Level 2 because their inputs are
derived principally from observable market data by correlation to the
hypothetical investments.

The
fair value measurements of foreign currency forward contracts are obtained from
a third-party pricing service and are based on market prices in actual
transactions and other relevant information generated by market transactions
involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The fair value
measurements of the Company’s interest rate swaps are model-derived valuations
as of a given date in which all significant inputs are observable in active
markets including certain financial information and certain assumptions
regarding past, present and future market conditions. The Company does not
believe that the changes in the fair values of its foreign currency forward
contracts and interest rate swaps will materially differ from the amounts that
could be realized upon settlement or maturity or that the changes in fair value
will have a material effect on its results of operations, liquidity and capital
resources.

In
the second quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a charge of $7.0 million
associated with the write-down of an investment due to the uncertainty of
recoverability from an other-than-temporary impairment loss. A fair value
measurement, using significant unobservable inputs, has been applied to this
asset on a non-recurring basis.

The
carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts
payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value based on the short
maturities of these instruments. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value
of the Company’s debt was estimated at approximately $3.3 billion and $2.9
billion, respectively, using quoted market prices and yields for the same or
similar types of borrowings, taking into account the underlying terms of the
debt instruments. At December 31, 2009, the estimated fair value exceeded the
carrying value of the debt by $151 million. At December 31, 2008, the carrying
value exceeded the estimated fair value of the debt by $155 million.

On
January 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of POCT Holding AB
(“HemoCue”), a Sweden-based company specializing in point-of-care testing, in
an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $450 million, including $113
million of assumed debt. HemoCue is the leading international provider in
point-of-care testing for hemoglobin, with a growing share in professional
glucose and microalbumin testing.

In
conjunction with the acquisition of HemoCue, the Company repaid approximately
$113 million of debt, representing substantially all of HemoCue’s existing
outstanding debt as of January 31, 2007.

The
Company financed the aggregate purchase price of $344 million, which includes
transaction costs of approximately $7 million, of which $2 million was paid in
2006, and the repayment of substantially all of HemoCue’s outstanding debt with
the proceeds from a $450 million term loan and cash on-hand. On May 31, 2007,
the Company refinanced this term loan. In July 2009 and January 2008, the
Company received payments of approximately $21 million and $23 million,
respectively from an escrow fund established at the time of the acquisition
which reduced the aggregate purchase price to $300 million.

The
consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of HemoCue
subsequent to the closing of the acquisition.

F-17

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Acquisition
of AmeriPath

On
May 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of AmeriPath Group
Holdings, Inc. (“AmeriPath”), in an all-cash transaction valued at
approximately $2.0 billion, including approximately $780 million of assumed
debt and related accrued interest. AmeriPath is a leading provider of anatomic
pathology and esoteric testing, and generated annual revenues of approximately
$800 million.

Through
the acquisition, the Company acquired all of AmeriPath’s operations. The
Company financed the all-cash purchase price and related transaction costs,
together with the repayment of approximately $780 million of principal and
related accrued interest representing substantially all of AmeriPath’s debt, as
well as the refinancing of the term loan used to finance the acquisition of HemoCue,
with $1.6 billion of borrowings under a five-year term loan facility, $780
million of borrowings under a one-year bridge loan, and cash on-hand. In June
2007, the Company completed an $800 million senior notes offering. The net
proceeds of the senior notes offering were used to repay the $780 million
bridge loan. See Note 10 for further descriptions of the Company’s debt
outstanding.

The
consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of
AmeriPath subsequent to the closing of the acquisition.

During
2008, the Company decreased the amount of goodwill recorded in connection with
the acquisition of AmeriPath by approximately $45 million from $1.46 billion to
$1.42 billion, primarily as a result of changes in judgments regarding the
realization of certain pre-acquisition net operating loss carryforwards.

Pro
Forma Combined Financial Information

The
following unaudited pro forma combined financial information for the year ended
December 31, 2007 assumes that the AmeriPath acquisition and related financing,
including the Company’s June 2007 senior notes offering, were completed on
January 1, 2007. Supplemental pro forma combined financial information for
HemoCue has not been presented as this acquisition is not material to the
Company’s consolidated results of operations (in thousands, except per share
data).

The
unaudited pro forma combined financial information presented above reflects
certain reclassifications to the historical financial statements of AmeriPath
to conform the acquired company’s accounting policies and classification of
certain costs and expenses to that of Quest Diagnostics. These adjustments had
no impact on pro forma net income. Pro forma results for the year ended
December 31, 2007 exclude transaction related costs of $44 million, which were
incurred and expensed by AmeriPath in conjunction with its acquisition by Quest
Diagnostics.

F-18

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

5.

TAXES ON
 INCOME

The
Company’s pre-tax income (loss) from continuing operations consisted of $1.23
billion, $1.05 billion and $946 million from U.S. operations and $1.8 million,
$(1.2) million and $(7.1) million from foreign operations for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The
components of income tax expense (benefit) for 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as
follows:

A
reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the Company’s effective tax
rate for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
the deferred tax assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as
follows:

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, non-current deferred tax liabilities of $188
million and $190 million, respectively, are included in other long-term
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.

F-19

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

As
of December 31, 2009, the Company had estimated net operating loss
carryforwards for federal, state and foreign income tax purposes of $22
million, $609 million and $40 million, respectively, which expire at various
dates through 2029. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, deferred tax assets
associated with net operating loss carryforwards of $48 million and $66
million, respectively, have each been reduced by a valuation allowance of $12
million and $14 million, respectively.

Income
taxes payable including those classified in other long-term liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $100 million
and $88 million, respectively.

As of January 1, 2007, the Company adopted an
accounting standard related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes.
This standard clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in financial statements and provides guidance on the recognition and
measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken by an entity. The
adoption of this standard resulted in an increase to the Company’s contingent
tax liability reserves of $30 million with corresponding charges to retained
earnings, goodwill and additional paid-in capital. The contingent liabilities
for tax positions primarily relate to uncertainties associated with the
realization of tax benefits derived from certain state net operating loss
carryforwards, the allocation of income and expense among state jurisdictions,
the characterization and timing of certain tax deductions associated with
business combinations and employee compensation, income and expenses associated
with certain intercompany licensing arrangements, and the deductibility of
certain settlement payments.

The
recognition and measurement of certain tax benefits includes estimates and
judgment by management and inherently involves subjectivity. Changes in
estimates may create volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate in future
periods and may be due to settlements with various tax authorities (either
favorable or unfavorable), the expiration of the statute of limitations on some
tax positions and obtaining new information about particular tax positions that
may cause management to change its estimates.

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of and for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 consists of the following:

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2009, that, if
recognized, would affect the effective income tax rate from continuing
operations is $44 million. Based upon the expiration of statutes of
limitations, settlements and/or the conclusion of tax examinations, the Company
believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits for the items previously discussed may decrease by up to $25 million
within the next twelve months.

Accruals
for interest expense on contingent tax liabilities are classified in income tax
expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Accruals for penalties
have historically been immaterial. Interest expense included in income tax
expense in 2009 and 2007 was approximately $2 million and $6 million,
respectively. As a result of changes in judgment and favorable resolutions of
uncertain tax positions, $5 million of net interest was credited to income tax
expense in 2008. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has
approximately $7 million and $18 million, respectively, accrued, net of the
benefit of a federal and state deduction, for the payment of interest on
uncertain tax positions. The Company does not consider this interest part of
its fixed charges.

F-20

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

In
the regular course of business, various federal, state and local and foreign
tax authorities conduct examinations of the Company’s income tax filings and
the Company generally remains subject to examination until the statute of
limitations expires for the respective jurisdiction. The Internal Revenue
Service (“IRS”) has completed its examinations of the Company’s consolidated
federal income tax returns up through and including the 2005 tax year. In
addition, the IRS is currently conducting audits of the Company’s federal tax
returns for its 2006 and 2007 tax years, and certain state tax authorities are
conducting audits for various years between 2004 and 2008. In December 2008,
the Company reached a settlement agreement to pay a state tax authority approximately
$44 million in taxes, penalties and interest ($26 million, net of federal and
state benefits) for certain tax positions associated with intercompany
licensing arrangements. This settlement was paid in 2009. At this time, the
Company does not believe that there will be any material additional payments
beyond its recorded contingent liability reserves that may be required as a
result of these tax audits. As of December 31, 2009, a summary of the tax years
that remain subject to examination for the Company’s major jurisdictions are:

United States – federal

2006 – 2009

United States – various
 states

2005 – 2009

In
conjunction with its acquisition of SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories,
Inc. (“SBCL”), which operated the clinical testing business of SmithKline
Beecham plc (“SmithKline Beecham”), the Company entered into a tax
indemnification arrangement with SmithKline Beecham that provides the parties
with certain rights of indemnification against each other. During 2009, the
Company paid SmithKline Beecham approximately $10 million related to the
realization of certain pre-acquisition net loss carryforwards that were payable
to SmithKline Beecham pursuant to the tax indemnification arrangement.

6.

SUPPLEMENTAL
 CASH FLOW AND OTHER DATA

The
fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with
businesses acquired in 2009 and 2008 were not material.

F-21

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

7.

PROPERTY,
 PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and
 equipment at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:

Computer software developed
for internal use as of December 31, 2008 includes $76.6 million of assets,
which were previously classified as laboratory equipment, furniture and
fixtures.

8.

GOODWILL
 AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The changes in goodwill,
 net for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:

For
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, goodwill acquired was associated
with several immaterial acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2009,
other purchase accounting adjustments were primarily related to a payment
received from an escrow fund established at the time of the HemoCue acquisition
in 2007 (see Note 4 for further discussion). For the year ended December 31,
2008, other purchase accounting adjustments were primarily related to changes
in estimates regarding the realization of certain pre-acquisition net operating
loss carryforwards, the reduction in certain acquired pre-acquisition tax loss
contingencies, and a payment received from an escrow fund established at the
time of the HemoCue acquisition (see Note 4 for further discussion). Approximately
90% of the Company’s goodwill as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was associated
with its clinical testing business.

F-22

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Intangible
assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:

Amortization
expense related to intangible assets was $37.1 million, $37.3 million and $27.9
million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The
estimated amortization expense related to amortizable intangible assets for
each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter as of December 31, 2009
is as follows:

F-23

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

9.

ACCOUNTS
 PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts payable and
 accrued expenses at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:

10.

DEBT

Long-term debt at December
 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:

Early
Extinguishment of Debt

For
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded $20.4 million
and $0.9 million of pre-tax charges related to the early extinguishment of
debt, primarily related to the Company’s June 2009 and November 2009 debt
tender offers, the repayment of borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan due
2012 in 2009 and 2008, and the 2009 repayment of the remaining principal
outstanding under the Debentures due June 2034.

June
2009 Debt Tender Offer

On
May 19, 2009, the Company commenced a cash tender offer to purchase up to $200
million aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and
7.50% Senior Notes due 2011. On June 16, 2009, the Company finalized its cash
tender offer (the “June 2009 Debt Tender Offer”) by purchasing $174 million
aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes Due 2010 and $26 million
aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 that resulted in
pre-tax losses of $4.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The aggregate
pre-tax loss of $6.3 million includes the write-off of $0.5 million of deferred
financing fees and unamortized discounts and cash payments of $5.8 million
related to premiums and other costs to purchase the 5.125% Senior Notes due
2010 and the 7.5% Senior Notes due 2011 and is included in “other expense,
net.” The June 2009 Debt Tender Offer was financed with cash on-hand and $150
million of borrowings under the Secured Receivables Credit Facility discussed
below.

F-24

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

November
2009 Debt Tender Offer

In
connection with the 2009 Senior Notes offering which is discussed below, on
November 12, 2009, the Company commenced a cash tender offer to purchase any
and all of its outstanding 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010, and any and all of its
outstanding 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011. On November 20, 2009, the Company
finalized its cash tender offer (the “November 2009 Debt Tender Offer”) by
purchasing $61 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes
Due 2010 and $89 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Senior Notes
due 2011 that resulted in pre-tax losses of $2.6 million and $9.4 million,
respectively. The aggregate pre-tax loss of $12.1 million includes the
write-off of $0.3 million of deferred financing fees and unamortized discounts
and cash payments of $11.8 million related to premiums and other costs to
purchase the 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and the 7.5% Senior Notes due 2011
and is included in “other expense, net.” The November 2009 Debt Tender Offer
was financed with the net proceeds from the Company’s 2009 Senior Notes offering
which is discussed below.

Other
Extinguishments

During
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company repaid $350 million and
$293 million, respectively, of borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan due
2012 and recorded pre-tax losses of $0.7 million and $0.9 million,
respectively, related to the write-off of deferred financing fees.

In
connection with the Company’s repayment in 2009 of the remaining principal
outstanding under the Debentures due June 2034, the Company recorded a pre-tax
charge of $1.3 million, primarily related to the write-off of unamortized
discounts.

Senior Notes Offering

On
November 17, 2009, the Company completed a $750 million senior notes offering
(the “2009 Senior Notes”). The 2009 Senior Notes were sold in two tranches: (a)
$500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due January 30,
2020 (the “Senior Notes due 2020”), issued at a discount of $7.5 million and
(b) $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due January
30, 2040 (the “Senior Notes due 2040”), issued at a discount of $6.9 million.
After considering the discounts, the effective interest rates on the Senior
Notes due 2020 and the Senior Notes due 2040 are 4.9% and 5.9%, respectively.
The 2009 Senior Notes require semiannual interest payments, which commence on
July 30, 2010. The 2009 Senior Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company
and rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured obligations. The 2009
Senior Notes do not have a sinking fund requirement and are guaranteed by
certain of the Company’s domestic, wholly-owned subsidiaries (the “Subsidiary
Guarantors”).

The
Company incurred $6.9 million of costs associated with the 2009 Senior Notes,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

The
Company used $612 million of the net proceeds from the 2009 Senior Notes to
fund the retirement of $150 million of debt and cash payments of $11.8 million
related to premiums and other costs in connection with the Company’s November
2009 Debt Tender Offer, and the repayment of $100 million outstanding under the
Company’s Secured Receivables Credit Facility and $350 million outstanding
under the Company’s Term Loan due 2012. The Company intends to use the
remainder of the net proceeds from the 2009 Senior Notes offering for general
corporate purposes.

As
further discussed in Note 11, the Company hedged its interest rate exposure on
a portion of the Senior Notes due 2020. This hedge has been designated as a
fair value hedge and the carrying value of the Senior Notes due 2020 has been
decreased by the fair value of this hedge of $14.4 million in the consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2009.

Senior
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility

In
May 2007, the Company entered into a $750 million senior unsecured revolving
credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which replaced the Company’s $500
million senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The Credit Facility matures
in May 2012. Interest on the Credit Facility is based on certain published
rates plus an applicable margin that will vary over a range from 40 basis
points to 125 basis points based on changes in the Company’s public debt
ratings.

F-25

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

At the option
of the Company, it may elect to enter into LIBOR-based interest rate contracts
for periods up to six months. Interest on any outstanding amounts not covered
under LIBOR-based interest rate contracts is based on an alternate base rate,
which is calculated by reference to the prime rate or federal funds rate. As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans
under the Credit Facility was LIBOR (0.2% and 0.4% at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively) plus 0.40%. The Credit Facility is guaranteed by the
Subsidiary Guarantors. The Credit Facility contains various covenants, including
the maintenance of certain financial ratios, which could impact the Company’s
ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness. At December 31,
2009 and 2008, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility.

The
Company incurred $3.1 million of costs associated with the Credit Facility,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

Secured
Receivables Credit Facility

In
December 2008, the Company amended its existing receivables securitization
facility (the “Secured Receivables Credit Facility”) and increased it from $400
million to $500 million. The Secured Receivables Credit Facility was supported
by back-up facilities provided on a committed basis by two banks: (a) $225
million, which matured on December 11, 2009 and (b) $275 million, which also
matured on December 11, 2009.

In
April 2009, the Company borrowed $310 million under its Secured Receivables
Credit Facility primarily to fund second quarter payments totaling $308 million
in connection with the previously disclosed settlement of the federal
government investigation related to NID (see Note 16). In addition, the Company
borrowed $150 million to fund debt repayments in connection with the June 2009
Debt Tender Offer. During 2009, the Company repaid $510 million on its Secured
Receivables Credit Facility.

On
December 11, 2009, the Company amended the Secured Receivables Credit Facility
and increased it from $500 million to $525 million. The Secured Receivables
Credit Facility continues to be supported by back-up facilities provided on a
committed basis by two banks: (a) $275 million, which matures on December 10,
2010 and (b) $250 million, which also matures on December 10, 2010. Interest on
the Secured Receivables Credit Facility is based on rates that are intended to
approximate commercial paper rates for highly-rated issuers. At December 31,
2009 and 2008, the Company’s borrowing rate under the Secured Receivables
Credit Facility was 1.4% and 3.6%, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008,
there were no borrowings under the Secured Receivables Credit Facility.

Term
and Bridge Loan Credit Facilities

On
May 31, 2007, the Company entered into a five-year term loan facility (the
“Term Loan due 2012”), pursuant to which it borrowed $1.6 billion, and a $1.0
billion bridge loan facility (the “Bridge Loan”), pursuant to which it borrowed
$780 million. The Company used the proceeds to finance the acquisition of
AmeriPath, and related transaction costs, to repay substantially all of
AmeriPath’s outstanding debt and to repay the $450 million outstanding under an
interim credit facility used to finance the acquisition of HemoCue and repay
substantially all of HemoCue’s outstanding debt. As discussed below, the
Company used the proceeds from a senior notes offering in 2007 to repay the
entire outstanding balance of the Bridge Loan in full.

The
Term Loan due 2012 matures on May 31, 2012 and requires principal repayments of
$182 million, $280 million and $280 million on December 31, 2011, March 31,
2012 and May 31, 2012, respectively. The Term Loan due 2012 is guaranteed by
the Subsidiary Guarantors. Interest under the Term Loan due 2012 is based on
certain published rates plus an applicable margin that will vary over a range
from 40 basis points to 125 basis points based on changes in the Company’s
public debt ratings. At the Company’s option, it may elect to enter into
LIBOR-based interest rate contracts for periods up to six months. Interest on
any outstanding amounts not covered under LIBOR-based interest rate contracts
is based on an alternate base rate, which is calculated by reference to the
prime rate or federal funds rate. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans was LIBOR (0.2% and 2.2% at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) plus 0.50%.

The
Company incurred $7 million of costs associated with the Term Loan due 2012,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

F-26

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

During
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company repaid $350 million and
$293 million, respectively, of borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan due
2012.

Industrial Revenue Bonds

In
connection with the acquisition of LabOne, Inc. (“LabOne”) in November 2005,
the Company assumed $7.2 million of Industrial Revenue Bonds. Principal was
payable annually in equal installments through September 1, 2009. Interest was
payable monthly at a rate which was adjusted weekly (2.0% at December 31,
2008). The bonds were secured by the Lenexa, Kansas laboratory facility and an
irrevocable bank letter of credit. The entire outstanding
principal balance of $1.8 million as of December 31, 2008 was repaid in full in
September 2009.

Other
Senior Notes

In
2001, the Company issued $275 million aggregate principal amount of 7.5% senior
notes due 2011 (“Senior Notes due 2011”), issued at a discount of $1.1 million.
After considering the discount, the effective interest rate on the Senior Notes
due 2011 is 7.6%. The Senior Notes due 2011 require semiannual interest
payments. The Senior Notes due 2011 are unsecured obligations of the Company
and rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured senior obligations. The
Senior Notes due 2011 are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and do not
have a sinking fund requirement. In connection with the Company’s June 2009
Debt Tender Offer and November 2009 Debt Tender Offer, the Company repaid $26
million and $89 million, respectively, outstanding under the Senior Notes due
2011.

On
October 31, 2005, the Company completed its $900 million private placement of
senior notes (the “2005 Senior Notes”). The 2005 Senior Notes were priced in
two tranches: (a) $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.125% senior
notes due November 2010 (“Senior Notes due 2010”); and (b) $500 million
aggregate principal amount of 5.45% senior notes due November 2015 (“Senior
Notes due 2015”). The Senior Notes due 2010 and 2015 were issued at a discount
of $0.8 million and $1.6 million, respectively. After considering the discounts,
the effective interest rates on the Senior Notes due 2010 and 2015 are 5.3% and
5.6%, respectively. The 2005 Senior Notes require semiannual interest payments,
which commenced on May 1, 2006. The 2005 Senior Notes are unsecured obligations
of the Company and rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured senior
obligations. The 2005 Senior Notes are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
In connection with the Company’s June 2009 Debt Tender Offer and November 2009
Debt Tender Offer, the Company repaid $174 million and $61 million,
respectively, outstanding under the Senior Notes due 2010.

On
June 22, 2007, the Company completed an $800 million senior notes offering (the
“2007 Senior Notes”). The 2007 Senior Notes were priced in two tranches: (a)
$375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.40% senior notes due July 2017
(the “Senior Notes due 2017”), issued at a discount of $0.8 million and (b)
$425 million aggregate principal amount of 6.95% senior notes due July 2037
(the “Senior Notes due 2037”), issued at a discount of $4.7 million. After
considering the discounts, the effective interest rates on the Senior Notes due
2017 and the Senior Notes due 2037 are 6.4% and 7.0%, respectively. The 2007
Senior Notes require semiannual interest payments, which commenced on January
1, 2008. The 2007 Senior Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company and
rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured obligations. The 2007 Senior
Notes do not have a sinking fund requirement and are guaranteed by the Subsidiary
Guarantors.

The
Company incurred $6.3 million of costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

The
Company used the net proceeds from the 2007 Senior Notes to repay the $780
million of borrowings under the Bridge Loan, as discussed above.

Debentures due June 2034

In connection with the acquisition of LabOne
in November 2005, the Company assumed $103.5 million of 3.50% convertible
senior debentures of LabOne due June 15, 2034 (the “Debentures due June 2034”).
As a result of the change in control of LabOne, $99 million of principal was
converted for $126.8 million in cash in 2005. The remaining outstanding
principal of the Debentures due June 2034 totaling $4.5 million was adjusted to
its estimated fair value of $2.9 million on the date of the acquisition,
reflecting a discount of $1.6 million based on the net present value of the
estimated remaining obligations, at then current interest rates. The Debentures
due June 2034 required semi-annual

F-27

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

interest payments in June and December.
During 2009, the remaining $4.5 million of principal outstanding under the
Debentures due June 2034 was repaid in full.

As
of December 31, 2009, long-term debt maturing in each of the years subsequent
to December 31, 2010 is as follows:

11.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Treasury
Forward Agreements

In
June 2007, the Company entered into forward starting interest rate swap
agreements with three financial institutions for a total notional amount of
$300 million to lock the interest rate of a portion of the Company’s offering
of its debt securities in the second quarter of 2007 (the “Treasury Forward
Agreements”). The Treasury Forward Agreements were entered into to hedge a
portion of the Company’s interest rate exposure associated with the debt
securities that were issued in the second quarter of 2007. In connection with
the Company’s 2007 Senior Notes issued in June 2007, the Treasury Forward
Agreements were settled and the Company paid $3.5 million, representing the
loss on the settlement of the Treasury Forward Agreements. These losses are
deferred in stockholders’ equity, net of income taxes, as a component of
“accumulated other comprehensive loss,” and are amortized as an adjustment to
interest expense over the term of the Senior Notes due 2017.

Interest
Rate Swap Agreements - Cash Flow Hedges

In
August 2007, the Company entered into various variable-to-fixed interest rate
swap agreements (“the Interest Rate Swap Agreements”), whereby the Company
fixed the interest rates on $500 million of its Term Loan due May 2012 for
periods ranging from October 2007 through October 2009. In October 2009, the
remaining Interest Rate Swap Agreements, with fixed interest rates ranging from
5.13% to 5.27%, on $200 million of the Term Loan due May 2012 matured with no
net settlement.

During
the third quarter of 2009, the Company entered into various forward starting
interest rate swap agreements (the “Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap
Agreements”) for an aggregate notional amount of $400 million. The Forward
Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements had fixed interest rates ranging from
4.120% to 4.575%. The Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements were 17 to
18 month forward agreements that covered a ten-year hedging period and were
entered into to hedge part of the Company’s interest rate exposure associated
with forecasted new debt issuances related to the refinancing of certain debt
maturing through 2011. In connection with the issuance of our 2009 Senior
Notes, the Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements were terminated and
the Company paid $10.5 million, representing the losses on the settlement of
the Forward Starting Interest Rate Swaps. These losses are deferred in
stockholders’ equity, net of income taxes, as a component of “accumulated other
comprehensive loss,” and amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over
the term of the Senior Notes due 2020.

The
Interest Rate Swap Agreements and Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap
Agreements have been accounted for as cash flow hedges. Prior to their maturity
or settlement, the Company recorded these derivative financial instruments as
either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. The effective portion
of changes in the fair value of the derivatives was recorded in “accumulated
other comprehensive loss.” Any deferred gains or losses are reclassified from
“accumulated other comprehensive loss” to the statement of operations in the
same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings,
which is when the Company recognizes interest expense on the

F-28

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

hedged cash flows. The total
loss, net of tax benefit, recognized in “accumulated other comprehensive loss”
on the Interest Rate Swap Agreements and Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap
Agreements as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $6.2 million and
$3.6 million, respectively. The loss recognized on the Interest Rate Swap
Agreements and Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements for the years
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, as a result of ineffectiveness, was not
material. The amount of deferred gains or losses held in accumulated other
comprehensive loss that is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the
next twelve months is not material.

Interest
Rate Swap Agreements – Fair Value Hedges

In
November 2009, the Company entered into various fixed-to-variable interest rate
swap agreements (the “Fixed-to-Variable Interest Rate Swap Agreements”) which
have a notional amount totaling $350 million and a variable interest rate based
on one-month LIBOR plus 1.33%. These derivative financial instruments are
accounted for as fair value hedges of a portion of our Senior Notes due 2020
and effectively convert that portion of the debt into variable interest rate
debt. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the changes in the fair value of both
the Fixed-to-Variable Interest Rate Swap Agreements and the underlying debt
obligation in “other expense, net” as equal and offsetting gains and losses.
The fair value of the Fixed-to-Variable Interest Rate Swap Agreements was a
liability of $14.4 million at December 31, 2009. Since inception, the fair
value hedges were effective; therefore, there is no impact on earnings for the
year ended December 31, 2009 as a result of hedge ineffectiveness.

Foreign
Currency Forward Contracts

The
Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its risk associated
with foreign currency denominated cash flows. The primary foreign currency
exposures include Swedish krona and British pounds.

A
summary of the fair values of derivative instruments in the consolidated
balance sheets is stated in the table below (in thousands):

12.

PREFERRED
 STOCK AND COMMON STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Series
Preferred Stock

Quest
Diagnostics is authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of Series Preferred
Stock, par value $1.00 per share. The Company’s Board of Directors has the
authority to issue such shares without stockholder approval and to

F-29

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

determine the designations,
preferences, rights and restrictions of such shares. Of the authorized shares,
1,300,000 shares have been designated Series A Preferred Stock and 1,000 shares
have been designated Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock. No shares are currently
outstanding.

Common
Stock

On
May 4, 2006, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation was amended to
increase the number of authorized shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per
share, from 300 million shares to 600 million shares.

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income

The
components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for 2009, 2008 and
2007 were as follows:

The
market value adjustments for 2008 and 2007 represented unrealized holding
losses, net of taxes. The reversal of market value adjustments for 2009, 2008
and 2007 represented prior periods unrealized holding losses for investments
where the decline in fair value was deemed to be other than temporary in 2009,
2008 and 2007, and the resulting loss was recognized in the consolidated
statements of operations (see Note 2). The deferred loss for 2009 primarily
represented the $10.5 million the Company paid upon settlement of the Forward
Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements, net of amounts reclassified to interest
expense. The deferred loss for 2008 primarily represented deferred losses on
the Company’s interest rate swap agreements, net of amounts reclassified to
interest expense. The deferred loss for 2007 represented the $3.5 million the
Company paid upon the settlement of its Treasury Forward Agreements, net of
amounts reclassified as an increase to interest expense, and $2.7 million in
deferred losses on its Interest Rate Swap Agreements (see Note 11). Foreign
currency translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes since they
relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Dividend
Program

During
each of the quarters of 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s Board of Directors
declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share.

F-30

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Share
Repurchase Plan

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company repurchased 10.0 million shares
of its common stock at an average price of $49.83 per share for $500 million,
including 4.5 million shares repurchased from SB Holdings Capital Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc., at an average price of $44.33
per share for $200 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
repurchased 5.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price of
$46.09 per share for $254 million. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the
Company repurchased 2.8 million shares of its common stock at an average price
of $52.14 per share for $146 million.

For the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, the Company reissued 3.0 million shares, 1.5 million shares and
2.9 million, respectively, for employee benefit plans. At December 31, 2009,
previous share repurchase authorizations were fully utilized.

13.

STOCK
 OWNERSHIP AND COMPENSATION PLANS

Employee
and Non-employee Directors Stock Ownership Programs

In
2005, the Company established the ELTIP to replace the Company’s prior Employee
Equity Participation Programs established in 1999 (the “1999 EEPP”) and 1996,
as amended (the “1996 EEPP”). At the Company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in
May 2009, the shareholders approved certain amendments to the ELTIP including:
(i) increasing the number of shares available for award under the ELTIP by
approximately 5.2 million shares; (ii) increasing the maximum term that the
Board of Directors may establish for awards of stock options and stock
appreciation rights from seven to ten years, beginning with awards in 2009; and
(iii) extending the term of the ELTIP until the date of the 2019 annual
shareholders’ meeting.

The ELTIP provides for three types of awards: (a) stock
options, (b) stock appreciation rights and (c) stock awards. The ELTIP provides
for the grant to eligible employees of either non-qualified or incentive stock
options, or both, to purchase shares of Company common stock at a price of no
less than the fair market value on the date of grant. The stock options are
subject to forfeiture if employment terminates prior to the end of the vesting
period prescribed by the Board of Directors. Grants of stock appreciation
rights allow eligible employees to receive a payment based on the appreciation
of Company common stock in cash, shares of Company common stock or a
combination thereof. The stock appreciation rights are granted at an exercise
price at no less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on
the date of grant. Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under
the ELTIP expire on the date designated by the Board of Directors but in no
event more than ten years from date of grant. No stock appreciation rights have
been granted under the ELTIP or the 1999 EEPP. The ELTIP allows eligible
employees to receive awards of shares, or the right to receive shares, of
Company common stock, the equivalent value in cash or a combination thereof.
These shares are generally earned on achievement of financial performance goals
and are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates prior to the end of the
vesting period prescribed by the Board of Directors. For performance share unit
awards granted prior to 2008, the actual amount of performance share awards
earned is based on the Company’s earnings per share growth for the performance
period compared to that of a peer group of companies. Beginning with
performance share unit awards granted in 2008, the performance measure for
these awards is based on the compound annual growth rate of the Company’s
earnings per share from continuing operations over a three year period. Key
executive, managerial and technical employees are eligible to participate in
the ELTIP. The provisions of the 1999 EEPP and the 1996 EEPP were similar to
those outlined above for the ELTIP. Certain options granted under the 1999 EEPP
remain outstanding.

The
maximum number of shares of Company common stock that may be optioned or
granted under the ELTIP is approximately 53 million shares. In addition, any
remaining shares under the 1996 EEPP are available for issuance under the
ELTIP.

In
2005, the Company established the Amended and Restated Director Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the “DLTIP”), to replace the Company’s prior plan established
in 1998. At the Company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in May 2009, the
shareholders approved certain amendments to the DLTIP including: (i) increasing
the number of shares available for award under the DLTIP by 0.4 million shares;
(ii) increasing the maximum term that the Board of Directors may establish for
awards of stock options from seven to ten years, beginning with awards in 2009;
and (iii) extending the term of the DLTIP until the date of the 2019 annual
shareholders’ meeting.

F-31

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
DLTIP provides for the grant to non-employee directors of non-qualified stock
options to purchase shares of Company common stock at a price of no less than
the fair market value on the date of grant. The DLTIP also permits awards of
restricted stock and restricted stock units to non-employee directors. Stock
options granted under the DLTIP expire on the date designated by the Board of
Directors but in no event more than ten years from date of grant, and generally
become exercisable in three equal annual installments beginning on the first
anniversary date of the grant of the option regardless of whether the optionee
remains a director of the Company. The maximum number of shares that may be
issued under the DLTIP is 2.4 million shares. During 2009, 2008 and 2007,
grants under the DLTIP totaled 77, 77 and 81 thousand shares, respectively.

In
general, the Company’s practice has been to issue shares related to its
stock-based compensation program from shares of its common stock held in
treasury. See Note 12 for further information regarding the Company’s share
repurchase program.

The
fair value of each stock option award granted was estimated on the date of
grant using a lattice-based option-valuation model. The expected volatility
under the lattice-based option-valuation model was based on the current and the
historical implied volatilities from traded options of the Company’s common
stock. The dividend yield was based on the approved annual dividend rate in
effect and current market price of the underlying common stock at the time of
grant. The risk-free interest rate of each stock option granted was based on
the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for bonds with
maturities ranging from one month to ten years. The expected holding period of
the options granted was estimated using the historical exercise behavior of
employees. The weighted average assumptions used in valuing options granted in
the periods presented are:

The
fair value of restricted stock awards and performance share units is the
average market price of the Company’s common stock at the date of grant.

Transactions
under the stock option plans for 2009 were as follows:

F-32

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax
intrinsic value (the difference between the Company’s closing common stock
price on the last trading day of 2009 and the exercise price, multiplied by the
number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option
holders had all option holders exercised their options on December 31, 2009.
This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company’s common
stock. Total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was
$44 million, $20 million and $52 million, respectively.

As
of December 31, 2009, there was $12 million of unrecognized stock-based
compensation cost related to stock options which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 1.8 years.

The
following summarizes the activity relative to stock awards, including
restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and performance share units,
for 2009, 2008 and 2007:

As
of December 31, 2009, there was $48 million of unrecognized stock-based
compensation cost related to nonvested stock awards, which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9 years. Total fair value of
shares vested was $16.4 million, $8.4 million and $3.8 million for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The amount of
unrecognized stock-based compensation cost is subject to change based on
revisions, if any, to management’s best estimates of the achievement of the
performance goals specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares
that will be earned at the end of the performance periods.

For
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, stock-based compensation
expense totaled $75 million, $71 million and $57 million, respectively. Income
tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense totaled $29 million,
$28 million and $23 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.

Employee
Stock Purchase Plan

Under
the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), which was approved by the
Company’s shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
substantially all employees can elect to have up to 10% of their annual wages
withheld to purchase Quest Diagnostics common stock. The purchase price of the
stock is 85% of the market price of the Company’s common stock on the last
business day of each calendar month. Under the ESPP, the maximum number of
shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock which may be purchased by eligible
employees is 5 million. Approximately 445, 436 and 448 thousand shares of
common stock were purchased by eligible employees in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Defined
Contribution Plans

The
Company maintains qualified defined contribution plans covering substantially
all of its employees, and matches employee contributions up to a maximum of 6%.
The Company’s expense for contributions to its defined contribution plans
aggregated $82 million, $78 million and $76 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

F-33

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Supplemental
Deferred Compensation Plan

The
Company’s supplemental deferred compensation plan is an unfunded, non-qualified
plan that provides for certain management and highly compensated employees to
defer up to 50% of their salary in excess of their defined contribution plan
limits and for certain eligible employees, up to 95% of their variable
incentive compensation. The Company matches employee contributions up to a
maximum of 6%. The compensation deferred under this plan, together with Company
matching amounts, are credited with earnings or losses measured by the mirrored
rate of return on investments elected by plan participants. Each plan
participant is fully vested in all deferred compensation, Company match and
earnings credited to their account. The amounts accrued under this plan were
$34 million and $25 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Although the Company is currently contributing all participant deferrals and
matching amounts to a trust, the funds in the trust, totaling $34 million and
$25 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, are general assets of
the Company and are subject to any claims of the Company’s creditors. The
Company’s expense for matching contributions to this plan were approximately $1
million for 2009, 2008 and 2007.

14.

RELATED
 PARTY TRANSACTIONS

At
December 31, 2009, GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”), the parent company of
SmithKline Beecham, beneficially owned approximately 17% of the outstanding
shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock.

Quest
Diagnostics is the primary provider of testing to support GSK’s clinical trials
testing requirements under worldwide agreements (the “Clinical Trials
Agreements”). Net revenues, primarily derived under the Clinical Trials
Agreements were $72 million, $71 million and $79 million for 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, accounts receivable due from
GSK were $17.3 million and $9.1 million, respectively.

In
addition, in connection with the acquisition of SBCL, SmithKline Beecham agreed
to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after tax basis, against certain matters
primarily related to taxes and billing and professional liability claims.

At
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, liabilities included $1 million and
$13 million, respectively, due to SmithKline Beecham, primarily related to tax
benefits associated with certain pre-acquisition tax loss carryforwards. During
2009, the Company paid SmithKline Beecham approximately $10 million related to
the realization of certain pre-acquisition net loss carryforwards that were payable
to SmithKline Beecham pursuant to a tax indemnification arrangement.

15.

COMMITMENTS
 AND CONTINGENCIES

Letter
of Credit Lines and Contractual Obligations

The
Company has a line of credit with a financial institution totaling $85 million
for the issuance of letters of credit (the “Letter of Credit Line”). The Letter
of Credit Line, which is renewed annually, matures on November 19, 2010 and is
guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.

In
support of its risk management program, to ensure the Company’s performance or
payment to third parties, $74 million in letters of credit were outstanding at
December 31, 2009. The letters of credit primarily represent collateral for
current and future automobile liability and workers’ compensation loss
payments. In addition, $6.6 million of bank guarantees were outstanding at
December 31, 2009 in support of certain foreign operations.

F-34

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Minimum
rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, primarily real estate,
in effect at December 31, 2009 are as follows:

Operating
lease rental expense for 2009, 2008 and 2007 aggregated $189 million, $190
million and $171 million, respectively. Rent expense associated with operating
leases that include scheduled rent increases and tenant incentives, such as
rent holidays, is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

The
Company has certain noncancelable commitments to purchase products or services
from various suppliers, mainly for telecommunications and standing orders to
purchase reagents and other laboratory supplies. At December 31, 2009, the
approximate total future purchase commitments are $130 million, of which $51
million are expected to be incurred in 2010, $62 million are expected to be
incurred in 2011 through 2012 and the balance thereafter.

Contingent
Lease Obligations

The
Company remains subject to contingent obligations under certain real estate
leases that were entered into by certain predecessor companies of a subsidiary
prior to the Company’s acquisition of the subsidiary. While the title to the
properties and interest to the subject leases have been transferred to third
parties on several occasions over the course of many years, the lessors have
not released the subsidiary predecessor companies from their original
obligations under the leases and therefore remain contingently liable in the
event of default. The remaining terms of the lease obligations and the
Company’s corresponding indemnifications range from 15 to 39 years. The lease
payments under certain leases are subject to market value adjustments and
therefore, the total contingent obligations under the leases cannot be
precisely determined but are likely to total several hundred million dollars. A
claim against the Company would be made only upon the current lessee’s default
and after a series of claims and corresponding defaults by third parties that
precede the Company in the order of indemnification. The Company also has
certain indemnification rights from other parties to recover losses in the
event of default on the lease obligations. The Company believes that the
likelihood of its performance under these contingent obligations is remote and
no liability has been recorded for any potential payments under the contingent
lease obligations.

Legal
Matters

The
Company is involved in various legal proceedings. Some of the proceedings
against the Company involve claims that are substantial in amount.

In
2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U. S. Attorney’s Office for the
District of New Jersey. The subpoena seeks the production of business and
financial records regarding capitation and risk sharing arrangements with
government and private payers for the years 1993 through 1999. The Company
cooperated with the U. S. Attorney’s Office.

In
2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U. S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Office of the Inspector General, seeking business records
including records regarding the Company’s relationship with health maintenance
organizations, independent physician associations, group purchasing
organizations, and preferred provider organizations relating back to 1995. The
Company has cooperated with the investigation. Subsequently, in November 2009, the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York partially unsealed a civil
complaint, U. S. ex rel. Fair Laboratory

F-35

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Practices Associates v. Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated, filed against the Company under the whistleblower
provisions of the federal False Claims Act. The complaint alleges, among other
things, violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False
Claims Act in connection with the Company’s pricing of laboratory services. The
complaint seeks damages for alleged false claims associated with laboratory
tests reimbursed by government payors, treble damages and civil penalties.

In
2006 and 2008, the Company and several of its subsidiaries received subpoenas
from the California Attorney General’s Office seeking documents relating to the
Company’s billings to MediCal, the California Medicaid program. The Company has
cooperated with the government’s requests. Subsequently, the State of
California intervened as plaintiff in a civil lawsuit, California ex rel.
Hunter Laboratories, LLC v. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated., et al., filed in
California Superior Court against a number of clinical laboratories, including
the Company and several of its subsidiaries. The complaint alleges overcharging
of MediCal for testing services. The complaint was originally filed by a
competitor laboratory in California under the whistleblower provisions of the
California False Claims Act. The complaint was unsealed on March 20, 2009.

In
June 2009, a shareholder plaintiff filed a purported derivative action in the
Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris County, on behalf of the Company against
certain present and former directors and officers of the Company based on,
among other things, their alleged breaches of fiduciary duties in connection
with the manufacture, marketing, sale and billing related to certain test kits
manufactured by NID. The complaint includes claims for, among other things,
breach of fiduciary duty and waste of corporate assets and seeks, among other
things, damages and remission of compensation received by the individual
defendants.

In
2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries also received subpoenas from
state agencies in three states which seek documents relating to the Company’s
Medicaid billing practices in those states. The Company is cooperating with the
requests.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on new theories as to the
Company’s practices which management believes to be in compliance with law. In
addition, certain federal and state statutes, including the qui tam provisions
of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits
against healthcare companies on behalf of government or private payers. The
Company is aware of certain pending individual or class action lawsuits, and
has received several subpoenas, related to billing practices filed under the
qui tam provisions of the Civil False Claims Act and/or other federal and state
statutes, regulations or other laws. The Company understands that there may be
other pending qui tam claims brought by former employees or other “whistle
blowers” as to which the Company cannot determine the extent of any potential
liability.

Several
of these matters are in their early stages of development and involve
responding to and cooperating with various government investigations and
related subpoenas. While the Company believes that at least a reasonable
possibility exists that losses may have been incurred, based on the nature and
status of the investigations, the losses are either currently not probable or
cannot be reasonably estimated.

Management
has established reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles for the matters discussed above. Such reserves totaled approximately
$10 million as of December 31, 2009. Although management cannot predict the
outcome of such matters, management does not anticipate that the ultimate
outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition but may be material to the Company’s results of operations
or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined
or paid.

As
a general matter, providers of clinical testing services may be subject to
lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These suits could
involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability litigation
could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s client base and reputation.
The Company maintains various liability insurance coverages for, among other
things, claims that could result from providing, or failing to provide, clinical
testing services, including inaccurate testing results, and other exposures.
The Company’s insurance coverage limits its maximum exposure on individual
claims; however, the Company is essentially self-insured for a significant portion
of these claims. Reserves for such matters are established by considering
actuarially determined losses based upon the Company’s historical and projected
loss experience. Management believes that present insurance

F-36

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

coverage and reserves are
sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures. Although management cannot
predict the outcome of any claims made against the Company, management does not
anticipate that the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings or claims will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition but may be
material to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in the period in
which the impact of such claims is determined or paid.

16.

DISCONTINUED
 OPERATIONS

During
the fourth quarter of 2005, NID instituted its second voluntary product hold
within a six-month period due to quality issues, which adversely impacted the
operating performance of NID. As a result, the Company evaluated a number of
strategic options for NID. On April 19, 2006, the Company decided to
discontinue NID’s operations. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company
completed its wind down of NID and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. Results of operations for NID have been reported as
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations and related disclosures for all periods presented.

During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions with respect to the government’s investigation involving NID and
the Company. Based on the status of settlement discussions, during 2007 the Company
established a reserve, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection
with these claims.

During
the third quarter of 2008, the Company and NID reached an agreement in
principle with the United States Attorney’s Office to settle the federal
government investigation involving NID and the Company regarding NID test kits
and tests performed using those test kits. As a result of the agreement in
principle in 2008, the Company recorded charges of $75 million in discontinued
operations to increase its reserve for the settlement and related matters.

On April 15, 2009, the
Company finalized the resolution of the federal government investigation
related to NID and entered into a final settlement agreement with the federal
government. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company paid $268 million to
settle the civil allegations. The Company also entered into a five-year
corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General for the
United States Department of Health and Human Services. In addition, NID pled
guilty to a single count of felony misbranding and paid a $40 million fine.
These second quarter payments totaling $308 million, which had been previously
reserved, were funded out of cash on-hand and available credit facilities.
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company finalized separate settlement
agreements with certain states and paid approximately $6 million, which had
been previously reserved for.

Summarized
financial information for the discontinued operations of NID is set forth
below:

At
December 31, 2008, the settlement reserve totaling $316 million is included in
“accounts payable and accrued expenses” in the consolidated balance sheet which
was paid in 2009. The deferred tax asset recorded in connection with
establishing the reserve of $58 million is included in “deferred income taxes”
in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008. The remaining balance
sheet information related to NID was not material at December 31, 2009 and
2008.

F-37

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

17.

BUSINESS
 SEGMENT INFORMATION

Clinical
testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services.
Physicians use clinical tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis,
evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions.
Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical laboratory testing and
anatomic pathology services. Clinical laboratory testing is performed on whole
blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids, such as urine, and specimens such
as microbiology samples. Anatomic pathology services are principally for the
detection of cancer and are performed on tissues, such as biopsies, and other
samples, such as human cells. Customers of the clinical testing business
include patients, physicians, hospitals, employers, governmental institutions
and other commercial clinical laboratories. The clinical testing business
accounted for greater than 90% of net revenues from continuing operations in
2009, 2008 and 2007.

All
other operating segments include the Company’s non-clinical testing businesses
and consist of its risk assessment services business, its clinical trials
testing business, its healthcare information technology business, and its
diagnostics products businesses. The Company’s risk assessment business
provides underwriting support services to the life insurance industry including
teleunderwriting, paramedical examinations, laboratory testing and medical
record retrieval. The Company’s clinical trials testing business provides
clinical testing performed in connection with clinical research trials on new
drugs and vaccines. The Company’s healthcare information technology business is
a developer and integrator of clinical connectivity and data management
solutions for healthcare organizations, physicians and clinicians. The
Company’s diagnostics products business manufactures and markets diagnostic
test kits.

On
April 19, 2006, the Company decided to discontinue NID’s operations and results
of operations for NID have been classified as discontinued operations for all
years presented (see Note 16).

During
the first quarter of 2007 and second quarter of 2007, the Company acquired
Hemocue and AmeriPath, respectively (see Note 4). Hemocue is included in the
Company’s other operating segments. AmeriPath’s operations are included in the
Company’s clinical testing business.

At
December 31, 2009, substantially all of the Company’s services are provided within
the United States, and substantially all of the Company’s assets are located
within the United States.

The
following table is a summary of segment information for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Segment asset information is not presented
since it is not used by the chief operating decision maker at the operating
segment level. Operating earnings (loss) of each segment represents net
revenues less directly identifiable expenses to arrive at operating income for
the segment. General management and administrative corporate expenses,
including amortization of intangible assets, are included in general corporate
expenses below. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
of the Company as set forth in Note 2.

F-38

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-39

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

18.

SUBSEQUENT
EVENTS

In
January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized $750 million of additional
share repurchases. The share repurchase authorization has no set expiration or
termination date.

Also, in January 2010, the Company executed an accelerated
share repurchase transaction with a bank to acquire approximately 4.5 million
shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock, at an initial purchase price
of $56.05 per share, for $250 million. The purchase price for these shares is
subject to an adjustment based on the volume weighted average price of the
Company’s common stock during a period following the execution of the
agreement.

19.

SUMMARIZED
FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The
Company’s Senior Notes due 2010, Senior Notes due 2011, Senior Notes due 2015,
Senior Notes due 2017, Senior Notes due 2020, Senior Notes due 2037 and Senior
Notes due 2040 are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally,
by the Subsidiary Guarantors. With the exception of Quest Diagnostics
Receivables Incorporated (see paragraph below), the non-guarantor subsidiaries
are primarily foreign and less than wholly-owned subsidiaries.

In
conjunction with the Company’s Secured Receivables Credit Facility, the Company
maintains a wholly-owned non-guarantor subsidiary, Quest Diagnostics
Receivables Incorporated (“QDRI”). The Company and certain of its Subsidiary
Guarantors transfer certain domestic receivables to QDRI. QDRI utilizes the
transferred receivables to collateralize borrowings under the Company’s Secured
Receivables Credit Facility. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors provide
collection services to QDRI. QDRI uses cash collections principally to purchase
new receivables from the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.

The
following condensed consolidating financial data illustrates the composition of
the combined guarantors. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the
parent using the equity method for purposes of the supplemental consolidating
presentation. Earnings (losses) of subsidiaries are therefore reflected in the
parent’s investment accounts and earnings. The principal elimination entries
relate to investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and
transactions.

F-40

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet

December 31, 2009

F-41

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
 SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
 indicated)

Condensed
 Consolidating Balance Sheet

December
 31, 2008

F-42

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
 indicated)

Condensed
 Consolidating Statement of Operations

For the
 Year Ended December 31, 2009

F-43

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
 SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise
 indicated)

Condensed
 Consolidating Statement of Operations

For the
 Year Ended December 31, 2008

F-44

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed
Consolidating Statement of Operations

For the Year Ended December 31, 2007

F-45

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

For the Year Ended December 31, 2009

Condensed
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

For the Year Ended December 31, 2008

F-46

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

For the Year Ended December 31, 2007

F-47

QUEST
DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

(

in thousands, except per share data)

Q

uarterly Operating Results (unaudited)

F-48

F-49

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

S

CH

EDULE II - VALUATION ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

(in thousands)

(a)

Primarily
 represents the write-off of accounts receivable, net of recoveries.

F-50

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

EXHIBITS
TO FORM 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009

Commission File No. 001-12215

QUEST
DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED

E-1

E-2

E-3