
10-K
a34631.txt
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC.




UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC  20549

FORM 10-K

                                                        [Quest Diagnostics Logo]

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2002
Commission File Number 1-12215

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
One Malcolm Avenue, Teterboro, NJ  07608
(201) 393-5000

Delaware
(State of Incorporation)

16-1387862
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class                   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock
   with attached Preferred Share Purchase Right         New York Stock Exchange

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes  X   No ___

As of June 28, 2002, the aggregate market value of the approximately 74.6
million shares of voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was approximately $6.4 billion, based on the closing price on
such date of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange.

As of February 28, 2003, there were outstanding 105,181,208 shares of Common
Stock, $.01 par value.

Documents Incorporated by Reference
                                                 Part of Form 10-K into
Document                                           which incorporated
- --------                                         ----------------------

Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement
to be filed by April 30, 2003 ................         Part  III

Such Proxy Statement, except for portions thereof, which have been specifically
incorporated by reference, shall not be deemed "filed" as part of this report on
Form 10-K.







                                     PART I
Item 1. Business

Overview

     We are the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and
services, providing insights that enable physicians, hospitals, managed care
organizations and other healthcare professionals to make decisions to improve
health. We offer patients and physicians the broadest access to diagnostics
laboratory services through our national network of laboratories and patient
service centers. We provide interpretive consultation through the largest
medical and scientific staff in the industry, with over 300 physicians and
Ph.D.'s around the country. We are the leading provider of esoteric testing,
including gene-based testing, and testing for drugs of abuse. We are also a
leading provider of anatomic pathology services and testing for clinical trials.
We empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with state-of-the-art
connectivity solutions that improve patient care.

     During 2002, we generated net revenues of $4.1 billion and processed over
115 million requisitions for testing. After giving effect to our recent
acquisition of Unilab Corporation, we process over 130 million requisitions on
an annual basis. Each requisition form accompanies a patient specimen,
indicating the tests to be performed and the party to be billed for the tests.
Our customers include physicians, hospitals, managed care organizations,
employers, governmental institutions and other independent clinical
laboratories.

     We currently operate a nationwide network of approximately 1,700 patient
service centers, principal laboratories located in more than 30 major
metropolitan areas throughout the United States, and approximately 140 smaller
"rapid response" laboratories (including, in each case, facilities operated at
our joint ventures and facilities operated by Unilab Corporation which we
acquired in February 2003). We are the only company in our industry to provide
full esoteric testing services, including gene-based testing, on both coasts
through our Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute facilities, located in San Juan
Capistrano, California and Chantilly, Virginia. We also have laboratory
facilities in Mexico City, Mexico and San Juan, Puerto Rico and near London,
England.

     We are a Delaware corporation. We sometimes refer to ourselves and our
subsidiaries as the "Company". We are the successor to MetPath Inc., a New York
corporation that was organized in 1967. From 1982 to 1996, we were a subsidiary
of Corning Incorporated ("Corning"). On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed
all of the outstanding shares of our common stock to the stockholders of
Corning. In August 1999, we completed the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham
Clinical Laboratories, Inc. ("SBCL"), which operated the clinical laboratory
business of SmithKline Beecham plc ("SmithKline Beecham").

     Our principal executive offices are located at One Malcolm Avenue,
Teterboro, New Jersey 07608, telephone number: (201) 393-5000. Our filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website as soon
as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
Our Internet website is located at http://www.questdiagnostics.com.

The United States Clinical Laboratory Testing Market

     Clinical laboratory testing is an essential element in the delivery of
healthcare services. Physicians use laboratory tests to assist in the detection,
diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical
conditions. Clinical laboratory testing is generally categorized as clinical
testing and anatomic pathology testing. Clinical testing is performed on body
fluids, such as blood and urine. Anatomic pathology testing is performed on
tissues and other samples, such as human cells. Most clinical laboratory tests
are considered routine and can be performed by most independent clinical
laboratories. Tests that are not routine and that require more sophisticated
equipment and highly skilled personnel are considered esoteric tests. Esoteric
tests, including gene-based tests, are generally referred to laboratories that
specialize in performing those tests.

     We believe that the United States diagnostics testing industry had over $36
billion in annual revenues in 2002. Most laboratory tests are performed by one
of three types of laboratories: independent clinical laboratories;
hospital-affiliated laboratories; and physician-office laboratories. In 2002, we
believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories performed over one half of the
clinical laboratory tests in the United States, independent clinical
laboratories performed approximately one-third of those tests, and
physician-office laboratories performed the balance.

     After years of declining reimbursement and reduced test utilization during
the early to mid-1990s, the underlying fundamentals of the diagnostics testing
industry have improved during the last several years. During the early 1990s,
the industry was negatively impacted by significant government regulation and
investigations into various billing practices. In addition, the rapid growth of
managed care, as a result of the need to reduce overall healthcare costs, and







excess laboratory testing capacity, led to revenue and profit declines across
the diagnostics testing industry, which in turn led to industry consolidation,
particularly among commercial laboratories. As a result of these dynamics, fewer
but larger commercial laboratories have emerged, which have greater economies of
scale, rigorous programs designed to assure compliance with government billing
regulations and other laws, and a more disciplined approach to pricing services.
These changes have resulted in improved profitability and a reduced risk of
non-compliance with complex government regulations. At the same time, a slowdown
in the growth of managed care and decreasing influence by managed care
organizations on the ordering of clinical laboratory testing by physicians has
contributed to renewed growth in testing volumes and further improvements in
profitability since 1999.

     We believe that during the next several years, the industry will continue
to experience revenue growth of approximately 5% per year and, in the longer
term, we expect industry revenue growth to increase as much as 7% per year due
to the following factors:

     o    general expansion and aging of the United States population;

     o    increasing focus on early detection and prevention as a means to
          reduce the overall cost of healthcare and development of more
          sophisticated and specialized tests for early detection of disease and
          disease management;

     o    continuing research and development in the area of genomics and
          proteomics, which is expected to yield new genetic tests and
          techniques;

     o    increasing volume of tests for diagnosis and monitoring of infectious
          diseases such as AIDS and hepatitis C;

     o    increasing affordability of tests due to advances in technology and
          cost efficiencies; and

     o    increasing awareness by consumers of the value of clinical laboratory
          testing and increasing willingness of consumers to pay for tests that
          may not be covered by third party payers.

Business Strategy

     Our mission is to be recognized by our customers and employees as the best
provider of comprehensive and innovative diagnostic testing, information and
related services. The principal components of this strategy are to:

     o    Capitalize on Our Leading Position Within the Laboratory Testing
          Market: We are the leader in our core clinical laboratory testing
          business offering the broadest national access to clinical laboratory
          testing services, with facilities in substantially all of the major
          metropolitan areas in the United States. We currently operate a
          nationwide network of approximately 1,700 patient service centers,
          principal laboratories located in more than 30 major metropolitan
          areas throughout the United States and about 140 smaller "rapid
          response" laboratories that enable us to serve physicians, managed
          care organizations, hospitals, employers and other healthcare
          providers and their patients throughout the United States. We believe
          that customers will increasingly seek to utilize laboratory testing
          companies that have a nationwide presence and offer a comprehensive
          range of services and that, as a result, we will be able to profitably
          enhance our market position.

     o    Compete Through Providing the Highest Quality Services: We intend to
          become recognized as the quality leader in the healthcare services
          industry. We are implementing a Six Sigma initiative throughout our
          organization. Six Sigma is a management approach that requires a
          thorough understanding of customer needs and requirements, process
          discipline, rigorous tracking and measuring of services, and training
          of employees in methodologies so that they can be held accountable for
          improving results. During the second half of 2001, we began to
          integrate our Six Sigma initiative with our initiative to standardize
          operations and processes across all of Quest Diagnostics by adopting
          identified company best practices. We plan to continue these
          initiatives during the next several years and expect that successful
          implementation of these initiatives will result in measurable
          improvements in customer satisfaction as well as significant economic
          benefits. The Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute was the first
          clinical laboratory in North America to achieve ISO-9001
          certification. Two of our clinical trials laboratories and our
          diagnostic kits facility have also achieved ISO-9001 certification. In
          addition, five of our laboratories, including a forensic toxicology
          laboratory, have achieved ISO-9002 certification. These certifications
          are international standards for quality management systems.









     o    Continue to Lead Innovation: We intend to build upon our reputation as
          a leading innovator in the clinical laboratory industry by continuing
          to introduce new tests, technology and services. As the industry
          leader with the largest and broadest network and the leading provider
          of esoteric testing, including gene-based testing, we believe that we
          are the best channel for developers of new technology and tests to
          introduce their products to the marketplace. Through our relationship
          with members of the academic community and pharmaceutical and
          biotechnology firms, as well as our collaboration with emerging
          medical technology companies that develop and commercialize novel
          diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device technologies, we believe that
          we are one of the leaders in transferring technical innovation to the
          market.

          During 2002, through our research and development, marketing and
          commercial alliance with Roche Diagnostics, we were the first
          laboratory to offer several new tests of Roche, including its Elecsys
          NT-proBNP test (which aids in the diagnostics of congestive heart
          failure). We entered into a relationship with Celera Diagnostics that
          gives us access to potentially significant markers for the risk of
          cardiovascular disease, the leading cause of death in the United
          States, and diabetes. We also established a relationship with
          Correlogic Systems and gained access to its new ovarian cancer blood
          test, which we expect will be available to the marketplace later in
          2003.

          In addition, we continue to introduce new tests that we develop at
          Nichols Institute, one of the leading esoteric testing laboratories in
          the world and the largest provider of molecular diagnostics testing in
          the United States. During 2002, we developed and introduced a new test
          called CF Complete'TM' for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in high
          risk patients. The CF Complete'TM' test is the only test that
          sequences the entire CF gene and its 1,000 mutations. We are expanding
          DNA based testing in the clinical laboratory to provide enhanced
          sensitivity, accuracy and reliability of this next generation
          technology.

          We believe that, with the unveiling of the human genome, new genes and
          the linkages of genes with disease will continue to be discovered at
          an accelerating pace, leading to research that will result in ever
          more complex and thorough predictive, diagnostic and therapeutic
          testing. We believe that we are well positioned to capture much of
          this growth.

          We continue to invest in the development and improvement of our
          connectivity products for customers and providers by developing
          differentiated products that will provide friendlier, easier access to
          ordering and resulting of laboratory tests and patient-centric
          information. In February 2003, we launched our eMaxx'TM' Internet
          portal to physicians nationwide, which enables doctors to order
          diagnostic tests and review laboratory results online, as well as
          check patients' insurance eligibility in real time and view clinical
          information from many sources.

     o    Pursue Strategic Growth Opportunities: We intend to continue to
          leverage our network in order to capitalize on targeted strategic
          growth opportunities both inside and outside our core clinical
          laboratory testing business. These opportunities are more fully
          described under "Strategic Growth Opportunities" and include expanding
          our gene-based and specialty testing capabilities, expanding our
          geographic presence across the United States, and continuing to make
          selective acquisitions and developing connectivity products for
          customers and providers.

     o    Leverage Our Satisfaction Model: Our approach to conducting business
          states that satisfied employees lead to satisfied customers, which in
          turn benefits our stockholders. We regularly survey our employees and
          customers and follow up on their concerns. We emphasize skills
          training for all employees and leadership training for our supervisory
          employees, which also includes Six Sigma training to manage
          high-impact quality improvement projects throughout our organization,
          and annual compliance training. We are committed to engaging each
          employee with dignity and respect and trust them to treat our
          customers the same way. We believe that our treatment and training of
          employees, together with our competitive pay and benefits, helps
          increase employee satisfaction and performance, thereby enabling us to
          provide better services to our customers.









Recent Acquisitions

     On February 26, 2003, we accepted for payment more than 99% of the
outstanding capital stock of Unilab Corporation, or Unilab, the leading
independent clinical laboratory in California. On February 28, 2003, we acquired
the remaining shares of Unilab through a merger. In connection with the
acquisition, we issued approximately 7.4 million shares of Quest Diagnostics
common stock (including 0.3 million shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock
reserved for outstanding stock options of Unilab which were converted upon the
completion of the acquisition into options to acquire shares of Quest
Diagnostics common stock), paid $297 million in cash and we plan to repay
substantially all of Unilab's outstanding indebtedness. Unilab, which generated
net revenues of approximately $425 million in 2002, has three regional
laboratories, approximately 365 patient service centers and 35 rapid response
laboratories and approximately 4,100 employees. We expect to incur up to $20
million of costs during 2003 and 2004 to integrate Unilab and our existing
California operations. Upon completion of the Unilab integration, we expect to
realize approximately $25 million to $30 million of annual synergies. We expect
to achieve this annual rate of synergies by the end of 2005.

     In connection with the acquisition of Unilab, as part of a settlement
agreement with the United States Federal Trade Commission, we entered into an
agreement to sell to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc., or
LabCorp, certain assets in northern California, including the assignment of
agreements with four independent physician associations ("IPA") and leases for
46 patient service centers (five of which also serve as rapid response
laboratories) for $4.5 million. Approximately $27 million in annual net revenues
are generated by capitated fees under the IPA contracts and associated
fee-for-service testing for physicians whose patients use these patient service
centers, as well as from specimens received directly from the IPA physicians.

     On April 1, 2002, we acquired American Medical Laboratories, Incorporated,
or AML, and an affiliated company of AML, LabPortal, Inc., a provider of
electronic connectivity products, in an all-cash transaction valued at
approximately $500 million, which included the assumption of approximately $160
million in debt. AML is a national provider of esoteric testing to hospitals and
specialty physicians and is a leading provider of diagnostics testing services
in the Nevada and metropolitan Washington, D.C. markets. The Company's
Chantilly, Virginia laboratory, acquired as part of the AML acquisition, has
become the primary esoteric testing laboratory and hospital service center for
the eastern United States and will complement our Nichols Institute esoteric
testing facility in San Juan Capistrano, California. Esoteric testing volumes
will be redirected within our national network to provide customers with
improved turnaround time and customer service. Certain routine clinical
laboratory testing currently performed in the Chantilly, Virginia laboratory
will transition over time to other testing facilities within our regional
laboratory network. During 2002, we repaid all of the $475 million in
indebtedness we incurred in connection with the acquisition.

     Following an acquisition, the integration process requires the dedication
of significant management resources, which could result in a loss of momentum in
the activities of our business and may cause an interruption of, or
deterioration in, our services. Since most of our clinical laboratory testing is
performed under arrangements that are terminable at will or on short notice, any
interruption of, or deterioration in, our services may also result in a
customer's decision to stop using us for clinical laboratory testing. These
events could have a material adverse impact on our business. However, management
believes that the successful implementation of our integration plans and our
value proposition based on expanded patient access, our broad testing
capabilities and most importantly, the quality of the services we provide, will
mitigate customer attrition.

Our Services

     Our laboratory testing business consists of routine testing, esoteric
testing, and clinical trials testing. Routine testing generates approximately
83% of our net revenues, esoteric and gene-based testing generates approximately
13% of our net revenues, and clinical trials testing generates less than 3% of
our net revenues. We derive less than 2% of our net revenues from foreign
operations.









Routine Testing

     Routine tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as
the functions of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly
ordered tests include:

     o    blood cholesterol level tests;

     o    complete blood cell counts;

     o    pap smears;

     o    HIV-related tests;

     o    urinalyses;

     o    pregnancy and other prenatal tests; and

     o    alcohol and other substance-abuse tests.

     We perform routine testing through our network of major laboratories, rapid
response laboratories, or "stat" labs, and patient service centers. We also
perform routine testing at the hospital laboratories we manage. Major
laboratories offer a full line of routine clinical tests. Rapid response
laboratories are local facilities where we can quickly perform an abbreviated
line of routine tests for customers that require rapid turnaround. Patient
service centers are facilities where specimens are collected. These centers are
typically located in or near a building used by medical professionals.

     We operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We perform and report most
routine procedures within 24 hours. Most test results are delivered
electronically.

Esoteric Testing

     Esoteric tests are those tests that are performed less frequently than
routine tests and require more sophisticated technology, equipment and
materials, professional "hands-on" attention and more highly skilled
professional and technical personnel. Because it is not cost-effective for most
clinical laboratories to perform the low volume of esoteric tests in-house, they
generally refer many esoteric tests to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory.
Due to their complexity, esoteric tests are generally reimbursed at higher
levels than routine tests.

     Our Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute is one of the leading esoteric
clinical testing laboratories in the world. In 1998, Nichols Institute, located
in San Juan Capistrano, California, became the first clinical laboratory in
North America to achieve ISO-9001 certification. Our esoteric testing laboratory
in Chantilly, Virginia, acquired as part of the AML acquisition, now enables us
to provide full esoteric testing services, including gene-based testing, on the
east coast. Our two esoteric testing laboratories, which conduct business as
Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute, perform hundreds of esoteric tests that are
not routinely performed by our regional laboratories. These esoteric tests are
generally in the following fields:

     o    endocrinology (the study of glands, their hormone secretions and their
          effects on body growth and metabolism);

     o    genetics (the study of chromosomes, genes, and their protein products
          and effects);

     o    immunology (the study of the immune system including antibodies,
          immune system cells and their effects);

     o    microbiology (the study of microscopic forms of life including
          bacteria, viruses, fungi and other infectious agents);

     o    oncology (the study of abnormal cell growth including benign tumors
          and cancer);

     o    serology (a science dealing with the body fluids and their analysis,
          including antibodies, proteins and other characteristics);









     o    special chemistry (more sophisticated testing requiring special
          expertise and technology); and

     o    toxicology (the study of chemicals and drugs and their effects on the
          body's metabolism).

     Through our relationship with members of the academic community and
pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, as well as our collaboration with
emerging medical technology companies that develop and commercialize novel
diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device technologies, we believe that we are one
of the leaders in transferring technical innovation to the market. For example,
through our relationships with Roche Diagnostics, Celera Diagnostics and
Correlogic Systems, we have either introduced or gained access to new innovative
tests that help provide insights to detect, treat and monitor various diseases
and disorders. In addition, Nichols Institute continues to introduce new tests,
such as the CF Complete'TM' test, the most comprehensive genetic test available
to sequence cystic fibrosis gene mutations (see "Business Strategy - Continue to
Lead Innovation").

     Through our Academic Associates program, leading academics and
biotechnology firms work directly with our staff scientists to monitor and
consult on existing test procedures and develop new esoteric test methods. In
addition, we have entered into licensing arrangements and co-development
agreements with biotechnology companies and academic medical centers (see
"Business Strategy-Continue to Lead Innovation").

Clinical Trials Testing

     We believe that we are the second largest provider of clinical laboratory
testing performed in connection with clinical research trials on new drugs in
the world. Clinical research trials are required by the Food and Drug
Administration, or FDA, to assess the safety and efficacy of new drugs. We have
clinical trials testing centers in the United States and in England. We also
provide clinical trials testing in Australia, Singapore, and South Africa
through arrangements with third parties. Clinical trials involving new drugs are
increasingly being performed both inside and outside the United States.
Approximately 40% of our net revenues from clinical trials testing in 2002
represented testing for GlaxoSmithKline plc ("GSK"). We currently have a
long-term contractual relationship with GSK, under which we are the primary
provider of testing to support GSK's clinical trials testing requirements
worldwide.

Other Services and Products

     We manufacture and market diagnostic test kits and systems primarily for
esoteric testing under the Nichols Institute Diagnostics brand name. These are
sold principally to hospitals and clinical laboratories, both domestically and
internationally. Our MedPlus subsidiary is a developer and integrator for
clinical connectivity and data management solutions for healthcare organizations
and clinicians primarily through its ChartMaxx'TM' electronic medical record
system, and provides workflow and content management solutions to customers in a
variety of industries. Recently, Quest Diagnostics has begun deploying
eMaxx'TM', a new state-of-the-art physician's Internet portal across the United
States. The Internet portal was developed in conjunction with MedPlus and will
give physicians greater access to laboratory testing and other clinical
information on-line.

Payers and Customers

     We provide testing services to a broad range of healthcare providers. We
consider a "payer" as the party that pays for the test. Depending on the billing
arrangement and applicable law, the payer may be (1) the physician or other
party (such as another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to
us, (2) the patient, or (3) a third party who pays the bill for the patient,
such as an insurance company, Medicare or Medicaid. Some states, including New
York, New Jersey and Rhode Island, prohibit us from billing physician clients.
We generally consider a "customer" to be the party who refers tests to us. We
also consider a managed care organization as both our customer and a payer, when
it contracts with us on an exclusive or semi-exclusive basis on behalf of its
patients.

     During 2002, only two customers accounted for more than 5% of our net
revenues, and no single customer accounted for more than 7% of our net revenues.
We believe that the loss of any one of our customers would not have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow.









Payers

     The following table shows current estimates of the breakdown of the
percentage of our total volume of requisitions and total clinical laboratory
revenues during 2002 applicable to each payer group:

                                                                  Revenue
                                                                  as % of
                                       Requisition Volume          Total
                                             as % of        Clinical Laboratory
                                          Total Volume            Revenues
                                       ------------------   -------------------
Patient.............................        2% -- 5%             5% -- 10%
Medicare and Medicaid...............       15% -- 20%           15% -- 20%
Physicians, Hospitals, Employers
and Other Monthly-Billed Payers.....       30% -- 35%           25% -- 30%
Third Party Fee-for-Service.........       30% -- 35%           40% -- 45%
Managed Care-Capitated..............       15% -- 20%            5% -- 10%

Customers

Physicians

     Physicians requiring testing for patients are the primary source of our
clinical laboratory testing volume. We typically bill physician accounts on a
fee-for-service basis. Fees billed to physicians are based on the laboratory's
client fee schedule and are typically negotiated. Fees billed to patients and
insurance companies are based on the laboratory's patient fee schedule, subject
to any limitations on fees negotiated with the insurance companies or with
physicians on behalf of their patients. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements are
based on fee schedules set by governmental authorities.

Managed Care Organizations and Other Insurance Providers

     Managed care organizations and other insurance providers, which typically
contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories for their members,
represent approximately one half of our total testing volumes and one half of
our net revenues. Larger managed care organizations and other insurance
providers typically prefer to use large independent clinical laboratories
because they can provide services on a national or regional basis and can manage
networks of local or regional laboratories. In addition, larger laboratories are
better able to achieve the low-cost structures necessary to profitably service
large managed care organizations and can provide test utilization data across
their various plans. In certain markets, such as California, managed care
organizations may delegate their covered members to independent physician
associations, which in turn contract with laboratories for clinical laboratory
services.

     While the growth in the number of patients participating in managed care
plans has slowed in recent years, over the last decade, the managed care
industry has been consolidating, resulting in fewer but larger managed care
organizations with significant bargaining power in negotiating fee arrangements
with healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. Managed care
organizations demand that clinical laboratory service providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated
payment contracts. Under capitated payment contracts, clinical laboratories
receive a fixed monthly fee per individual enrolled with the managed care
organization for all laboratory tests performed during the month regardless of
the number or cost of the tests actually performed. Some services, such as
various esoteric tests, new technologies and anatomic pathology services, may be
carved out from a capitated rate and, if carved out, are charged on a
fee-for-service basis.

     In the last several years, there has been a shift in the way major managed
care organizations contract with clinical laboratories. Managed care
organizations have begun to offer more freedom of choice to their affiliated
physicians, including greater freedom to determine which laboratory to use and
which tests to order. Accordingly, most of our agreements with major managed
care organizations are non-exclusive contracts. As a result, under these
non-exclusive arrangements, physicians have more freedom of choice in selecting
laboratories, and laboratories are likely to compete more on the basis of
service and quality rather than price alone. Also, managed care organizations
have been giving patients greater freedom of choice and patients have
increasingly been selecting plans (such as preferred provider organizations)
that offer a greater choice of providers. Pricing for these preferred provider
organizations is typically negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which
generally results in higher revenue per requisition than under a capitated fee
arrangement. Despite these trends, managed care organizations continue to
aggressively seek cost reductions in order to









keep their premiums to their customers competitive. If we are unable to agree on
pricing with a managed care organization, we would become a "non-participating"
provider and could then only bill the ordering physician or the patient rather
than the managed care organization. This "non-participating" status could lead
to loss of business since the physician is likely to refer testing to a
participating provider whose testing is covered by the patient's managed care
benefit plan. We cannot assure investors that we will continue to be successful
in negotiating contracts with major managed care organizations. Loss of multiple
major managed care agreements could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

     Quest Diagnostics offers QuestNet'TM', an innovative product to develop and
manage a customized network of clinical laboratory providers for managed care
organizations. Through QuestNet'TM', physicians and members are provided
multiple choices for clinical laboratory testing while managed care
organizations realize cost reductions under a single capitated arrangement.

Hospitals

     We provide services to hospitals throughout the United States that vary
from esoteric testing to helping manage their laboratories. We believe that we
are the industry's market leader in servicing hospitals. Testing for hospitals
accounts for approximately 12% of our net revenues. Hospitals generally maintain
an on-site laboratory to perform testing on patients and refer less frequently
needed and highly specialized procedures to outside laboratories, which
typically charge the hospitals on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. We believe
that most hospital laboratories perform approximately 90% to 95% of their
patients' clinical laboratory tests. In addition, many hospitals compete with
independent clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing.
Most physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals
as part of their medical practice. Many hospitals leverage their relationships
with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach
testing to the hospital's laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician
practices generally require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital's
affiliated laboratory. As a result, hospital-affiliated laboratories can be both
customers and competitors for independent clinical laboratories.

     During 2002, in conjunction with the acquisition of AML, we launched
dedicated sales and service teams focused on serving the unique needs of
hospital customers. We believe that the combination of full-service, bi-coastal
esoteric testing capabilities, medical and scientific professionals for
consultation, innovative connectivity products, focus on Six Sigma quality and
dedicated sales and service professionals positions us to be the partner of
choice for hospital customers.

     We have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated health delivery
networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture arrangements, which
provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for unaffiliated physicians
and other healthcare providers in their geographic areas, serve as our principal
laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have either a
majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management responsibilities for,
our hospital joint venture relationships. We also manage the laboratories at a
number of other hospitals.

Employers, Governmental Institutions and Other Clinical Laboratories

     We provide testing services to governmental agencies, including the
Department of Defense and state and federal prison systems, and to large
employers. We believe that we are the leading provider of clinical laboratory
testing to employers for substance abuse, occupational exposures, and
comprehensive wellness programs. Wellness programs enable employers to take an
active role in lowering their overall healthcare costs. Testing services for
employers account for approximately 4% of our net revenues. The volume of
testing services for employers, which generally have relatively low profit
margins, declined significantly during 2001 and 2002, driven by a general
slowing of the economy and a corresponding slowdown in hiring. We also perform
esoteric testing services for other independent clinical laboratories that do
not have the full range of our testing capabilities. All of these customers are
charged on a fee-for-service basis.

Consumers

     Consumers are becoming increasingly interested in managing their own health
and health records. Currently, almost all the testing we perform is ordered
directly by a physician, who then receives the test results. However, over time,
we believe that consumers will increasingly want to order clinical laboratory
tests themselves.









Sales and Marketing

     We market to and service our customers through our direct sales force sales
representatives, customer service and patient service representatives and
couriers.

     We focus our sales efforts on pursuing and keeping profitable accounts that
generate an acceptable return. We have an active account management process to
evaluate the profitability of all of our accounts. Where appropriate, we change
the service levels, terminate accounts that are not profitable, or adjust
pricing.

     Most sales representatives market routine laboratory services primarily to
physicians. Some sales representatives focus on particular market segments or on
testing niches. For example, some representatives concentrate on market segments
such as managed care organizations and others concentrate on testing niches such
as substance-abuse testing. During 2001, we created a team of sales
representatives who concentrate on gene-based and other esoteric testing. During
2002, following our acquisition of AML, we created a team of sales
representatives who are dedicated to sales to hospital clients and we increased
the number of sales representatives who concentrate on gene-based testing.

     Customer service representatives perform a number of services for patients
and customers. They monitor services, answer questions and help resolve
problems. Our couriers pick up specimens from most clients daily.

Strategic Growth Opportunities

     In addition to expanding our core clinical laboratory business through
internal growth and pursuing our strategy to become a leading provider of
medical information, we intend to continue to leverage our network in order to
capitalize on targeted growth opportunities both inside and outside our core
laboratory testing business.

     o    Gene-Based and Other Esoteric Tests: We intend to remain a leading
          innovator in the clinical laboratory industry by continuing to
          introduce new tests, technology and services. We estimate that the
          current United States market in esoteric testing, including gene-based
          testing, is $3 billion to $4 billion per year. We believe that we have
          the largest gene-based testing business in the United States, with
          approximately $400 million in annual net revenues, and that this
          business is growing by more than 20% per year. We believe that the
          unveiling of the human genome, the discovery of new genes and the
          linkages of these genes with disease will result in more complex and
          thorough predictive, diagnostic and therapeutic testing. We believe
          that we are well positioned to realize this growth. We intend to focus
          on commercializing diagnostic applications of discoveries in the areas
          of functional genomics (the analysis of genes and their functions),
          and proteomics (the discovery of new proteins made possible by the
          human genome project).

     o    Anatomic Pathology: While we are one of the leading providers of
          anatomic pathology services in the United States, we have
          traditionally been strongest in cytology, and specifically in the
          analysis of pap smears to detect cervical cancer. During the last
          several years, we have led the industry in converting approximately
          80% of our pap smear business to the use of monolayer technology for
          cervical cancer screening, a higher quality, and more profitable
          product offering. We intend to continue to expand our anatomic
          pathology business into higher growth segments, including histology
          (tissue pathology). We estimate that the current United States market
          for anatomic pathology services is approximately $6 billion per year.
          We estimate that cytology represents about $1 billion per year of this
          market, and that tissue pathology represents about $5 billion per year
          of this market. We generate approximately $400 million in net revenues
          from such services each year.

     o    Selective Regional Acquisitions: The clinical laboratory industry
          remains highly fragmented. We expect to continue to acquire other
          regional clinical laboratories that can be integrated with our
          existing laboratories, thereby enabling us to reduce costs and improve
          efficiencies through the elimination of redundant facilities and
          equipment, and reductions in personnel. (See "Recent Acquisitions" for
          a discussion of our recent acquisitions). We may also consider
          acquisitions of ancillary businesses as part of our overall growth
          strategy, such as our November 2001 acquisition of MedPlus Inc., which
          develops clinical connectivity products designed to enhance patient
          care (see "Connectivity Solutions").









     o    Connectivity Solutions: We continue to invest in the development and
          improvement of connectivity products for customers and providers by
          developing differentiated products that will provide friendlier,
          easier access to ordering and resulting of laboratory tests and
          patient-centric information. In February 2003, we launched our
          eMaxx'TM' Internet portal to physicians nationwide. The eMaxx'TM'
          Internet portal helps doctors order diagnostic tests and review
          laboratory results online, as well as check patients' insurance
          eligibility in real time and view clinical information from many
          sources. The eMaxx'TM' Internet portal is the gateway that physicians
          can now use to access our Internet-based Test Orders and Results
          On-Line service, which is experiencing acceptance in the marketplace
          today. This service will allow us to replace older technology desktop
          products that we currently provide to many physicians and thereby
          streamline our support structure. Demand has been growing for our
          electronic connectivity solutions as physician offices have expanded
          their usage of the Internet. By the end of 2002, we were receiving
          approximately 10% of all test orders and delivering about 15% of all
          test results via our secure on-line service.

          The eMaxx'TM' Internet portal was developed in conjunction with
          MedPlus, which we acquired in November 2001. MedPlus' ChartMaxx'TM'
          and E. Maxx'TM' patient record systems are designed to support the
          creation and management of electronic patient records, by bringing
          together in one patient-centric view information from various sources,
          including the physician's records and laboratory and hospital data. We
          intend to expand the services offered through our portal over time as
          other strategic arrangements are realized, which will enhance our
          ability to introduce a broad range of electronic services to
          healthcare providers.

Information Systems

     Information systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including laboratory testing, billing, customer service, logistics,
and management of medical data. Our success depends, in part, on the continued
and uninterrupted performance of our information technology (IT) systems.
Computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural
disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are
potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and
similar disruptive problems. We have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our systems. Sustained or repeated
system failures that interrupt our ability to process test orders, deliver test
results or perform tests in a timely manner could adversely affect our
reputation and result in a loss of customers and net revenues.

     During the 1980s and early 1990s when we acquired many of our laboratory
facilities, our regional laboratories were operated as local, decentralized
units, and we did not standardize their billing, laboratory, and some of their
other information systems. As a result, by the end of 1995 we had many different
information systems for billing, test results reporting, and other transactions.
Over time, the growth in the size and network of our customers and the
increasing complexity of billing demonstrated a greater need for standardized
systems.

     During 2002, we began implementation of a standard laboratory information
system and a standard billing system. We expect that deployment of the
standardized systems will take several years to complete and will result in
significantly more centralized systems than we have today. We expect the
integration of these systems will improve operating efficiency and provide
management with more timely and comprehensive information with which to make
management decisions. However, failure to properly implement this
standardization process could materially adversely impact us. During system
conversions of this type, workflow may be re-engineered to take advantage of
enhanced system capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service.
In addition, the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and
master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks which
need to be managed carefully.

Billing

     Billing for laboratory services is complicated. Laboratories must bill
various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid,
doctors and employer groups, all of which have different requirements.
Additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as
well as internal compliance policies and procedures add further complexity to
the billing process. Among many other factors complicating billing are:

     o    pricing differences between our fee schedules and the reimbursement
          rates of the payers;

     o    disputes with payers as to which party is responsible for payment; and









     o    disparity in coverage and information requirements among various
          payers.

     We incur significant additional costs as a result of our participation in
Medicare and Medicaid programs, as billing and reimbursement for clinical
laboratory testing is subject to considerable and complex federal and state
regulations. These additional costs include those related to: (1) complexity
added to our billing processes; (2) training and education of our employees and
customers; (3) compliance and legal costs; and (4) costs related to, among other
factors, medical necessity denials and advanced beneficiary notices. Compliance
with applicable laws and regulations, as well as internal compliance policies
and procedures, adds further complexity and costs to the billing process.
Changes in laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to bill our
clients. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS (formerly the
Health Care Financing Administration), establishes procedures and continuously
evaluates and implements changes in the reimbursement process.

     We believe that most of our bad debt expense, which was 5.3% of our net
revenues in 2002, is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing
information on requisitions received from healthcare providers rather than
credit related issues. In general, we perform the requested tests and report
test results regardless of whether the billing information is incorrect or
missing. We subsequently attempt to contact the provider to obtain any missing
information and rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect
information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process,
creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of
accounts receivable. When all issues relating to the missing or incorrect
information are not resolved in a timely manner, the related receivables are
written-off to the allowance for doubtful accounts.

     We have implemented "best practices" for billing that have significantly
reduced the percentage of requisitions with missing billing information from
approximately 16% at the beginning of 1996 to approximately 5% in 2002. These
initiatives, together with our Six Sigma and Standardization initiatives and
progress in dealing with Medicare medical necessity documentation requirements,
have significantly reduced bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues from
about 7% during 1996 to 5.3% during 2002. We believe that in the longer term,
with a continuing focus on process discipline, bad debt as a percentage of net
revenues can be reduced to 4% or less (see "Regulation of Reimbursement for
Clinical Laboratory Services").

Competition

     The clinical laboratory testing business remains fragmented and highly
competitive. We compete with three types of providers: hospital-affiliated
laboratories, other independent clinical laboratories, and physician-office
laboratories. We are the leading clinical laboratory provider in the United
States, with net revenues of $4.1 billion during 2002, and facilities in
substantially all of the country's major metropolitan areas. Our largest
competitor is LabCorp. In addition, we compete with, and service, many smaller
regional and local independent clinical laboratories, as well as laboratories
owned by physicians and hospitals (see "Payers and Customers - Customers").

     We believe that healthcare providers consider a number of factors when
selecting a laboratory, including:

     o    service capability and quality;

     o    accuracy, timeliness and consistency in reporting test results;

     o    number and type of tests performed by the laboratory;

     o    number, convenience and geographic coverage of patient service
          centers;

     o    reputation in the medical community; and

     o    pricing.

     We believe that we compete favorably in each of these areas.

     We believe that large independent clinical laboratories may be able to
increase their share of the overall clinical laboratory testing market due to
their large service networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should
enable larger clinical laboratories to more effectively serve large customers,
including managed care organizations. In addition, we believe that consolidation
in the clinical laboratory testing business will continue. However, a majority
of the clinical laboratory testing is likely to continue to be performed by
hospitals, which generally have affiliations with community









physicians that refer testing to us (see "Payers and Customers - Customers -
Hospitals"). As a result of these affiliations, we compete against
hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability
and quality as well as other non-pricing factors. Our failure to provide service
superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could
negatively impact our net revenues.

     Advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective
tests that can be performed outside of an independent clinical laboratory such
as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices
and (2) home testing that can be performed by patients or by physicians in their
offices. Development of such technology and its use by our customers would
reduce the demand for our laboratory testing services and negatively impact our
revenues (see "Regulation of Clinical Laboratory Operations").

Quality Assurance

     Our goal is to continually improve the processes for collection, storage
and transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy
of analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus on
proficiency testing, process audits, statistical process control and personnel
training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We are
implementing the Six Sigma approach to help achieve our goal of becoming
recognized as the undisputed quality leader in the healthcare services industry.

     Internal Proficiency Testing, Quality Control and Audits. Quality control
samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient specimens. The
results of tests on quality control samples are then monitored to identify
trends, biases or imprecision in the analytical processes. In addition, we
administer an internal proficiency testing program, where proficiency testing
samples are processed through our systems the same way as are routine patient
specimens. We also perform internal process audits as part of our comprehensive
Quality Assurance program.

     External Proficiency Testing and Accreditation. All our laboratories
participate in various quality surveillance programs conducted externally. They
include proficiency testing programs administered by the College of American
Pathologists, or CAP, as well as some state agencies.

     CAP is an independent, non-governmental organization of board certified
pathologists. CAP is approved by the CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to
determine compliance with the standards required by the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CAP offers an accreditation program
to which laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional
laboratories are accredited by the CAP. Accreditation includes on-site
inspections and participation in the CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing
program.

Regulation of Clinical Laboratory Operations

     The clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant federal and
state regulation, including inspections and audits by governmental agencies.
Governmental authorities may impose fines or criminal penalties or take other
enforcement actions to enforce laws and regulations, including revoking a
clinical laboratory's right to conduct business. Changes in regulation may
increase the costs of performing clinical laboratory tests or increase the
administrative requirements of claims.

     CLIA and State Regulation. All of our laboratories and patient service
centers are licensed and accredited by applicable federal and state agencies.
CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring they be
certified by the federal government to ensure that all clinical laboratory
testing services are uniformly accurate, reliable and timely. CLIA permits
states to adopt regulations that are more stringent than federal law. For
example, state laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality
control, record maintenance and proficiency testing. Currently, most of our
clinical laboratory testing is categorized as "high" or "moderate" complexity,
and therefore subject to extensive and costly regulation under CLIA. The cost
of compliance with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to
operate clinical laboratories in their offices. However, manufacturers of
laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by
marketing point-of-care laboratory equipment to physicians and by selling
test kits approved for home use to both physicians and patients. Diagnostic
tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to
be "waived" tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight as well as by patients in
their homes.









     Drug Testing. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration, or SAMHSA, regulates drug testing for public sector employees
and employees of certain federally regulated businesses. SAMHSA has established
detailed performance and quality standards that laboratories must meet to
perform drug testing on federal employees and contractors and other regulated
entities. All laboratories that perform such testing must be certified as
meeting SAMHSA standards.

     Controlled Substances. The federal Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA,
regulates access to controlled substances used to perform drugs of abuse
testing. Laboratories that use controlled substances are licensed by the DEA.

     Medical Waste, Hazardous Waste and Radioactive Materials. Clinical
laboratories are also subject to federal, state and local regulations relating
to the handling and disposal of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and
radioactive materials. We generally use outside vendors to dispose of specimens.

     FDA. The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits,
reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories and has taken
responsibility from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, for
test classification. In the past, the FDA has claimed regulatory authority over
laboratory-developed tests, but has exercised enforcement discretion in not
regulating tests performed by CLIA-certified laboratories. In December 2000, the
Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, Secretary's Advisory Committee
on Genetic Testing recommended that the FDA regulate laboratory developed
genetic testing. In late 2002, a new HHS Secretary's Advisory Committee on
Genetics, Health and Society was appointed to replace the prior Advisory
Committee, but it has not yet met or made any recommendations. In the meantime,
the FDA continues to consider whether to regulate laboratory developed genetic
testing. Representatives of clinical laboratories (including Quest Diagnostics)
and the American Clinical Laboratory Association (the industry's trade
association) have met with two branches of the FDA to address their respective
issues pertaining to regulation of genetic testing in general and issues with
regard to premarket approval of the analyte specific reagents used in
laboratory-developed HIV Genotype tests in particular. We expect those
discussions to continue. FDA regulation of laboratory-developed genetic testing
could lead to increased costs and delay in introducing new genetic tests.

     Occupational Safety. The federal Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, or OSHA, has established extensive requirements relating
specifically to workplace safety for healthcare employers. This includes
protecting workers from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and
hepatitis B and C, and requiring employers to develop a program to reduce or
eliminate needle stick injuries such as through the use of safety needles.

     Specimen Transportation. Transportation of infectious substances such as
clinical laboratory specimens is subject to regulation by the Department of
Transportation, the Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service
and the International Civil Aviation Organization.

     Corporate Practice of Medicine. Many states, including several in which our
principal laboratories are located, prohibit corporations from engaging in the
practice of medicine. The corporate practice of medicine doctrine has been
interpreted to prohibit corporations from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on the corporation's behalf. These
restrictions may affect our ability to provide services directly to consumers.

Privacy and Security of Health Information; Standard Transactions

     Pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, or HIPAA, on December 28, 2000, the Secretary of HHS issued final
regulations that would establish comprehensive federal privacy standards with
respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health information by health
plans, healthcare providers or healthcare data clearinghouses. The regulations
establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:

     o    the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of protected health
          information are permitted or required without a specific authorization
          by the patient;

     o    a patient's rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of the
          disclosures and uses of protected health information;

     o    the content of notices of privacy practices for protected health
          information; and

     o    administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities
          that use or receive protected health information.









     The federal healthcare privacy regulations establish a "floor" and do not
supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, we are required to
comply with both federal privacy standards and varying state privacy laws. In
addition, for healthcare data transfers relating to citizens of other countries,
we will need to comply with the laws of other countries. The federal privacy
regulations became effective in April 2001 for healthcare providers, who have
until April 2003 to comply. In March 2002, HHS issued a notice of proposed
rulemaking to modify the final privacy standards and a final rule modifying the
privacy standards was published on August 14, 2002. In addition, final standards
for electronic transactions were issued in August 2000 and became effective in
October 2002, although covered entities were eligible to obtain a one year
extension if approved through an application to the Secretary of HHS, that
includes a plan for achieving compliance by October 16, 2003. We received from
HHS a one-year extension through October 16, 2003. The regulation on electronic
transactions provide uniform standards for code sets (billing codes representing
medical procedures, such as laboratory tests, and diagnosis codes, which are
used, among others, in connection with the identification and billing of medical
procedures and laboratory tests), electronic claims, remittance advice,
enrollment, eligibility and other electronic transactions. Finally, the security
and electronic signature regulations were published on February 20, 2003 and
will become effective on April 21, 2003, although healthcare providers have
until April 21, 2005 to comply. HIPAA provides for significant fines and other
penalties for wrongful disclosure of protected health information. We have
completed our analyses and are engaged in finalizing our standard operating
procedures and policies for implementation in 2003. Compliance with the HIPAA
requirements, when finalized, will require significant capital and personnel
resources from all healthcare organizations, including Quest Diagnostics. These
regulations, when effective, will likely restrict our ability to use our
laboratory database to provide medical information for purposes other than
payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for
disclosures for various public policy purposes outlined in the final privacy
standards and information that does not specifically identify a patient.

Regulation of Reimbursement for Clinical Laboratory Services

     Overview. The healthcare industry has experienced significant changes in
reimbursement practices during the past several years. Governmental payers, such
as Medicare (which principally serves patients 65 years and older) and Medicaid
(which principally serves indigent patients), as well as private insurers and
large employers, have taken steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery
of healthcare services. Principally as a result of reimbursement reductions and
measures adopted by CMS to reduce utilization described below, the percentage of
our aggregate net revenues derived from Medicare and Medicaid programs declined
from approximately 20% in 1995 to approximately 15% in 2002. While the total
cost to comply with Medicare administrative requirements is disproportionate to
our cost to bill other payers, average Medicare reimbursement rates approximate
the Company's overall average reimbursement rate from all payers, making this
business generally less profitable. However, we believe that our other business
may significantly depend on continued participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, because many customers may want a single laboratory to perform all of
their clinical laboratory testing services, regardless of whether reimbursements
are ultimately made by themselves, Medicare, Medicaid or other payers.

     Billing and reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing is subject to
significant and complex federal and state regulation. Penalties for violations
of laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs and for violations of
federal fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion from participation in
Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal
penalties and fines; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate some or all of a clinical laboratory's
business. Civil monetary penalties for a wide range of violations are not more
than $10,000 per violation plus three times the amount claimed and, in the case
of kickback violations, not more than $50,000 per violation plus up to three
times the amount of remuneration involved. A parallel civil remedy under the
federal False Claims Act provides for damages not more than $11,000 per
violation plus up to three times the amount claimed.

     Reduced Reimbursements. In 1984, Congress established a Medicare fee
schedule payment methodology for clinical laboratory services performed for
patients covered under Part B of the Medicare program. Congress then imposed a
national ceiling on the amount that carriers could pay under their local
Medicare fee schedules. Since then, Congress has periodically reduced the
national ceilings. The Medicare national fee schedule limitations were reduced
in 1996 to 76% of the 1984 national median of the local fee schedules and in
1998 to 74% of the 1984 national median. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997
eliminated the provision for annual fee schedule increases based on the consumer
price index from 1998 through 2002. However, a 1.1% increase based on the
consumer price index became effective on January 1, 2003. The limitation amount
for new clinical laboratory tests as determined by the Secretary of HHS, for
which no limitation amount has previously been established, is 100% of the
median of all the fee schedules established for that test.









     Pathology services are reimbursed by Medicare based on a resource-based
relative value scale ("RBRVS") that is periodically updated by CMS. Less than 1%
of our aggregate net revenues are derived from pathology services reimbursed by
Medicare based on RBRVS.

     Laboratories must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the
carrier's fee schedule amount as payment in full for most tests performed on
behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, state Medicaid programs are
prohibited from paying more (and in most instances, pay significantly less) than
Medicare. Major clinical laboratories, including Quest Diagnostics, typically
use two fee schedules:

     o    "Client" fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions to
          which a laboratory supplies services on a wholesale basis and which
          are billed on a monthly basis. These fees are generally subject to
          negotiation or discount.

     o    "Patient" fees charged to individual patients and third-party payers,
          like Medicare and Medicaid. These generally require separate bills for
          each requisition.

     The fee schedule amounts established by Medicare are typically
substantially lower than patient fees otherwise charged by us, but are sometimes
higher than our fees actually charged to certain other clients. During 1992, the
Office of the Inspector General, or OIG, of the HHS issued final regulations
that prohibited charging Medicare fees substantially in excess of a provider's
usual charges. The OIG, however, declined to provide any guidance concerning
interpretation of these rules, including whether or not discounts to
non-governmental clients and payers or the dual-fee structure might be
inconsistent with these rules.

     A proposed rule released in September 1997 would have authorized the OIG to
exclude providers from participation in the Medicare program, including clinical
laboratories, that charge Medicare and other programs fees that are
"substantially in excess of . . . usual charges . . . to any of [their]
customers, clients or patients." This proposal was withdrawn by the OIG in 1998.
In November 1999, the OIG issued an advisory opinion which indicated that a
clinical laboratory offering discounts on client bills may violate the "usual
charges" regulation if the "charge to Medicare substantially exceeds the amount
the laboratory most frequently charges or has contractually agreed to accept
from non-Federal payers." The OIG subsequently issued a letter clarifying that
the usual charges regulation is not a blanket prohibition on discounts to
private pay customers.

     The 1997 Balanced Budget Act permits CMS to adjust statutorily prescribed
fees for some medical services, including clinical laboratory services, if the
fees are "grossly excessive." In December 2002, CMS issued an interim final rule
setting forth a process and factors for establishing a "realistic and equitable"
payment amount for all Medicare Part B services (except physician services and
services paid under a prospective payment system) when the existing payment
amounts are determined to be inherently unreasonable. Payment amounts may be
considered unreasonable because they are either grossly excessive or deficient.
We cannot provide any assurances to investors that fees payable by Medicare
could not be reduced as a result of the application of this rule or that the
government might not assert claims for reimbursement by purporting to
retroactively apply this rule or the OIG interpretation concerning "usual
charges."

     Currently, there are no Medicare co-insurance or co-payments required for
clinical laboratory testing. When co-insurance was last in effect in 1984,
clinical laboratories received from Medicare carriers only 80% of the Medicare
allowed amount and were required to bill Medicare beneficiaries for the unpaid
balance of the Medicare allowed amount. If enacted, a co-insurance proposal
could adversely affect the revenues of the clinical laboratory industry,
including us, by exposing the testing laboratory to the credit of individuals
and by increasing the number of bills. In addition, a laboratory could be
subject to potential fraud and abuse violations if adequate procedures to bill
and collect the co-insurance payments are not established and followed.

     Reduced Utilization of Clinical Laboratory Testing. In recent years, CMS
has taken several steps to reduce utilization of clinical laboratory testing.
Since 1995, Medicare carriers have adopted policies under which they do not pay
for many commonly ordered clinical tests unless the ordering physician has
provided an appropriate diagnostic code supporting the medical necessity of the
test. Physicians are required by law to provide diagnostic information when they
order clinical tests for Medicare and Medicaid patients. However, CMS has not
prescribed any penalty for physicians who fail to provide diagnostic information
to laboratories.

     We are generally permitted to bill patients directly for some statutorily
excluded clinical laboratory services. We are also generally permitted to bill
patients for clinical laboratory tests that Medicare does not pay for due to
"medical necessity" limitations (these tests include limited coverage tests for
which a carrier-approved diagnosis code is not









provided by the ordering physician and certain tests ordered at a frequency
greater than covered by Medicare) if the patient signs an advance beneficiary
notice ("ABN") under which the patient makes an informed decision as to whether
to personally assume financial liability for laboratory tests which are likely
to be not covered by Medicare because they are deemed to be not medically
necessary. We do not have any direct contact with most of these patients and, in
such cases, cannot control the proper use of the ABN by the physician or the
physician's office staff. If the ABN is not timely completed or is not completed
properly, we end up performing tests that we cannot subsequently bill to the
patient if they are not reimbursable by Medicare. In 2002, CMS adopted a
standard, CMS-approved ABN form. Because the new form is longer and more complex
than the format previously used by most laboratories, adoption of the new ABN
form could result in even fewer valid ABNs and consequently prevent us from
billing additional beneficiaries for services denied by Medicare for lack of
medical necessity.

     Inconsistent Practices. Currently, many different local carriers administer
Medicare. They have inconsistent policies on matters such as: (1) test coverage;
(2) automated chemistry panels; (3) diagnosis coding; (4) claims documentation;
and (5) fee schedules (subject to the national limitations). Inconsistent
regulation has increased the complexity of the billing process for clinical
laboratories. As part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, HHS was required to adopt
uniform policies on the above matters by January 1, 1999, and replace the
current local carriers with no more than five regional carriers. Although HHS
has finalized a number of uniform policies, it has not taken any final action to
replace the local carriers with five regional carriers. However, in November
2000, CMS published a solicitation in the Commerce Business Daily seeking two
contractors to process Part B clinical laboratory claims. In the solicitation,
CMS stated that the Secretary has decided to limit the number of carriers
processing clinical diagnostic laboratory test claims to two contractors. The
solicitation indicated that the Request for Proposal would be released on
or before December 31, 2000 but as of February 2003, it had not been issued; the
solicitation did not indicate the effective date for a final transition to the
regional carrier model. We are not aware of any plans by CMS to transition to
fewer regional carriers for laboratory services despite the legislative mandate
of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act.

     CMS plans to achieve standardization in part through implementing a single
claims processing system for all carriers. This initiative, however, was
suspended due to CMS's Year 2000 compliance priorities.

     Competitive Bidding. The 1997 Balanced Budget Act requires CMS to conduct
five Medicare bidding demonstrations involving various types of medical services
and complete them by 2002. CMS is expected to include a clinical laboratory
demonstration project in a metropolitan statistical area as part of the
legislative mandate. Florida has issued a proposal for competitive bidding for
its Medicaid program. If competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or
national basis for clinical laboratory testing, it could materially adversely
affect the clinical laboratory industry and us.

     Future Legislation. Future changes in federal, state and local regulations
(or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting governmental
reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing could adversely affect us. We
cannot predict, however, whether and what type of legislative proposals will be
enacted into law or what regulations will be adopted by regulatory authorities.

     Fraud and Abuse Regulations. Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws
prohibit clinical laboratories from making payments or furnishing other benefits
to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or other federal
programs. As noted above, the penalties for violation of these laws may include
criminal and civil fines and penalties and/or suspension or exclusion from
participation in federal programs. Many of the anti-fraud statutes and
regulations, including those relating to joint ventures and alliances, are vague
or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. We cannot predict if
some of the fraud and abuse rules will be interpreted contrary to our practices.

     In November 1999, the OIG issued an advisory opinion concluding that the
industry practice of discounting client bills may constitute a kickback if the
discounted price is below a laboratory's overall cost (including overhead) and
below the amounts reimbursed by Medicare. Advisory opinions are not binding but
may be indicative of the position that prosecutors may take in enforcement
actions. The OIG's opinion, if enforced, could result in fines and possible
exclusion and could require us to eliminate offering discounts to clients below
the rates reimbursed by Medicare. The OIG subsequently issued a letter
clarifying that it did not intend to imply that discounts are a per se violation
of the federal anti-kickback statute, but may merit further investigation
depending on the facts and circumstances presented.

     In addition, since 1992, a federal anti-"self-referral" law, commonly known
as the "Stark" law, prohibits, with certain exceptions, Medicare payments for
laboratory tests referred by physicians who have, personally or through a family
member, an investment interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the
testing laboratory. Since January 1995, these restrictions have also applied to
Medicaid-covered services. Many states have similar anti-"self-referral" and









other laws that also affect investment and compensation arrangements with
physicians who refer other than government-reimbursed laboratory testing to us.
We cannot predict if some of the state laws will be interpreted contrary to our
practices.

Government Investigations and Related Claims

     We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and
local laws and regulations. We believe that, based on our experience with
government settlements and public announcements by various government officials,
the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare fraud.
In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give
federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and
remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. While we believe that we are in
material compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable
to us, including those relating to billing and reimbursement of tests and those
relating to relationships with physicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite
and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied
by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could
require us to make changes in our operations, including our billing practices.
If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to
participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare
programs.

     During the mid-1990s, Quest Diagnostics and SBCL settled government claims
that primarily involved industry-wide billing and marketing practices that both
companies believed to be lawful. The aggregate amount of the settlements for
these claims exceeded $500 million. The federal or state governments may bring
additional claims based on new theories as to our practices that we believe to
be in compliance with law. The federal government has substantial leverage in
negotiating settlements since the amount of potential fines far exceeds the
rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding
a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, which represented approximately 15% of our net revenues during 2002.

     Although management believes that established reserves for claims are
sufficient, it is possible that additional information may become available that
may cause the final resolution of these matters to exceed established reserves
by an amount which could be material to our results of operations and cash flows
in the period in which such claims are settled. We do not believe that these
issues will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition.
However, we understand that there may be pending qui tam claims brought by
former employees or other "whistle blowers" as to which we have not been
provided with a copy of the complaint and accordingly cannot determine the
extent of any potential liability.

     As an integral part of our compliance program discussed below, we
investigate all reported or suspected failures to comply with federal healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any non-compliance that results in Medicare or
Medicaid overpayments is reported to the government and reimbursed by us. As a
result of these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported
overpayments. While we have reimbursed these overpayments and have taken
corrective action where appropriate, we cannot assure investors that in each
instance the government will necessarily accept these actions as sufficient.

Compliance Program

     Compliance with all government rules and regulations has become a
significant concern throughout the clinical laboratory industry because of
evolving interpretations of regulations and the national debate over healthcare.
We began a compliance program early in 1993.

     We emphasize the development of training programs intended to ensure the
strict implementation and observance of all applicable laws, regulations and
company policies. Further, we conduct in-depth reviews of procedures, personnel
and facilities to assure regulatory compliance throughout our operations. The
Quality, Safety and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors requires
periodic reporting of compliance operations from management. In October 1996, we
signed a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the OIG that expired in
October 2001.

     We believe we comply in all material respects with all applicable statutes
and regulations. However, we cannot assure you that no statutes or regulations
will be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial
authority in a manner that would adversely affect us. Potential sanctions for
violation of these statutes include significant damages, penalties, and fines,
exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorization necessary to operate some or
all of our business.









Insurance

     As a general matter, providers of clinical laboratory testing services may
be subject to lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These
suits could involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability
litigation could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation.
We maintain various liability insurance programs for claims that could result
from providing or failing to provide clinical laboratory testing services,
including inaccurate testing results and other exposures. Our insurance coverage
limits our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims. The basis for claims
reserves incorporates actuarially determined losses based upon our historical
and projected loss experience. Management believes that present insurance
coverage and reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures, but
we cannot assure you that we will not incur liabilities in excess of recorded
reserves. Similarly, although we believe that we will be able to obtain adequate
insurance coverage in the future at acceptable costs, we cannot assure you that
we will be able to do so.

Employees

     At December 31, 2002 and 2001, we employed approximately 33,400 and 29,000
people, respectively. These totals exclude employees of the joint ventures where
we do not have a majority interest. Unilab, which we acquired in February 2003,
had approximately 4,100 employees at December 31, 2002. We have no collective
bargaining agreements with any unions, and we believe that our overall relations
with our employees are good.









    CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE
                PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

     Some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate
solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words
such as "may", "believe", "will", "expect", "project", "estimate", "anticipate",
"plan" or "continue". These forward-looking statements are based on our current
plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties
that could significantly cause our plans and expectations, including actual
results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Litigation Reform Act") provides a
"safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to
provide prospective information about their companies without fear of
litigation.

     We would like to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the
Litigation Reform Act in connection with the forward-looking statements included
in this document. Investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such
forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this
document. The following important factors could cause our actual financial
results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us
in forward-looking statements:

     (a)  Heightened competition, including increased pricing pressure,
          competition from hospitals for testing for non-patients and
          competition from physicians. See "Business - Competition."

     (b)  Impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from traditional,
          fee-for-service medicine to capitated managed-cost healthcare. See
          "Business - Payers and Customers - Customers - Managed Care
          Organizations and Other Insurance Providers."

     (c)  Adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including
          unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us and an increase in
          the practice of negotiating for exclusive contracts that involve
          aggressively priced capitated payments by managed care organizations.
          See "Business - Regulation of Reimbursement for Clinical Laboratory
          Services" and "Business - Payers and Customers - Customers - Managed
          Care Organizations and Other Insurance Providers."

     (d)  The impact upon our volume and collected revenue or general or
          administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with Medicare
          and Medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party
          payers. These include:

          (1)  the requirements of Medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes
               for many commonly ordered tests and the likelihood that
               third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements;

          (2)  the policy of CMS to limit Medicare reimbursement for tests
               contained in automated chemistry panels to the amount that would
               have been paid if only the covered tests, determined on the basis
               of demonstrable "medical necessity", had been ordered;

          (3)  continued inconsistent practices among the different local
               carriers administering Medicare; and

          (4)  recent changes by CMS to the advanced beneficiary notice form.

          See "Business - Regulation of Reimbursement for Clinical Laboratory
          Services" and "Business - Billing."

     (e)  Adverse results from pending or future government investigations or
          private actions. These include, in particular significant monetary
          damages and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs
          and/or other significant litigation matters. See "Business -
          Government Investigations and Related Claims."

     (f)  Failure to obtain new customers at profitable pricing or failure to
          retain existing customers, and reduction in tests ordered or specimens
          submitted by existing customers.

     (g)  Failure to efficiently integrate acquired clinical laboratory
          businesses, including Unilab and AML, or to efficiently integrate
          clinical laboratory businesses from joint ventures and alliances with
          hospitals, and the costs related to any such integration, or to retain
          key technical and management personnel. See "Business - Recent
          Acquisitions."









     (h)  Inability to obtain professional liability or other insurance coverage
          or a material increase in premiums for such coverage. See "Business -
          Insurance."

     (i)  Denial of CLIA certification or other license for any of Quest
          Diagnostics' clinical laboratories under the CLIA standards, by CMS
          for Medicare and Medicaid programs or other federal, state and local
          agencies. See "Business - Regulation of Clinical Laboratory
          Operations."

     (j)  Increased federal or state regulation of independent clinical
          laboratories, including regulation by the FDA.

     (k)  Inability to achieve expected synergies from the acquisition of Unilab
          and AML. See "Business - Recent Acquisitions."

     (l)  Inability to achieve additional benefits from our Six Sigma and
          Standardization initiatives.

     (m)  Adverse publicity and news coverage about us or the clinical
          laboratory industry.

     (n)  Computer or other system failures that affect our ability to perform
          tests, report test results or properly bill customers, including
          potential failures resulting from systems conversions, including from
          the integration of the systems of Quest Diagnostics, SBCL, AML and
          Unilab, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as
          electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. See
          "Business - Information Systems" and "Business - Billing."

     (o)  Development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of
          laboratory medicine, including technology changes that lead to the
          development of more cost-effective tests such as (1) point-of-care
          tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices and (2)
          home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of
          clinical laboratories. See "Business - Competition" and "Business -
          Regulation of Clinical Laboratory Operations."

     (p)  Issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or
          others that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to
          develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business.

     (q)  Development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be
          able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or
          our trade secrets by competitors, any of which could negatively affect
          our competitive position.

     (r)  Development of an Internet-based electronic commerce business model
          that does not require an extensive logistics and laboratory network.

     (s)  The impact of the privacy and security regulations issued under HIPAA
          on our operations (including its medical information services) as well
          as the cost to comply with the regulations. See "Business - Privacy
          and Security of Health Information; Standard Transactions."

     (t)  Changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from
          Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investor Services causing an unfavorable
          impact on our cost of and access to capital.

     (u)  An ability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the
          services of one or more of our key senior management personnel.

     (v)  Terrorist and other criminal activities, which could affect our
          customers, transportation or power systems, or our facilities, and for
          which insurance may not adequately reimburse us for.









Item 2. Properties

     Our principal laboratories (listed alphabetically by state) are located in
or near the following metropolitan areas. In certain areas (indicated by the
number (2)), we have two principal laboratories as a result of recent
acquisitions.

Location                                         Leased or Owned
- --------                                         ---------------
Phoenix, Arizona                             Leased by Joint Venture
Los Angeles, California (2)                   One owned, one leased
Sacramento, California                               Leased
San Diego, California                                Leased
San Francisco, California (2)                 One owned, one leased
San Juan Capistrano, California                       Owned
Denver, Colorado                                     Leased
New Haven, Connecticut                                Owned
Washington, D.C. (Chantilly, Virginia)               Leased
Miami, Florida (2)                            One owned, one leased
Tampa, Florida                                        Owned
Atlanta, Georgia                                      Owned
Chicago, Illinois (2)                         One owned, one leased
Indianapolis, Indiana                        Leased by Joint Venture
Lexington, Kentucky                                   Owned
New Orleans, Louisiana                                Owned
Baltimore, Maryland                                   Owned
Boston, Massachusetts                                Leased
Detroit, Michigan                                    Leased
St. Louis, Missouri                                   Owned
Las Vegas, Nevada                                     Owned
New York, New York (Teterboro, New Jersey)            Owned
Long Island, New York                                Leased
Dayton, Ohio                                 Leased by Joint Venture
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                      Leased by Joint Venture
Portland, Oregon                                     Leased
Erie, Pennsylvania                           Leased by Joint Venture
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                           Leased
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania                             Leased
Nashville, Tennessee                                 Leased
Dallas, Texas                                        Leased
Houston, Texas                                       Leased
Seattle, Washington                                  Leased

     Our executive offices are located at an owned facility in Teterboro, New
Jersey and at a leased facility in Lyndhurst, New Jersey. We also lease a site
in Norristown, Pennsylvania, that serves as a billing center; a site in West
Norriton, Pennsylvania that serves as our national data center; a site in San
Clemente, California that serves as the main facility for Nichols Institute
Diagnostics; and a site in Cincinnati that serves as the main office of MedPlus.
We also lease under a capital lease an administrative office in Collegeville,
Pennsylvania. We own our laboratory facility in Mexico City and lease laboratory
facilities in San Juan, Puerto Rico and near London, England. We believe that,
in general, our laboratory facilities are suitable and adequate for our current
and anticipated future levels of operation. We believe that if we were unable to
renew a lease on any of our testing facilities, we could find alternative space
at competitive market rates and relocate our operations to such new location.









Item 3. Legal Proceedings

     In addition to the investigations described in "Business-Government
Investigations and Related Claims," we are involved in various legal proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of the proceedings against us
involve claims that are substantial in amount. Although we cannot predict the
outcome of such proceedings or any claims made against us, we do not anticipate
that the ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or claims will have a
material adverse effect on our financial position.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

                                      None.









                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

     Our common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "DGX." The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the
high and low sales price per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Consolidated Tape (all prices have been restated to reflect the two-for-one
stock split effected on May 31, 2001 - See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements):

                  High      Low
                  ----      ---

First Quarter     70.47    36.60
Second Quarter    75.75    42.15
Third Quarter     75.50    48.10
Fourth Quarter    72.27    55.02

First Quarter     84.10    66.00
Second Quarter    96.14    79.25
Third Quarter     85.31    51.29
Fourth Quarter    66.99    49.09

     As of February 28, 2003, we had approximately 6,200 record holders of our
common stock.

     We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do
not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable
future.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

     See page 33.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

     See page 35.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     See Item 15 (a) 1 and 2.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure

     None.









                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Information concerning the directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference to the information in the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed on or
before April 30, 2003 (the "Proxy Statement") appearing under the caption
"Election of Directors."

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Officers of the Company are elected annually by the Board of Directors and
hold office at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The following persons
serve as executive officers of the Company:

     Kenneth W. Freeman (52) is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company. Mr. Freeman joined the Company in May 1995 as President
and Chief Executive Officer, was elected a Director in July 1995 and was elected
Chairman of the Board in December 1996. Prior to 1995, he served in a variety of
financial and managerial positions at Corning, which he joined in 1972. He was
elected Controller and a Vice President of Corning in 1985, Senior Vice
President in 1987, General Manager of the Science Products Division in 1989 and
Executive Vice President in 1993. He was appointed President and Chief Executive
Officer of Corning Asahi Video Products Company in 1990.

     Surya N. Mohapatra, Ph.D. (53) is President and Chief Operating Officer and
a Director of the Company. Prior to joining the Company in February 1999 as
Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, he was Senior Vice President
of Picker International, a worldwide leader in advanced medical imaging
technologies, where he served in various executive positions during his 18-year
tenure. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer in
June 1999.

     Robert A. Hagemann (46) is Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He
joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc., in 1992, where he held a variety of senior
financial positions before being named Vice President and Corporate Controller
of the Company in 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Hagemann was employed
by Prime Hospitality, Inc. and Crompton & Knowles, Inc. in senior financial
positions. He was also previously associated with Ernst & Young. Mr. Hagemann
assumed his present responsibilities in August 1998.

     Gerald C. Marrone (60) is Senior Vice President, Administration. Mr.
Marrone joined the Company in November 1997 as Chief Information Officer, after
12 years with Citibank, N.A. While at Citibank, he was most recently Vice
President, Division Executive for Citibank's Global Production Support Division,
and was also the Chief Information Officer of Citibank's Global Cash Management
business. Prior to joining Citibank, he was the Chief Information Officer for
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York for five years.

     Michael E. Prevoznik (41) is Vice President for Legal and Compliance and
General Counsel. Prior to joining SBCL in 1994 as its Chief Legal Compliance
Officer, Mr. Prevoznik was with Dechert Price & Rhodes. In 1996, he became Vice
President and Chief Legal Compliance Officer for SmithKline Beecham Healthcare
Services. In 1998, he was appointed Vice President, Compliance for SmithKline
Beecham, assuming additional responsibilities for coordinating all compliance
activities within SmithKline Beecham worldwide. Mr. Prevoznik assumed his
current responsibilities with the Company in August 1999.

     David M. Zewe (51) is Senior Vice President, Diagnostics Testing Services.
He leads the newly-formed Hospital Business Team and oversees diagnostic testing
operations company-wide, including physician, hospital, international and drugs
of abuse testing. Mr. Zewe joined the Company in 1994 as General Manager of the
Philadelphia regional laboratory, became Regional Vice President Sales and
Marketing for the mid-Atlantic region in August 1996, became Vice President,
Revenue Services in August 1999 leading the billing function company-wide and
became Senior Vice President, U.S. Operations in January 2001, responsible for
all core business operations and revenue services. Mr. Zewe assumed his current
position in May 2002. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Zewe was with the Squibb
Diagnostics Division of Bristol Myers Squibb, most recently serving as Vice
President of Sales.









Item 11. Executive Compensation

     The information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
information under the caption "Executive Compensation" appearing in the Proxy
Statement. The information contained in the Proxy Statement under the captions
"Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation" and "Performance
Graph" is not incorporated herein by reference.

     Reflecting its commitment to sound business planning and the establishment
of best practices, the Board of Directors has established a formalized
succession planning process for the position of Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer. The recently renewed employment agreement with Mr. Freeman outlines the
process and appears as Exhibit 10.34 to this report.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Except for the Equity Compensation Plan information set forth below, the
information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
information under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management" appearing in the Proxy Statement.

                      Equity Compensation Plan Information

     The following table provides information as of December 31, 2002 about our
common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and
rights under our existing equity compensation plans:



     The only equity compensation plan that has not been approved by the
Company's stockholders is the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP").
The ESPP permits employees to purchase the Company's common stock each calendar
quarter through payroll deductions. The purchase price is 85% of the closing
market price on the last business day of the calendar quarter (or, if lower, the
closing market price on the first business day of the calendar quarter). The
ESPP, which was adopted prior to the spinoff of the Company in 1996, authorizes
the issuance of 4 million shares of the Company's common stock. The number of
securities reflected in the table above for the ESPP includes the share
allocation for the fourth quarter of 2002, which were purchased in January 2003.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
information under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
appearing in the Proxy Statement.









Item 14. Controls and Procedures

(a)  Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the
     effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
     procedures (as defined under Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of a date within ninety days of the
     filing date of this report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive
     Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure
     controls and procedures are adequate and effective.

(b)  There were no significant changes in our internal controls or in other
     factors that could significantly affect our internal controls subsequent to
     the date of such evaluation.

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as part of this report:

     1.   Index to financial statements and supplementary data filed as part of
          this report:

                                  Item                                Page
                                  ----                                ----

     Report of Independent Accountants.............................    F-1
     Consolidated Balance Sheets...................................    F-2
     Consolidated Statements of Operations.........................    F-3
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.........................    F-4
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity...............    F-5
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements....................    F-6
     Supplementary Data: Quarterly Operating Results (unaudited)...   F-34

     2.   Financial Statement Schedule:

                                Item                                  Page

     Schedule II - Valuation Accounts and Reserves.................   F-35

     3.   Exhibits filed as part of this report:

          See (c) below.

(b)  Report on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of 2002:

          On October 31, 2002, the Company filed a current report on Form 8-K
          reporting under Item 9 sworn statements of its Chief Executive Officer
          and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the
          Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

(c)  Exhibits filed as part of this report:

Exhibit
 Number                                Description
- -------                                -----------
  3.1     Restated Certificate of Incorporation (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: May 31, 2001)
          and incorporated herein by reference)

  3.2     Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant (filed as an Exhibit to
          the Company's 2000 annual report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein
          by reference)

  4.1     Form of Rights Agreement dated December 31, 1996 (the "Rights
          Agreement") between Corning Clinical Laboratories Inc. and Harris
          Trust and Savings Bank as Rights Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 (File No. 1-12215) and
          incorporated herein by reference)









  4.2     Form of Amendment No. 1 effective as of July 1, 1999 to the Rights
          Agreement (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's current report on Form
          8-K (Date of Report: August 16, 1999) and incorporated herein by
          reference)

  4.3     Form of Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement (filed as an Exhibit
          to the Company's 1999 annual report on Form 10-K and incorporated
          herein by reference)

  4.4     Form of Amendment No. 3 to the Rights Agreement (filed as an Exhibit
          to the Company's 2000 annual report on Form 10-K and incorporated
          herein by reference)

 10.1     Form of 6 3/4% Senior Notes due 2006, including the form of guarantee
          endorsed thereon (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's current report
          on Form 8-K (Date of Report: June 27, 2001) and incorporated herein by
          reference)

 10.2     Form of 7 1/2% Senior Notes due 2011, including the form of guarantee
          endorsed thereon (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's current report
          on Form 8-K (Date of Report: June 27, 2001) and incorporated herein by
          reference)

 10.3     Form of 1.75% Contingent Convertible Debentures due 2021, including
          the form of guarantee endorsed thereon (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: November 26,
          2001) and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.4     Indenture dated as of June 27, 2001, among the Company, the Subsidiary
          Guarantors, and the Trustee (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: June 27, 2001) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.5     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001, among the
          Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, and the Trustee to the Indenture
          referred to in Exhibit 10.4 (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: June 27, 2001) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.6     Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001, among
          the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, and the Trustee to the
          Indenture referred to in Exhibit 10.4 (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: November 26,
          2001) and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.7     Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002, among Quest
          Diagnostics, the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors, and the Trustee to
          the Indenture referred to in Exhibit 10.4 (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: April 1, 2002)
          and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.8     Credit Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2001, among the Company, the
          Subsidiary Guarantors and the Banks (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: June 27, 2001)
          and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.9     Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of
          September 28, 2001, among Quest Diagnostics Receivables Inc., as
          Borrower, the Company, as Initial Servicer, each of the Lenders party
          thereto and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (filed as an
          Exhibit to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.10    Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Credit and Security
          Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2001, among Quest Diagnostics
          Receivables Inc., as Borrower, the Company, as Initial Servicer, each
          of the Lenders party thereto and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's quarterly
          report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001 and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.11    Amendment No. 2 to the Amended and Restated Credit and Security
          Agreement, dated as of January 14, 2002, among Quest Diagnostics
          Receivables Inc., as Borrower, the Company, as Initial Servicer, each
          of the Lenders party thereto and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's annual
          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.12    Amendment No. 3 to the Amended and Restated Credit and Security
          Agreement dated as of July 24, 2002 among Quest Diagnostics
          Receivables Inc., as Borrower, the Company, as Initial Servicer, each
          of the lenders party thereto and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's quarterly
          report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.13    Waiver and Amendment No. 4 to the Amended and Restated Credit and
          Security Agreement dated as of September 24, 2002 among Quest
          Diagnostics Receivables Inc., as Borrower, the Company, as Initial
          Servicer, each of the lenders party thereto and Wachovia Bank,
          N.A., as Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
          2002 and









          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.14    Omnibus Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit and Security
          Agreement dated as of October 15, 2002 among Quest Diagnostics
          Receivables Inc., as Borrower, the Company, as Initial Servicer, each
          of the lenders party thereto and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002
          and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.15    Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of July 21, 2000 between the
          Company, each of the subsidiary sellers party thereto and Quest
          Diagnostics Receivables Inc. (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000 and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.16    Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of June 21, 2002 among Quest
          Diagnostics Incorporated, certain subsidiary guarantors of the
          Company, the lenders party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-88330) and incorporated
          herein by reference)

 10.17    First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of September 20, 2002
          among Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, certain subsidiary guarantors of
          the Company, the lenders party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's quarterly
          report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002 and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.18    Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of December 19, 2002
          among Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, certain subsidiary guarantors of
          the Company, the lenders party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as
          Administrative Agent (filed as an Exhibit to post effective amendment
          no. 1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.
          333-88330) and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.19    Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 9, 1999 among
          SmithKline Beecham plc, SmithKline Beecham Corporation and the Company
          (the "Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement") (filed as Appendix A of the
          Company's Definitive Proxy Statement dated May 11, 1999 and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.20    Amendment No. 1 dated August 6, 1999 to the Stock and Asset Purchase
          Agreement (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's current report on Form
          8-K (Date of Report: August 16, 1999) and incorporated herein by
          reference)

 10.21    Non-Competition Agreement dated as of August 16, 1999 between
          SmithKline Beecham plc and the Company (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: August 16, 1999)
          and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.22    Stockholders Agreement dated as of August 16, 1999 between SmithKline
          Beecham plc and the Company (filed as an Exhibit to the Company's
          current report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: August 16, 1999) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.23    Amended and Restated Global Clinical Trials Agreement, dated as of
          December 19, 2002 between SmithKline Beecham plc dba GlaxoSmithKline
          and the Company (filed as an Exhibit to post effective amendment No. 1
          to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-88330)
          and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.24    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 2, 2002, as amended,
          among the Company, Quest Diagnostics Newco Incorporated and Unilab
          Corporation (filed as an annex to the Company's final prospectus,
          dated August 6, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.25    Amendment to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 13,
          2002, among the Company, Quest Diagnostics Newco Incorporated and
          Unilab Corporation (filed as an annex to the Company's final
          prospectus, dated August 6, 2002, and incorporated herein by
          reference)

 10.26    Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          June 20, 2002, among the Company, Quest Diagnostics Newco
          Incorporated and Unilab Corporation (filed as an annex to the
          Company's final prospectus, dated August 6, 2002, and incorporated
          herein by reference)

 10.27    Amendment No. 3 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          September 25, 2002, among the Company, Quest Diagnostics Newco
          Incorporated and Unilab Corporation (incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit (a)(11) of the Company's Schedule TO Amendment No. 12 filed
          with the Commission on September 26, 2002, file No. 001-12215)









 10.28    Amendment No. 4 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          January 4, 2003, among the Company, Quest Diagnostics Newco
          Incorporated and Unilab Corporation (incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit (a)(20) of Quest Diagnostics' Schedule TO Amendment No. 20
          filed with the Commission on January 6, 2003, file No. 001-12215)

 10.29    Stockholders Agreement, dated as of April 2, 2002, as amended, among
          Quest Diagnostics, Quest Diagnostics Newco Incorporated, Kelso
          Investment Associates VI, L.P. and KEP VI, LLC (filed as an annex to
          the Company's final prospectus, dated August 6, 2002 and incorporated
          herein by reference)

 10.30    Form of Employees Stock Purchase Plan, as amended

 10.31    Form of 1996 Employee Equity Participation Program, as amended (filed
          as an Exhibit to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended September 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.32    Form of 1999 Employee Equity Participation Program, as amended

 10.33    Form of Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed as an
          Exhibit to post effective amendment No. 1 to the Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-88330) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.34    Employment Agreement between the Company and Kenneth W. Freeman dated
          as of January 1, 2003

 10.35    Form of Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as an Exhibit
          to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference)

 10.36    Amendment No. 1 to the Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan (filed
          as an Exhibit to post effective amendment No. 1 to the Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-88330) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.37    Amendment No. 2 to the Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan (filed
          as an Exhibit to post effective amendment No. 1 to the Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-88330) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.38    Form of Executive Retirement Supplemental Plan (filed as an Exhibit to
          the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 (File No. 1-12215) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

 10.39    Form of Variable Compensation Plan (filed as an Exhibit to the
          Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 (File No. 1-12215) and
          incorporated herein by reference)

  21      Subsidiaries of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

 23.1     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP









                                   Signatures

     Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Quest Diagnostics Incorporated


By  /s/ Kenneth W. Freeman
  ------------------------
        Kenneth W. Freeman   Chairman of the Board and        February 27, 2003
                             Chief Executive Officer


By  /s/ Robert A. Hagemann
  ------------------------
        Robert A. Hagemann   Vice President and               February 27, 2003
                             Chief Financial Officer


By  /s/ Thomas F. Bongiorno
  ------------------------
        Thomas F. Bongiorno  Vice President, Controller and   February 27, 2003
                             Chief Accounting Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and on the dates indicated.

                                        Capacity                     Date
                                        --------                     ----


  /s/ Kenneth W. Freeman
- ----------------------------
      Kenneth W. Freeman       Chairman of the Board and       February 27, 2003
                               Chief Executive Officer


  /s/ Surya N. Mohapatra
- ----------------------------
      Surya N. Mohapatra       Director, President and Chief   February 27, 2003
                               Operating Officer


  /s/ Kenneth D. Brody
- ----------------------------
      Kenneth D. Brody         Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ William F. Buehler
- ----------------------------
      William F. Buehler       Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ Van C. Campbell
- ----------------------------
      Van C. Campbell          Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ Mary A. Cirillo
- ----------------------------
      Mary A. Cirillo          Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ James F. Flaherty III
- ----------------------------
      James F. Flaherty III    Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ William R. Grant
- ----------------------------
      William R. Grant         Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ Rosanne Hagerty
- ----------------------------
      Rosanne Hagerty          Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ Dan C. Stanzione
- ----------------------------
      Dan C. Stanzione         Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ Gail R. Wilensky
- ----------------------------
      Gail R. Wilensky         Director                        February 27, 2003


  /s/ John B. Ziegler
- ----------------------------
      John B. Ziegler          Director                        February 27, 2003









                                 Certifications

I, Kenneth W. Freeman, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Quest Diagnostics
     Incorporated;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
     make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
     statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

     a)   designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
          material information relating to the registrant, including its
          consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
          entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)   presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
     committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
     equivalent function):

     a)   all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
          controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
          identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          controls; and

6.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
     controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
     controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.

February 27, 2003


By /s/ Kenneth W. Freeman
   ------------------------------
       Kenneth W. Freeman
       Chairman of the Board and
       Chief Executive Officer









I, Robert A. Hagemann, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Quest Diagnostics
     Incorporated;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
     make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
     statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

     a)   designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
          material information relating to the registrant, including its
          consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
          entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)   presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
     committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
     equivalent function):

     a)   all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
          controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
          identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          controls; and

6.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
     controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
     controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.

February 27, 2003


By /s/ Robert A. Hagemann
   ------------------------------
       Robert A. Hagemann
       Vice President and
       Chief Financial Officer









                SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA OF OUR COMPANY

     The following table summarizes selected historical financial data of our
company and our subsidiaries at the dates and for each of the periods presented.
We derived the selected historical financial data for the years 1998 through
2002 from the audited consolidated financial statements of our company. As
discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, all per share data
has been restated to reflect our two-for-one stock split effected on May 31,
2001. The selected historical financial data is only a summary and should be
read together with the audited consolidated financial statements and related
notes of our company and management's discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.



(a)  On April 1, 2002, we completed the acquisition of AML. Consolidated
     operating results for 2002 include the results of operations of AML
     subsequent to the closing of the acquisition. See Note 3 to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements.









(b)  In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangibles"
     ("SFAS 142"), which the Company adopted on January 1, 2002. The following
     table presents net income, income before extraordinary loss and basic and
     diluted earnings per common share data adjusted to exclude the amortization
     of goodwill, assuming that SFAS 142 had been in effect for the periods
     presented:



(c)  On August 16, 1999, we completed the acquisition of SBCL. Consolidated
     operating results for 1999 include the results of operations of SBCL
     subsequent to the closing of the acquisition.

(d)  Represents charges incurred in conjunction with our debt refinancing in the
     second quarter of 2001 as discussed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
     Statements.

(e)  During the second quarter of 2000, we recorded a net special charge of $2.1
     million. This net charge resulted from a $13.4 million charge related to
     the costs to cancel certain contracts that we believed were not
     economically viable as a result of the SBCL acquisition, and which were
     principally associated with the cancellation of a co-marketing agreement
     for clinical trials testing services, which charges were in large part
     offset by a reduction in reserves attributable to a favorable resolution of
     outstanding claims for reimbursements associated with billings of certain
     tests.

(f)  Represents charges principally incurred in conjunction with the acquisition
     and planned integration of SBCL.

(g)  In conjunction with our debt refinancing in the second quarter of 2001, we
     recorded an extraordinary loss of $36 million ($22 million, net of taxes).
     The loss represented the write-off of deferred financing costs of $23
     million, associated with the debt which was refinanced, and $12.8 million
     of payments related primarily to the tender premium incurred in connection
     with our cash tender offer of our 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes due
     2006.

(h)  During the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded an extraordinary loss of
     $4.8 million ($2.9 million, net of taxes) representing the write-off of
     deferred financing costs resulting from the prepayment of $155 million of
     term loans under our then existing senior secured credit facility.

(i)  In conjunction with the acquisition of SBCL, we repaid the entire amount
     outstanding under our then existing credit agreement. The extraordinary
     loss recorded in the third quarter of 1999 represented $3.6 million ($2.1
     million, net of taxes) of deferred financing costs which were written-off
     in connection with the extinguishment of the credit agreement.

(j)  Potentially dilutive common shares primarily include stock options and
     restricted common shares granted under our Employee Equity Participation
     Program. During periods in which net income available for common
     stockholders is a loss, diluted weighted average common shares outstanding
     will equal basic weighted average common shares outstanding, since under
     these circumstances, the incremental shares would have an anti-dilutive
     effect.

(k)  On December 31, 2001, the Company repurchased all of its then outstanding
     preferred stock for its par value of $1 million plus accrued dividends.









                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                                   OPERATIONS

Overview

     After years of declining reimbursement and reduced test utilization during
the early to mid-1990s, the underlying fundamentals of the diagnostics testing
industry have improved during the last several years. During the early 1990s,
the industry was negatively impacted by significant government regulation and
investigations into various billing practices. In addition, the rapid growth of
managed care, as a result of the need to reduce overall healthcare costs, and
excess laboratory testing capacity, led to revenue and profit declines across
the diagnostics testing industry, which in turn led to industry consolidation,
particularly among commercial laboratories. As a result of these dynamics, fewer
but larger commercial laboratories have emerged, which have greater economies of
scale, rigorous programs designed to assure compliance with government billing
regulations and other laws, and a more disciplined approach to pricing services.
These changes have resulted in improved profitability and a reduced risk of
non-compliance with complex government regulations. At the same time, a slowdown
in the growth of managed care and decreasing influence by managed care
organizations on the ordering of clinical laboratory testing by physicians has
contributed to renewed growth in testing volumes and further improvements in
profitability since 1999. In addition, the following factors are expected to
continue to fuel revenue growth for the industry:

     o    general expansion and aging of the United States population;

     o    increasing  focus  on early  detection  and  prevention  as a means to
          reduce  the  overall  cost  of  healthcare  and  development  of  more
          sophisticated and specialized tests for early detection of disease and
          disease management;

     o    continuing  research  and  development  in the  area of  genomics  and
          proteomics,   which  is  expected  to  yield  new  genetic  tests  and
          techniques;

     o    increasing  volume of tests for diagnosis and monitoring of infectious
          diseases such as AIDS and hepatitis C;

     o    increasing  affordability  of tests due to advances in technology  and
          cost efficiencies; and

     o    increasing  awareness by consumers of the value of clinical laboratory
          testing and increasing  willingness of consumers to pay for tests that
          may not be covered by third party payers.

     Quest Diagnostics, as the largest clinical laboratory testing company with
a leading position in most of its geographic markets and service offerings, is
well positioned to benefit from the renewed growth expected in the industry.

     Payments for clinical laboratory testing services are made by the
government, managed care organizations, insurance companies, physicians,
hospitals, employers and patients. Physicians, hospitals and employers are
typically billed on a fee-for-service basis based on fee schedules, which are
typically negotiated. Fees billed to patients and insurance companies are based
on the laboratory's patient fee schedule, subject to any limitations on fees
negotiated with the insurance companies or with physicians on behalf of their
patients. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements are based on fee schedules set by
governmental authorities.

     We incur significant additional costs as a result of our participation in
Medicare and Medicaid programs, as billing and reimbursement for clinical
laboratory testing is subject to considerable and complex federal and state
regulations. These additional costs include those related to: (1) complexity
added to our billing processes; (2) training and education of our employees and
customers; (3) compliance and legal costs; and (4) costs related to, among other
factors, medical necessity denials and advanced beneficiary notices. Compliance
with applicable laws and regulations, as well as internal compliance policies
and procedures, adds further complexity and costs to the billing process. We
have implemented "best practices" for billing that have significantly improved
our billing processes. These efforts, together with our Six Sigma and
Standardization initiatives and progress in dealing with Medicare medical
necessity documentation requirements, have significantly reduced bad debt
expense as a percentage of net revenues since 1996. While the total cost to
comply with Medicare administrative requirements is disproportionate to our cost
to bill other payers, average Medicare reimbursement rates approximate the
Company's overall average reimbursement rate from all payers, making this
business generally less profitable. Principally as a result of reimbursement
reductions and measures adopted by governmental agencies over the past decade to
reduce clinical laboratory testing utilization, the percentage of









our aggregate net revenues derived from Medicare and Medicaid programs declined
from approximately 20% in 1995 to approximately 15% in 2002. We believe that our
other business may significantly depend on continued participation in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, because many customers may want a single
laboratory to perform all of their clinical laboratory testing services,
regardless of who pays for such services.

     Managed care organizations and other insurance providers, which typically
contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories for their members,
represent approximately one half of our total testing volumes and one half of
our net revenues. Larger managed care organizations and other insurance
providers typically prefer to use large independent clinical laboratories
because they can provide services on a national or regional basis and can manage
networks of local or regional laboratories. In certain markets, such as
California, managed care organizations may delegate their covered members to
independent physician associations, which in turn contract with laboratories for
clinical laboratory services.

     While the growth in the number of patients participating in managed care
plans has slowed in recent years, over the last decade, the managed care
industry has been consolidating, resulting in fewer but larger managed care
organizations with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements
with healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. Managed care
organizations frequently negotiate capitated payment contracts for a portion of
their business, which shift the risk and cost of testing from the managed care
organization to the clinical laboratory. Under these capitated payment
contracts, the Company and managed care organization agree to a predetermined
monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of
the number or cost of services provided by the Company. Capitated agreements
with managed care organizations have historically been priced aggressively,
particularly for exclusive or semi-exclusive arrangements. In 2002, we derived
approximately 17% of our volume and 8% of our net revenues from capitated
payment contracts with managed care organizations. Recently, there has been a
shift in the way major managed care organizations contract with clinical
laboratories. Managed care organizations have begun to offer more freedom of
choice to their affiliated physicians, including greater freedom to determine
which laboratory to use and which tests to order. Accordingly, most of our
agreements with major managed care organizations are non-exclusive contracts. As
a result, under these non-exclusive arrangements, physicians have more freedom
of choice in selecting laboratories, and laboratories are likely to compete more
on the basis of service and quality rather than price alone. Also, managed care
organizations have been giving patients greater freedom of choice and patients
have increasingly been selecting plans (such as preferred provider
organizations) that offer a greater choice of providers. Pricing for these
preferred provider organizations is typically negotiated on a fee-for-service
basis, which generally results in higher revenue per requisition than under a
capitated fee arrangement. Despite these trends, managed care organizations
continue to aggressively seek cost reductions in order to keep their premiums to
their customers competitive.

     We expect that the overall reimbursement dynamics for all payers on a
combined basis are neutral to positive for the laboratory testing industry.
Today, many federal and state governments face serious budget deficits and
health care spending is a prime target for reductions. At this time we are not
aware of any specific proposals that would reduce spending for clinical
laboratory tests. While laboratory testing accounts for only about 3% of total
healthcare spending, we believe diagnostic testing results are a critical factor
in driving healthcare decisions. Along with our continuing efforts on the
federal and state government levels to enhance reimbursement levels, we believe
that our customers recognize the value clinical laboratory testing provides in
assessing and managing the health of their patients.

     The clinical laboratory industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations in
operating results and cash flows. Typically, testing volume declines during the
summer months, year-end holiday periods and other major holidays, reducing net
revenues and operating cash flows below annual averages. Testing volume is also
subject to declines in winter months due to inclement weather, which varies in
severity from year to year.

     The clinical laboratory industry is labor intensive. Employee compensation
and benefits constitute approximately half of our total costs and expenses. Cost
of services consists principally of costs for obtaining, transporting and
testing specimens. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist
principally of the costs associated with our sales force, billing operations
(including bad debt expense), and general management and administrative support.

     Information systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including laboratory testing, billing, customer service, logistics,
and management of medical data. Our success depends, in part, on the continued
and uninterrupted performance of our information technology (IT) systems.
Despite safeguards and controls that are in place, sustained or repeated system
failures that interrupt our ability to process test orders, deliver test results
or perform tests in a timely manner could adversely affect our reputation and
result in a loss of customers and net revenues. Additionally, during 2002, we
began implementation of a standard laboratory information system and a standard
billing system, which









we expect will take several years to complete. Through proper planning and
execution, we expect to reduce the risks associated with systems conversions of
this type, and minimize any disruptions in our operations.

Critical Accounting Policies

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to
make estimates and assumptions and select accounting policies that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our
financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     While many operational aspects of our business are subject to complex
federal, state and local regulations, the accounting for our business is
generally straightforward with net revenues primarily recognized upon completion
of the testing process. Our revenues are primarily comprised of a high volume of
relatively low dollar transactions, and about half of all our costs and expenses
consist of employee compensation and benefits. Due to the nature of our
business, several of our accounting policies involve significant estimates and
judgments:

     o    revenues and accounts receivable;

     o    reserves for general and professional liability claims;

     o    billing-related settlement reserves; and

     o    accounting for and recoverability of goodwill.

     Revenues and accounts receivable

     The process for estimating the ultimate collection of receivables involves
significant assumptions and judgments. Billings for services under third-party
payer programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of
allowances for differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts
under such programs. Adjustments to the estimated receipts, based on final
settlement with the third-party payers, are recorded upon settlement as an
adjustment to net revenues.

     In addition, we have implemented a monthly standardized approach to
estimate and review the collectibility of our receivables based on the period
they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement
experience is an integral part of the estimation process related to reserves for
doubtful accounts. In addition, we assess the current state of our billing
functions in order to identify any known collection or reimbursement issues in
order to assess the impact, if any, on our reserve estimates, which involves
judgment. We believe that the collectibility of our receivables is directly
linked to the quality of our billing processes, most notably those related to
obtaining the correct information in order to bill effectively for the services
we provide. As such, we have implemented "best practices" to reduce the number
of requisitions that we receive from healthcare providers with missing or
incorrect billing information. Revisions in reserve for doubtful accounts
estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense within selling,
general and administrative expenses. We believe that our collection and reserves
processes, along with our close monitoring of our billing processes, helps to
reduce the risk associated with material revisions to reserve estimates
resulting from adverse changes in collection and reimbursement experience and
billing operations.

     Reserves for general and professional liability claims

     As a general matter, providers of clinical laboratory testing services may
be subject to lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These
suits could involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability
litigation could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation.
We maintain various liability insurance programs for claims that could result
from providing or failing to provide clinical laboratory testing services,
including inaccurate testing results and other exposures. Our insurance coverage
limits our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims. The basis for claims
reserves incorporates actuarially determined losses based upon our historical
and projected loss experience. We believe that present insurance coverage and
reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures, but we cannot
assure you that we will not incur liabilities in excess of recorded reserves.
Similarly, although we believe that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance
coverage in the future at acceptable costs, we cannot assure you that we will be
able to do so.









     Billing-related settlement reserves

     Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state
and local laws and regulations. We have entered into several settlement
agreements with various governmental and private payers during recent years
relating to industry-wide billing and marketing practices that had been
substantially discontinued by early 1993. In addition, we are aware of several
pending lawsuits filed under the qui tam provisions of the civil False Claims
Act and have received notices of private claims relating to billing issues
similar to those that were the subject of prior settlements with various
governmental payers. We have a comprehensive compliance program that is intended
to ensure the strict implementation and observance of all applicable laws,
regulations and company policies. The Quality, Safety and Compliance Committee
of the Board of Directors requires periodic reporting of compliance operations
from management. As an integral part of our compliance program, we investigate
all reported or suspected failures to comply with federal healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any non-compliance that results in Medicare or
Medicaid overpayments is reported to the government and reimbursed by us. As a
result of these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported
overpayments. While we have reimbursed these overpayments and have taken
corrective action where appropriate, we cannot assure you that in each instance
the government will necessarily accept these actions as sufficient.

     While we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable
laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to
billing and reimbursement of tests and those relating to relationships with
physicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted
by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory
or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our
operations, including our billing practices. If we fail to comply with
applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties,
including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

     Although management believes that established reserves for billing-related
claims are sufficient, it is possible that additional information (such as the
indication by the government of criminal activity, additional tests being
questioned or other changes in the government's or private claimants' theories
of wrongdoing) may become available which may cause the final resolution of
these matters to exceed established reserves by an amount which could be
material to our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which such
claims are settled. We do not believe that these issues will have a material
adverse effect on our overall financial condition.

     Accounting for and recoverability of goodwill

     In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"). The impact of adopting SFAS 142 is
summarized in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Effective January 1, 2002, we evaluate the recoverability and measure the
potential impairment of our goodwill under SFAS 142. The impairment test is a
two-step process that begins with the estimation of the fair value of the
reporting unit. The first step screens for potential impairment and the second
step measures the amount of the impairment, if any. Our estimate of fair value
considers publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of
our Company, as well as (i) publicly available information regarding comparable
publicly-traded companies in the clinical laboratory testing industry, (ii) the
financial projections and future prospects of our business, including its growth
opportunities and likely operational improvements, and (iii) comparable sales
prices, if available. As part of the first step to assess potential impairment,
we compare our estimate of fair value for the Company to the book value of our
consolidated net assets. If the book value of our consolidated net assets is
greater than our estimate of fair value, we would then proceed to the second
step to measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied
fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is
determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the
assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired
in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the
purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value
of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is
the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting
unit's goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will
be recognized in the amount of the excess. We believe our estimation methods are
reasonable and reflective of common valuation practices.

     On a quarterly basis, we perform a review of our business to determine if
events or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have a material
adverse effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If such









events or changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, we would
perform an impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the quarter, consistent
with the annual impairment test, and record any noted impairment loss.

Acquisition of Unilab Corporation

     On February 26, 2003, we accepted for payment more than 99% of the
outstanding capital stock of Unilab Corporation, or Unilab, the leading
independent clinical laboratory in California. On February 28, 2003, we acquired
the remaining shares of Unilab through a merger. In connection with the
acquisition, we issued approximately 7.4 million shares of Quest Diagnostics
common stock (including 0.3 million shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock
reserved for outstanding stock options of Unilab which were converted upon the
completion of the acquisition into options to acquire shares of Quest
Diagnostics common stock), paid $297 million in cash and we plan to repay
substantially all of Unilab's outstanding indebtedness. Unilab, which generated
net revenues of approximately $425 million in 2002, has three regional
laboratories, approximately 365 patient service centers and 35 rapid response
laboratories and approximately 4,100 employees. We financed the cash portion of
the purchase price, and related transaction costs, and expect to finance the
repayment of substantially all of Unilab's existing debt with the proceeds from
a new $450 million amortizing term loan ("term loan") and cash on-hand.

     In connection with the acquisition of Unilab, as part of a settlement
agreement with the United States Federal Trade Commission, we entered into an
agreement to sell to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc., or
LabCorp, certain assets in northern California, including the assignment of
agreements with four independent physician associations ("IPA") and leases for
46 patient service centers (five of which also serve as rapid response
laboratories) for $4.5 million. Approximately $27 million in annual net revenues
are generated by capitated fees under the IPA contracts and associated fee for
service testing for physicians whose patients use these patient service centers,
as well as from specimens received directly from the IPA physicians.

     In conjunction with the acquisition of Unilab, on February 6, 2003, we
commenced a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding $100.8 million
principal amount of Unilab 12 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2009. We expect
to finance the cash tender offer and consent solicitation, including tender
premium and related solicitation and banking fees estimated at approximately $25
million, with a combination of cash on hand and borrowings under the term loan.
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of
this transaction.

     We estimate that we will incur up to $20 million of costs to integrate
Quest Diagnostics and Unilab. A significant portion of these costs is expected
to require cash outlays and is expected to primarily relate to severance and
other integration-related costs during 2003 and 2004, including the elimination
of excess capacity and workforce reductions. These estimates are preliminary and
will be subject to revisions as detail integration plans are developed and
finalized. To the extent that the costs relate to actions that impact the
employees and operations of Unilab, such costs will be accounted for as a cost
of the Unilab acquisition and included in goodwill. To the extent that the costs
relate to actions that impact Quest Diagnostics' employees and operations, such
costs will be accounted for as a charge to earnings in the periods that the
related actions are taken, which we expect to occur during 2003 and 2004. Upon
completion of the Unilab integration, we expect to realize approximately $25
million to $30 million of annual synergies and we expect to achieve this annual
rate of synergies by the end of 2005.

Integration of Acquired Businesses

     American Medical Laboratories, Incorporated

     On April 1, 2002, we completed our acquisition of all of the outstanding
voting stock of American Medical Laboratories, Incorporated, or AML. See Note 3
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of this
transaction.

     During the third quarter of 2002, we finalized our plan related to the
integration of AML into our laboratory network. The plan focuses principally on
improving customer service by enabling us to perform esoteric testing on the
east and west coasts of the United States, and redirecting certain physician
testing volumes within our national network to provide more local testing. As
part of the plan, our Chantilly, Virginia laboratory, acquired as part of the
AML acquisition, will become our primary esoteric testing laboratory and
hospital service center for the eastern United States and will complement our
Nichols Institute esoteric testing facility in San Juan Capistrano, California.
Esoteric testing volumes will be redirected within our national network to
provide customers with improved turnaround time and customer service. Certain
routine clinical laboratory testing currently performed in our Chantilly,
Virginia laboratory will transition over time to other testing facilities within
our regional laboratory network. A reduction in staffing will









occur as we execute the integration plan and consolidate duplicate or
overlapping functions and facilities. Employee groups being affected as a result
of this plan include those involved in the collection and testing of specimens,
as well as administrative and other support functions.

     In connection with the AML integration plan, we recorded $11 million of
costs associated with executing the plan. The majority of these integration
costs related to employee severance and contractual obligations associated with
leased facilities and equipment. Of the total costs indicated above, $9.5
million, related to actions that impact the employees and operations of AML, was
accounted for as a cost of the AML acquisition and included in goodwill. Of the
$9.5 million, $5.9 million related to employee severance benefits for
approximately 200 employees, with the remainder primarily related to contractual
obligations associated with leased facilities and equipment. In addition, $1.5
million of integration costs, related to actions that impact Quest Diagnostics'
employees and operations and comprised principally of employee severance
benefits for approximately 100 employees, were accounted for as a charge to
earnings in the third quarter of 2002 and included in "other, net" within the
consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2002, accruals related
to the AML integration plan totaled approximately $8 million. While the majority
of the integration costs are expected to be paid in 2003, there are certain
severance and facility exit costs that have payment terms extending beyond 2003.
Upon completion of the AML integration, we expect to realize approximately $15
million of annual synergies and we expect to achieve this annual rate of
synergies by the end of 2003.

     Clinical Diagnostic Services, Incorporated

     During the fourth quarter of 2001, we acquired all of the voting stock of
Clinical Diagnostic Services, Inc., or CDS, which operated a diagnostic testing
laboratory and more than 50 patient service centers in New York and New Jersey.
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of
this transaction.

     During the fourth quarter of 2002, we finalized our plan related to the
integration of CDS into Quest Diagnostics' laboratory network in the New York
metropolitan area. Of the $13.3 million of costs recorded in the fourth quarter
of 2002 in connection with the execution of the CDS integration plan, all of
which were associated with actions impacting the employees and operations of
CDS, $3 million related to employee severance benefits for approximately 150
employees with the remainder primarily associated with contractual obligations
under facilities and equipment leases. The costs outlined above were recorded as
a cost of the acquisition and included in goodwill. As of December 31, 2002,
accruals related to the CDS integration plan totaled $10.3 million,
substantially all of which represented remaining contractual obligations under
facility leases which have terms extending beyond 2003.

     SmithKline Beecham's Clinical Laboratory Testing Business

     On August 16, 1999, we completed the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham
Clinical Laboratories, Inc., or SBCL, which operated the clinical laboratory
business of SmithKline Beecham plc, or SmithKline Beecham. The actions
associated with the SBCL integration plan, including those related to severed
employees, were completed as of June 30, 2001.

     See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion
regarding accruals related to the integration of acquired businesses.

Six Sigma and Standardization Initiatives

     We intend to become recognized as the quality leader in the healthcare
services industry. We continue to implement a Six Sigma initiative throughout
our organization. Six Sigma is a management approach that requires a thorough
understanding of customer needs and requirements, process discipline, rigorous
tracking and measuring of services, and training of employees in methodologies
so that they can be held accountable for improving results. During the second
half of 2001, we began to integrate our Six Sigma initiative with our initiative
to standardize operations and processes across all of Quest Diagnostics by
adopting identified company best practices. We plan to continue these
initiatives during the next several years and expect that their successful
implementation will result in measurable improvements in customer satisfaction
and operating results.









Results of Operations

     Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001

     Net income for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased to $322 million
from $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Assuming that the
provisions of SFAS 142 related to accounting for goodwill amortization had been
in effect in 2001, net income for the year ended December 31, 2001 would have
been $198 million. In addition, results for the year ended December 31, 2001
included an extraordinary loss of $36 million ($22 million, net of taxes) and a
special charge of $6.0 million ($3.6 million, net of taxes), both of which were
incurred in conjunction with our debt refinancing in the second quarter of 2001.
Assuming that SFAS 142 had been in effect during 2001, and excluding the
extraordinary loss and special charge in 2001, income for the year ended
December 31, 2002 increased by $99 million, compared to the prior year period,
an increase of 44%. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to
revenue growth, driven by improvements in clinical testing volume and average
revenue per requisition, improved efficiencies generated from our Six Sigma and
Standardization initiatives, and a reduction in net interest expense, partially
offset by increases in employee compensation and supply costs, depreciation
expense and investments in our information technology strategy and strategic
growth opportunities.

     Net Revenues

     Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 grew by 13.2% compared
with the prior year period. The acquisition of AML, which was completed on April
1, 2002, contributed approximately half of the increase in net revenues. For the
year ended December 31, 2002, clinical testing volume, measured by the number of
requisitions, increased 9.7% compared with the prior year period. Assuming AML
had been part of Quest Diagnostics in 2001, clinical testing volume would have
increased above the prior year level by 3.4% on a pro forma basis, for the year
ended December 31, 2002. Other smaller acquisitions completed in 2001
contributed approximately 1.5% to volume growth in 2002. Partially offsetting
these increases was a decline in volumes associated with our drugs of abuse
testing business, which reduced total company volume for the year ended December
31, 2002 by about half a percent. Drugs of abuse testing, which accounted for
approximately 7% of our volume and 4% of our net revenues, was impacted by a
general slowing of the economy and a corresponding slowdown in hiring. Average
revenue per requisition increased 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2002,
compared with the prior year period. The improvement in average revenue per
requisition was primarily attributable to a continuing shift in test mix to
higher value testing, including gene-based testing, which contributed over half
of the improvement, and a shift in payer mix to higher priced fee-for-service
reimbursement. We continue to see strong growth in our gene-based and esoteric
testing with gene-based testing net revenues, which approached $400 million
for the year, growing at more than 20% compared with the prior year. Our
businesses, other than clinical laboratory testing, which accounted for
approximately 4% of our total net revenues in 2002, grew about 15% over the
prior year and accounted for 0.6% of the 13.2% increase in net revenues, or
approximately $20 million. Most of this increase was from our MedPlus
subsidiary, which we acquired in November 2001, which develops clinical
connectivity products designed to enhance patient care.

     Operating Costs and Expenses

     Total operating costs for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased $337
million from the prior year period primarily due to increases in our clinical
testing volume, largely as a result of the AML acquisition, employee
compensation and supply costs and depreciation expense; partially offset by a
reduction in bad debt expense. While our cost structure has been favorably
impacted by the synergies realized as a result of the integration of SBCL and
the improved efficiencies generated from our Six Sigma and Standardization
initiatives, we continue to make investments to enhance our infrastructure to
pursue our overall business strategy. These investments include those related
to:

o    Skills training for all employees, which together with our competitive pay
     and benefits, helps to increase employee satisfaction and performance,
     which we believe will result in better service to our customers;

o    Our information technology strategy, which is designed to result in better
     service to our customers; and

o    Our strategic growth opportunities.

     Cost of services, which includes the costs of obtaining, transporting and
testing specimens, was 59.2% of net revenues for the year ended December 31,
2002, decreasing slightly from 59.3% in the prior year period. The positive
impact of our Six Sigma and Standardization efforts and the increase in average
revenue per requisition, which reduced cost of services as a percentage of net
revenues, was partially offset by the addition of AML's higher cost of services
as









of April 1, 2002. Costs of services has also increased due to a greater
percentage of patients having their blood drawn in our patient service centers
or by our phlebotomists placed in physicians' offices. During 2002, in an effort
to reduce their costs, many physicians took action to simplify activities in
their offices by ceasing blood draws by physician staff. Additionally, reflected
in the cost of services are the one-time installation costs of deploying our
Internet-based orders and results systems in physicians' offices. As of December
31, 2002, approximately 10% of all orders and 15% of all test results were being
transmitted via the Internet. Both the reduction of blood draws in the
physicians' offices and the increased use of the Internet for ordering and
resulting are improving the initial collection of billing information and
generating savings in the cost of billing and bad debt expense, both of which
are components of selling, general and administrative expense. Increased blood
draws by company-trained employee phlebotomists also improve the overall
preparation of the blood sample, which can improve efficiency of the testing
process.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses, which include the costs of
the sales force, billing operations, bad debt expense and general management and
administrative support, decreased during the year ended December 31, 2002 as a
percentage of net revenues to 26.2% from 28.1% in the prior year period. This
decrease was primarily due to efficiencies from our Six Sigma and
Standardization efforts, in particular bad debt expense, the improvement in
average revenue per requisition and the impact of AML's cost structure as of
April 1, 2002. During 2002, bad debt expense improved to 5.3% of net revenues,
compared to 6.0% of net revenues in 2001. The improvements in bad debt expense
were principally attributable to the continued progress that we have made in our
overall collection experience through process improvements, driven by our Six
Sigma and Standardization initiatives. These improvements primarily relate to
the collection of diagnosis, patient and insurance information necessary to
effectively bill for services performed. We believe that our Six Sigma and
Standardization initiatives will provide additional opportunities to further
improve our overall collection experience.

     Interest Expense, Net

     Net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2002 decreased from
the prior year period by $17 million. The reduction was primarily due to the
favorable impact of our debt refinancings in 2001 and a favorable interest rate
environment.

     Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

     Amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets for the year ended
December 31, 2002 decreased from the prior year period by $38 million
principally as the result of adopting SFAS 142, effective January 1, 2002. See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding
the impact of SFAS 142.

     Provision for Special Charges

     During the second quarter of 2001, we recorded a special charge of $6
million in connection with the refinancing of our debt and settlement of our
interest rate swap agreements. Prior to our debt refinancing in June 2001, our
secured credit agreement required us to maintain interest rate swap agreements
to mitigate the risk of changes in interest rates associated with a portion of
our variable interest rate indebtedness. These interest rate swap agreements
were considered a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows
associated with the interest payments of our variable rate debt obligations.
Accordingly, the interest rate swap agreements were recorded at their estimated
fair value in our consolidated balance sheet and the related losses on these
contracts were deferred in stockholders' equity as a component of comprehensive
income. In conjunction with the debt refinancing, the interest rate swap
agreements were terminated and the losses, which were reflected in stockholders'
equity as a component of comprehensive income, were reflected as a special
charge in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December
31, 2001.

     Minority Share of Income

     Minority share of income for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased
from the prior year level, primarily due to the improved performance of our
consolidated joint ventures.

     Other, Net

     "Other, net", which represents income for each of the periods presented,
and includes equity earnings from our unconsolidated joint ventures and
miscellaneous gains and losses, increased $11 million to $18 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. The increase was principally due to improved
operating performance at our unconsolidated joint ventures, which generated an
increase of approximately $6 million in equity earnings. For the year ended
December 31, 2002, "other, net" includes $6.7 million in pretax gains on the
sale of certain assets, partially offset by a









$1.5 million charge associated with the integration of AML. "Other, net" for the
year ended December 31, 2001 reflects the net impact of writing-off $9.6 million
of certain impaired assets, partially offset by a $6.3 million gain on the sale
of an investment.

     Income Taxes

     During 2001, our effective tax rate was significantly impacted by goodwill
amortization, the majority of which was not deductible for tax purposes, and had
the effect of increasing the overall tax rate. The reduction in the effective
tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2002 was primarily due to the
elimination of amortization of goodwill (as a result of adopting SFAS 142,
effective January 1, 2002) the majority of which was not deductible for tax
purposes.

     Extraordinary Loss

     In conjunction with our debt refinancing in the second quarter of 2001, we
recorded an extraordinary loss of $36 million ($22 million, net of taxes). The
loss represented the write-off of deferred financing costs of $23 million,
associated with the debt which was refinanced, and $12.8 million of payments
related primarily to the tender premium incurred in connection with our cash
tender offer of our 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2006 (the
"Subordinated Notes"). Our debt refinancing is more fully described under
"Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows from Financing Activities" and in
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Impact of Contingent Convertible Debentures on Diluted Earnings per Common
Share

     On November 26, 2001, we completed our $250 million offering of 1 3/4%
contingent convertible debentures due 2021 (the "Debentures"). Each one thousand
dollar principal amount of Debentures is convertible into 11.429 shares of our
common stock, which represents an initial conversion price of $87.50 per share.
Holders may surrender the Debentures for conversion into shares of our common
stock under any of the following circumstances: (i) if the sales price of our
common stock is above 120% of the conversion price (or $105 per share) for
specified periods; (ii) if we call the Debentures; or (iii) if specified
corporate transactions have occurred. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources -
Cash Flows from Financing Activities" and in Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a further discussion of the Debentures.

     The if-converted method is used in determining the dilutive effect of the
Debentures in periods when the holders of such securities are permitted to
exercise their conversion rights. As of and for the year ended December 31,
2002, the holders of our Debentures did not have the ability to exercise their
conversion rights. Had the requirements to allow the holders to exercise their
conversion rights been met and the Debentures remained outstanding for the
entire period, diluted earnings per common share would have been reduced by
approximately 2% during the year ended December 31, 2002.

     Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2000

     Net income for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased to $162 million
from $102 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Results for the years
ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 included extraordinary losses, net of taxes, of
$22 million and $2.9 million, respectively, associated with the prepayment of
debt. In addition, results for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000
included special charges of $6.0 million ($3.6 million, net of taxes) and $2.1
million ($1.3 million, net of taxes), reflected on the face of the consolidated
statements of operations. Excluding the special charges and extraordinary
losses, income for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased to $188 million,
compared to $106 million for the prior year period, an increase of approximately
77%.

     These earnings increases were primarily attributable to revenue growth
driven by improvements in average revenue per requisition, improved operating
performance, including the benefits to our cost structure resulting from the
SBCL integration and a reduction in net interest expense, partially offset by
increases in employee compensation, severance benefits and supply costs, and
investments in our Six Sigma and Standardization initiatives, information
technology strategy, and strategic growth opportunities.

     Results for the year ended December 31, 2000 included the effects of
testing performed by third parties under our laboratory network management
arrangements. As laboratory network manager, we included in our consolidated
revenues and expenses the cost of testing performed by third parties. This
treatment added $49 million to both reported revenues and cost of services for
the year ended December 31, 2000. This treatment also serves to increase cost of
services as a percentage of net revenues and decrease selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of net









revenues. During the first quarter of 2000, we terminated a laboratory network
management arrangement with Aetna US Healthcare, and entered into a new
non-exclusive contract under which we are no longer responsible for the cost of
testing performed by third parties. In addition, during the third quarter of
2000, we amended our laboratory network management contract with Oxford Health
to remove the financial risk associated with testing performed by third parties.
As a result of these contract modifications, we are no longer required to
include in our consolidated revenues and expenses, the cost of testing performed
by third parties. This affects the comparability of results between the periods
presented and serves to reduce the increase in reported net revenues during the
year ended December 31, 2001 by $49 million.

     Net Revenues

     Excluding the effect of testing performed by third parties under our
laboratory network management arrangements in 2000, net revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2001 grew by 7.6%, compared to the prior year period,
primarily due to a 7.3% increase in net revenues in our core testing business.
This increase was due to improvements in average revenue per requisition of 6.6%
and an increase in requisition volume of 1%. The improvement in average revenue
per requisition was primarily attributable to improved pricing on managed care
business, a shift in payer mix to fee-for-service reimbursement and a shift in
test mix to higher value testing. Business contributed during 2000 to our
unconsolidated joint ventures in: Phoenix, Arizona; Indianapolis, Indiana; and
Dayton, Ohio reduced our reported requisition volume for the year ended December
31, 2001 by approximately 1.4%, compared to the prior year period. After
adjusting for business contributed to unconsolidated joint ventures, requisition
volume for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased approximately 1.7% over
the prior year period. Contributing to this net increase was an increase in
volume from our principal customers, physicians and hospitals, of approximately
2.5% and volume related to our acquisitions in 2001, which contributed an
increase of approximately 1%. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline
in volumes associated with our drugs of abuse testing business, which reduced
total company volume for the year ended December 31, 2001 by about 1.8%,
compared to the prior year period. Drugs of abuse testing was impacted by a
general slowing of the economy and a corresponding slowdown in hiring. Our
businesses, other than clinical laboratory testing, which accounted for
approximately 4% of our total net revenues in 2001, grew 17.5% over the prior
year and accounted for 0.6% of the 7.6% increase in net revenues, or $22
million. Most of this increase was from our clinical trials testing business.

     Operating Costs and Expenses

     Excluding the effect of testing performed by third parties under our
laboratory network management arrangements in 2000, total operating costs for
the year ended December 31, 2001 increased $162 million from the prior year.
This increase was primarily due to increases in employee compensation, severance
benefits and supply costs, partially offset by a reduction in bad debt expense.
While our cost structure has been favorably impacted by the synergies realized
as a result of the SBCL integration, we continue to make investments to enhance
our infrastructure in support of our overall business strategy. These
investments include those related to:

     o    Our Six Sigma and Standardization initiatives which we believe will
          provide us with a competitive advantage and improve operating results;

     o    Skills training for all employees, which together with our competitive
          pay and benefits, helps to increase employee satisfaction and
          performance, thereby enabling us to provide better service to our
          customers;

     o    Our information technology strategy; and

     o    Our strategic growth opportunities.

     The following discussion and analysis regarding cost of services, selling,
general and administrative expenses and bad debt expense excludes the effect of
testing performed by third parties under our laboratory network management
arrangements in 2000, which serves to increase cost of services as a percentage
of net revenues and reduce selling, general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of net revenues. Costs of services include the costs of obtaining,
transporting and testing specimens. Costs of services as a percentage of net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001, was 59.3%, which is consistent
with the prior year's level of 59.5%, as improvements in average revenue per
requisition were offset by increased employee compensation, severance benefits
and supply costs.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses, which include the costs of
the sales force, billing operations, bad debt expense and general management and
administrative support, decreased during the year ended December 31, 2001









as a percentage of net revenues to 28.1% from 29.7% in the prior year period.
This decrease was primarily due to improvements in average revenue per
requisition and bad debt expense, partially offset by an increase in employee
compensation costs and severance benefits, and investments to enhance our
infrastructure in support of our overall business strategy. For the year ended
December 31, 2001, bad debt expense was 6.0% of net revenues, compared to 7.0%
of net revenues in the prior year. The reduction in bad debt expense was
principally attributable to the continued progress we have made in the overall
collection experience through process improvements, primarily related to the
collection of diagnosis, patient and insurance information necessary to
effectively bill for services performed.

     Interest Expense, Net

     Net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2001 decreased from
the prior year period by $43 million. The reduction was primarily due to an
overall reduction in debt levels, and the favorable impact of our debt
refinancings in the second and fourth quarters of 2001 and lower interest rates,
all of which have served to lower the weighted average borrowing rate on our
outstanding debt.

     Amortization of Intangible Assets

     Amortization of intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2001
increased $0.4 million over the prior year. The increase related to 2001
acquisitions and the amortization of goodwill associated with certain
investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, in large part
offset by adjustments recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 2000 which
reduced the amount of goodwill associated with the SBCL acquisition by $130
million.









     Provision for Special Charges

     During the second quarter of 2001, we recorded a special charge of $6.0
million in connection with the refinancing of our debt and settlement of our
interest rate swap agreements. Prior to our debt refinancing in June 2001, our
credit agreement required us to maintain interest rate swap agreements to
mitigate the risk of changes in interest rates associated with a portion of our
variable interest rate indebtedness. These interest rate swap agreements were
considered a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows associated
with the interest payments of our variable rate debt obligations. Accordingly,
the interest rate swap agreements were recorded at their estimated fair value in
our consolidated balance sheet and the related losses on these contracts were
deferred in stockholders' equity as a component of comprehensive income. In
conjunction with the debt refinancing, the interest rate swap agreements were
terminated and the losses reflected in stockholders' equity as a component of
comprehensive income were reclassified to earnings and classified as a special
charge in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December
31, 2001.

     During the second quarter of 2000, we recorded a net special charge of
$2.1 million. Of the special charge, $13.4 million represented the costs to
cancel certain contracts that we believed were not economically viable as a
result of the SBCL acquisition. These costs were principally associated with the
cancellation of a co-marketing agreement for clinical trials testing services.
The cancellation of this agreement did not have a material adverse effect on
2001 net revenues. These charges were in large part offset by a reduction in
reserves attributable to a favorable resolution of outstanding claims for
reimbursements associated with billings of certain tests.

     During the third quarter of 2000, we reviewed our remaining restructuring
reserves initially recorded in the fourth quarter of 1999 and revised certain
estimates relative to integration activities, which resulted in a $2.1 million
reduction in accruals associated with planned restructuring activities affecting
Quest Diagnostics' operations and employees. These revisions were principally
associated with lower costs for employee severance and reduced costs to exit
certain leased facilities. This reduction in accruals was offset by a charge to
write-off fixed assets used in the operations of Quest Diagnostics, which had no
future economic benefit as a result of combining the operations of SBCL and
Quest Diagnostics.

     The reduction in employee severance costs was primarily attributable to
higher than anticipated volume growth and higher than expected voluntary
turnover, which reduced the number of planned severances, principally in the New
York and Philadelphia metropolitan areas. The greater than anticipated volume
growth in these regions allowed us to reassign to other positions individuals
who would have otherwise been severed. The higher than expected voluntary
turnover was a result of delays in the integration process which were outside
our control and stemmed from protracted contract renegotiations with a major
customer, and construction delays. These reductions were partially offset by the
elimination of certain senior management positions, which increased the average
cost of severance benefits per employee.

     The reduction in costs to exit leased facilities is primarily related to
our New York metropolitan area operations to reflect revised assumptions related
to the costs to be paid to exit leased facilities.

     While our original plan anticipated completion by the end of December 31,
2000, certain factors outside our control such as the protracted negotiations
related to contractual obligations and unexpected construction delays at two of
our laboratories had prevented us from completing our plans within a one year
time frame. During the second quarter of 2001, we completed the planned
integration of our principal laboratories in all major markets.

     While certain cost estimates, relative to integration activities, were
revised during 2000, the revisions did not impact our estimate of $150 million
of related annual synergies to be achieved by the end of 2002.

     Minority Share of Income

     Minority share of income for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased by
$0.6 million to $10.0 million compared to the prior year level.

     Other, Net

     "Other, net," which represents income for each of the periods presented,
and includes equity earnings from our unconsolidated joint ventures and
miscellaneous gains and losses, was $7.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2001, which approximated the prior year level. Improved operating performance at
our unconsolidated joint ventures generated an increase of $3.9 million in
equity earnings during the year. Partially offsetting the increase in equity









earnings is the net impact of writing off $9.6 million of certain impaired
investments and realizing a gain of $6.3 million on the sale of an investment
during 2001.

     Income Taxes

     Our effective tax rate is significantly impacted by goodwill amortization,
the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes, and has the effect of
increasing the overall tax rate. The reduction in the effective tax rate for the
year ended December 31, 2001 was primarily due to pretax earnings increasing at
a faster rate than goodwill amortization and other non-deductible items.

     Extraordinary Loss

     In conjunction with our debt refinancing in the second quarter of 2001, we
recorded an extraordinary loss of $36 million ($22 million, net of taxes). The
loss represented the write-off of deferred financing costs of $23 million,
associated with the debt which was refinanced, and $12.8 million of payments
related primarily to the tender premium incurred in connection with our cash
tender offer of our Subordinated Notes. Our debt refinancing is more fully
described under "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows from Financing
Activities" and in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     During the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded an extraordinary loss of
$4.8 million ($2.9 million, net of taxes) representing the write-off of deferred
financing costs resulting from the prepayment of $155 million of term loans
under our then existing senior secured credit facility.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     We address our exposure to market risks, principally the market risk of
changes in interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that
may include the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. We do not believe that
our foreign exchange exposure is material to our financial position or results
of operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional discussion of our financial instruments and hedging activities. Prior
to our debt refinancing in June 2001, our senior secured credit facility
required us to maintain interest rate swap agreements to mitigate the risk of
changes in interest rates associated with a portion of our variable rate bank
debt. In conjunction with our debt refinancing, the interest rate swap
agreements were terminated. No interest rate swap agreements or other financial
derivatives utilized to manage interest rate, foreign exchange or commodity
risks were outstanding at December 31, 2002 or 2001. Our debt refinancings are
more fully described under "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows from
Financing Activities" and in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair value of our debt was estimated at
$899 million and $857 million, respectively, using quoted market prices and
yields for the same or similar types of borrowings, taking into account the
underlying terms of the debt instruments. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the
estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of the debt by $77 million and
$35 million, respectively. An assumed 10% increase in interest rates
(representing approximately 60 basis points) would potentially reduce the
estimated fair value of our debt by $21 million and $26 million, respectively,
at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

     Our 1 3/4% contingent convertible debentures due 2021 have a contingent
interest component that will require us to pay contingent interest based on
certain thresholds, as outlined in the Indenture. The contingent interest
component, which is more fully described in Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, is considered to be a derivative instrument subject to
SFAS 133,"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as
amended. As such, the derivative was recorded at its fair value in the
consolidated balance sheets and was not material at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

     Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility under our Credit
Agreement and our secured receivables credit facility are subject to variable
interest rates, unless fixed through interest rate swap or other agreements.
Interest rates on our unsecured revolving credit facility are also subject to a
pricing schedule that fluctuates over an approximate range of 50 basis points,
based on changes in our credit rating. As such, our borrowing cost under these
credit facilities will be subject to both fluctuations in interest rates and
changes in our credit rating. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings
outstanding under our revolving credit facility or against our secured
receivables credit facility.









Liquidity and Capital Resources

     Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2002 totaled $97 million, a
decrease of $26 million from December 31, 2001. Cash flows from operating
activities in 2002 provided cash of $596 million, which was used to fund
investing and financing activities, which required cash of $622 million. Cash
flows from operating activities in 2001 provided cash of $466 million, which was
used to fund investing and financing activities, which required cash of $515
million.

     Cash Flows from Operating Activities

     Net cash from operating activities for 2002 was $131 million higher than
the 2001 level. This increase was primarily due to improved operating
performance, our ability to accelerate the tax deduction for certain operating
expenses resulting from Internal Revenue Service rule changes enacted in 2002,
efficiencies in our billing and collection processes, and a reduction in SBCL
integration costs paid. The increase was partially offset by settlement
payments, primarily related to contractual disputes previously reserved for, and
a decrease in the tax benefits realized associated with the exercise of employee
stock options. The year-over-year comparisons were also impacted by the payment
of indemnifiable tax matters to GlaxoSmithKline in 2002 and cash received from
Corning Incorporated in 2001 related to an indemnified billing-related claim.
Days sales outstanding, a measure of billing and collection efficiency,
decreased to 49 days at December 31, 2002 from 54 days at December 31, 2001.

     Net cash from operating activities for 2001 was $96 million higher than the
2000 level. Excluding a $47 million increase in cash from operations for 2000,
associated with the accounting for book overdrafts, the increase in net cash
from operating activities for 2001 was $144 million, compared to the prior year.
This increase was primarily due to improved operating performance, partially
offset by increased employee incentive payments and the costs to settle our
interest rate swap agreements.









     Cash Flows from Investing Activities

     Net cash used in investing activities in 2002 was $477 million, consisting
primarily of acquisition and related costs of $334 million, primarily to acquire
the outstanding voting stock of AML, and capital expenditures of $155 million.

     Net cash used in investing activities in 2001 was $297 million, consisting
primarily of acquisition and related transaction costs of $153 million, capital
expenditures of $149 million, and an increase in investments of $20 million,
partially offset by $23 million in proceeds from the disposition of assets,
including $21 million from the sale of an investment in the second quarter of
2001. Acquisition and related costs included $47 million to acquire the assets
of Clinical Laboratories of Colorado, LLC in Denver, Colorado; $18 million to
acquire the outstanding voting shares that we did not already own of MedPlus,
Inc., a leading developer and integrator of clinical connectivity and data
management solutions for healthcare organizations and clinicians; $62 million to
acquire all of the voting stock of Clinical Diagnostic Services, Inc., which
operated a diagnostic testing laboratory and over 50 patient service centers in
New York and New Jersey; and $18.5 million to acquire the assets of Las Marias
Reference Lab Corp. and Laboratorio Clinico Las Marias, Inc., in San Juan,
Puerto Rico.

     Cash Flows from Financing Activities

     Net cash used in financing activities in 2002 was $145 million, consisting
primarily of the net cash activity associated with the financing of the AML
acquisition, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We
financed AML's all-cash purchase price of approximately $335 million and related
transaction costs, together with the repayment of approximately $150 million of
acquired AML debt and accrued interest with cash on-hand, $300 million of
borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility and $175 million of
borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility. During the last three
quarters of 2002, we repaid all of the $475 million in borrowings related to the
acquisition of AML.

     Net cash used in financing activities for 2001 was $218 million, consisting
primarily of the net cash activity associated with new borrowings and debt
repayments, primarily related to our debt refinancings in the second and fourth
quarters of 2001, partially offset by $26 million of proceeds from the exercise
of stock options.

     On June 27, 2001, we refinanced a majority of our long-term debt on a
senior unsecured basis to reduce overall interest costs and obtain less
restrictive covenants. Specifically, we completed a $550 million senior notes
offering (the "Senior Notes") and entered into a new $500 million senior
unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") which included a $175 million
term loan. We used the net proceeds from the senior notes offering and new term
loan, together with cash on hand, to repay all of the $584 million which was
outstanding under our then existing senior secured credit facility, including
the costs to settle existing interest rate swap agreements, and to consummate a
cash tender offer and consent solicitation for our Subordinated Notes. The
Senior Notes and borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our
domestic wholly owned subsidiaries that operate clinical laboratories in the
United States. The Senior Notes and Credit Agreement are further described in
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     In conjunction with the cash tender offer for the Subordinated Notes, $147
million in aggregate principal amount, or 98% of the $150 million of outstanding
Subordinated Notes was tendered. In addition, we received the requisite consents
from the holders of Subordinated Notes to amend the indenture governing the
Subordinated Notes to eliminate substantially all of its restrictive provisions.
We made payments of $160 million to holders with respect to the cash tender
offer and consent solicitation, including tender premium and related
solicitation and banking fees, and accrued interest. During the fourth quarter
of 2001, we used cash on hand to redeem all of the remaining $2.5 million of our
outstanding Subordinated Notes.

     We incurred $31 million of costs associated with the debt refinancing. Of
that amount, $12.4 million represented costs associated with placing the new
debt which will be amortized over the term of the Senior Notes and Credit
Agreement and $6 million represented the cost to terminate the interest rate
swap agreements on the debt which was refinanced. The remaining $12.8 million
represented primarily the tender premium incurred in conjunction with our cash
tender offer of the Subordinated Notes which was included in the extraordinary
loss recorded in the second quarter of 2001 as discussed in Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     During the third quarter of 2001, we used cash on hand to prepay $50
million of the $175 million term loan under our Credit Agreement. During the
fourth quarter of 2001, we used cash on hand to repay the remaining balance
outstanding of $125 million under the term loan included in our Credit
Agreement. Also during the fourth quarter of








2001, we used cash on hand to redeem all of our outstanding shares of preferred
stock for $1 million plus accrued dividends.

     On November 26, 2001, we completed our $250 million offering of the
Debentures. The net proceeds of the offering, together with cash on hand, were
used to repay all of the $256 million principal that was outstanding under our
secured receivables credit facility. The borrowing capacity under our secured
receivables credit facility, totaling $250 million at December 31, 2002, remains
available to us for future general corporate purposes and acquisitions.

     The Debentures are guaranteed by our domestic wholly owned subsidiaries
that operate clinical laboratories in the United States and do not have a
sinking fund requirement. The Debentures, which pay a fixed rate of interest
semi-annually commencing on May 31, 2002, have a contingent interest component
that will require us to pay contingent interest based on certain thresholds, as
outlined in the Indenture. For income tax purposes, the Debentures are
considered to be a contingent payment security. As such, interest expense for
tax purposes is based on an assumed interest rate related to a comparable fixed
interest rate debt security issued by the Company without a conversion feature.
The assumed rate was 7% at both December 31, 2002 and 2001.

     We may call the Debentures at any time on or after November 30, 2004 for
the principal amount of the Debentures plus any accrued and unpaid interest. On
November 30, 2004, 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2016 each holder of the Debentures may
require us to repurchase the holder's Debentures for the principal amount of the
Debentures plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We may repurchase the
Debentures for cash, common stock, or a combination of both. Our current intent
is to settle repurchases in cash.

     We incurred $3.3 million of costs associated with the issuance of the
Debentures, which will be amortized through November 30, 2004, the initial date
the holders of the Debentures may require us to repurchase the Debentures.

     Stock Split

     On May 8, 2001, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's
restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of common shares
authorized from 100 million shares to 300 million shares. On May 31, 2001, we
effected a two-for-one stock split through the issuance of a stock dividend of
one new share of common stock for each share of common stock held by
stockholders of record on May 16, 2001. References to the number of common
shares and per common share amounts in the accompanying consolidated statements
of operations, including earnings per common share calculations and related
disclosures, have been restated to give retroactive effect to the stock split
for all periods presented.

     Dividend Policy

     We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do
not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.

     Contractual Obligations and Commitments

     The following table summarizes certain of our contractual obligations as of
December 31, 2002. See Notes 12 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for further details.



     See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description
of the terms of our indebtedness and related debt service requirements. A full
discussion and analysis regarding our minimum rental commitments under









noncancelable operating leases, noncancelable commitments to purchase products
or services, and reserves with respect to insurance and billing-related claims
is contained in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Standby letters of credit are obtained, principally in support of our risk
management program, to ensure our performance or payment to third parties and
amounted to $33 million at December 31, 2002. See Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a full description of our standby letters of credit.

     Our Credit Agreement relating to our unsecured revolving credit facility
contains various covenants and conditions, including the maintenance of certain
financial ratios, that could impact our ability to, among other things, incur
additional indebtedness, repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock, make
additional investments and consummate acquisitions. We do not expect these
covenants to adversely impact our ability to execute our growth strategy.

     On September 24, 2002, we reduced the size of our secured receivables
credit facility from $300 million to $250 million, because our borrowing
capacity and cash generation are more than sufficient to meet our current and
anticipated needs. Prompting our decision to reduce the size of the secured
receivables credit facility was the decision by one of the banks to not renew
its participation. Another bank in the group offered to increase its
participation to fully offset the exiting bank. We did not accept this offer for
the reasons cited above.

     Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

     At December 31, 2002, we had investments in unconsolidated joint ventures
in Phoenix, Arizona; Indianapolis, Indiana; Dayton, Ohio; and, as a result of
the AML acquisition, Chesapeake, Virginia, which are accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. We believe that our transactions with our joint
ventures are conducted at arm's length, reflecting current market conditions and
pricing. Total net revenues of our unconsolidated joint ventures, on a combined
basis, are less than 6% of our consolidated net revenues. Total assets
associated with our unconsolidated joint ventures are less than 3% of our
consolidated total assets. We have no material unconditional obligations or
guarantees to, or in support of, our unconsolidated joint ventures and their
operations.

     Requirements and Capital Resources

     We estimate that we will invest approximately $170 million to $180 million
during 2003 for capital expenditures to support and expand our existing
operations, principally related to investments in information technology,
equipment, and facility upgrades. Other than the reduction for outstanding
letters of credit, which approximated $33 million at December 31, 2002, all of
the $325 million revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement and all of
the $250 million secured receivables credit facility remained available to us
for future borrowing at December 31, 2002.

     On February 26, 2003, we accepted for payment more than 99% of the
outstanding capital stock of Unilab, the leading independent clinical laboratory
in California. On February 28, 2003, we acquired the remaining shares of Unilab
through a merger. In connection with the acquisition, we issued approximately
7.4 million shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock (including 0.3 million
shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock reserved for outstanding stock options
of Unilab which were converted upon the completion of the acquisition into
options to acquire shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock), paid $297 million
in cash and we plan to repay substantially all of Unilab's outstanding
indebtedness. We financed the cash portion of the purchase price, and related
transaction costs, and expect to finance the repayment of substantially all of
Unilab's existing debt with the proceeds from a new $450 million amortizing term
loan and cash on-hand.

     In conjunction with the acquisition of Unilab, on February 6, 2003, we
commenced a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding $100.8 million
principal amount of Unilab 12 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2009. We expect
to finance the cash tender offer and consent solicitation, including tender
premium and related solicitation and banking fees estimated at approximately $25
million, with a combination of cash on-hand and borrowings under the term loan.
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of
this transaction.

     We believe that cash from operations and our borrowing capacity under our
unsecured revolving credit facility and secured receivables credit facility will
provide sufficient financial flexibility to meet seasonal working capital
requirements and to fund capital expenditures, debt service requirements and
additional growth opportunities for the foreseeable future. Improvements in our
industry and in particular our financial performance have resulted in
improvements to our credit ratings from both Standard & Poor's and Moody's
Investor Services. Our investment grade credit ratings have had a favorable
impact on our cost of and access to capital. We believe that our improved
financial









performance should provide us with access to additional financing, if necessary,
to fund growth opportunities that cannot be funded from existing sources.

Outlook

     As discussed in the Overview, we believe that the underlying fundamentals
of the diagnostic testing industry will continue to improve and that the market
for laboratory testing will expand over the long term at a revenue growth rate
of approximately 5% to 7% per year. We believe that in the short term, the
revenue growth rate will continue closer to the low end of the range. As the
leading national provider of diagnostic testing, information and services with
the most extensive network of laboratories and patient service centers
throughout the United States, Quest Diagnostics will be able to further enhance
patient access and customer service. We provide a broad range of benefits for
customers including: continued improvements in quality; convenience and
accessibility; a broad test menu; and a broad range of medical information
products to help providers and insurers better manage their patients' health.

     We continue to invest in areas that are differentiating us from our
competitors including: Six Sigma quality, which is benefiting margins by
improving efficiencies and is beginning to attract new business by improving
service quality; state-of-the-art electronic client connectivity options that
enhance customer loyalty; and new tests and testing techniques including
gene-based testing. We also pursue selective acquisitions when they make
strategic and economic sense. While there are fewer large acquisition
opportunities available as a result of industry consolidation, there remain
numerous regional and local acquisition opportunities. Additionally, we see an
opportunity to use our strong customer service capabilities to expand our
current position in many markets around the country.

     Our credit profile continues to improve and is expected to remain strong
following the completion of the Unilab transaction. Our strong cash generation
and balance sheet position us well to take advantage of growth opportunities.

Inflation

     We believe that inflation generally does not have a material adverse effect
on our operations or financial condition because the majority of our contracts
are short term.

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

     In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements
No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections". In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities". In November 2002, the FASB issued
Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others". In
December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation - Transition and Disclosure - an amendment of FASB Statement No.
123".

     The impact of the above referenced accounting standards is discussed in
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.









         STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The management of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is responsible for the
preparation, presentation and integrity of the consolidated financial statements
and other information included in this annual report. The financial statements
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America and include certain amounts based on
management's best estimates and judgments.

     Quest Diagnostics maintains a comprehensive system of internal controls
designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the financial
statements as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized use or disposition.
The system is reinforced by written policies, selection and training of highly
competent financial personnel, appropriate division of responsibilities and a
program of internal audits.

     The Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible
for reviewing and monitoring Quest Diagnostics' financial reporting and
accounting practices and the annual appointment of the independent accountants.
The Audit and Finance Committee is comprised solely of non-management directors
who are, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, free from any relationship
that would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment. The Audit and
Finance Committee meets periodically with management, the internal auditors and
the independent accountants to review and assess the activities of each. Both
the independent accountants and the internal auditors meet with the Audit and
Finance Committee, without management present, to review the results of their
audits and their assessment of the adequacy of the system of internal accounting
controls and the quality of financial reporting.

     The consolidated financial statements have been audited by our independent
accountants, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Their responsibility is to express an
independent, professional opinion with respect to the consolidated financial
statements on the basis of an audit conducted in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States of America.


/s/  Kenneth W. Freeman
- -----------------------
     Kenneth W. Freeman
     Chairman of the Board and
     Chief Executive Officer


/s/  Robert A. Hagemann
- -----------------------
     Robert A. Hagemann
     Vice President and
     Chief Financial Officer









Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 15 (a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the
"Company") at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a)(2) presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), which changed
the method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets effective
January 1, 2002.


/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- -------------------------------

     PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
     New York, New York
     January 21, 2003, except as to Note 18, which is as of February 28, 2003


                                      F-1







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 2002 and 2001
                      (in thousands, except per share data)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                                      F-2







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
               FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                     (in thousands, except per share data)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                                      F-3







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                                 (in thousands)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                                      F-4







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                                (in thousands)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                                      F-5







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

1.   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

     Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries ("Quest Diagnostics" or
the "Company") is the largest clinical laboratory testing business in the United
States. Prior to January 1, 1997, Quest Diagnostics was a wholly owned
subsidiary of Corning Incorporated ("Corning"). On December 31, 1996, Corning
distributed all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company to the
stockholders of Corning as part of the "Spin-Off Distribution."

     As the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing and related services
for the healthcare industry, Quest Diagnostics offers a broad range of clinical
laboratory testing services to physicians, hospitals, managed care
organizations, employers, governmental institutions and other independent
clinical laboratories. Quest Diagnostics is the leading provider of esoteric
testing, including gene-based testing, and testing for drugs of abuse. The
Company is also a leading provider of anatomic pathology services and testing to
support clinical trials of new pharmaceuticals worldwide. Through the Company's
national network of laboratories and patient service centers, and its esoteric
testing laboratory and development facilities, Quest Diagnostics offers
comprehensive and innovative diagnostic testing, information and related
services used by physicians and other healthcare customers to diagnose, treat
and monitor diseases and other medical conditions.

     During 2002, Quest Diagnostics processed over 115 million requisitions
through its extensive network of laboratories and patient service centers in
virtually every major metropolitan area throughout the United States.

2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Principles of Consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities
controlled by the Company. The equity method of accounting is used for
investments in affiliates which are not Company controlled, in which the
Company's ownership interest is between 20 and 50 percent and in which the
Company has significant influence. The Company's share of equity earnings from
investments in affiliates, accounted for under the equity method, totaled $16.7
million, $10.8 million and $5.5 million, respectively, for 2002, 2001 and 2000.
The Company's share of equity earnings is included in "other, net" in the
consolidated statements of operations. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

     Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

     Revenue Recognition

     The Company primarily recognizes revenue for services rendered upon
completion of the testing process. Billings for services under third-party payer
programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of
allowances for differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts
under such programs. Adjustments to the estimated receipts, based on final
settlement with the third-party payers, are recorded upon settlement. In 2002,
2001 and 2000, approximately 15%, 14% and 13%, respectively, of net revenues
were generated by Medicare and Medicaid programs. Under capitated agreements
with managed care customers, the Company recognizes revenue based on a
predetermined monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan
regardless of the number or cost of services provided by the Company.


                                      F-6







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
                             STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     Taxes on Income

     The Company uses the asset and liability approach to account for income
taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
the expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using tax rates in
effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period when the change is enacted.

     Earnings Per Share

     On May 8, 2001, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's
restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of common shares
authorized from 100 million shares to 300 million shares. On May 31, 2001, the
Company effected a two-for-one stock split through the issuance of a stock
dividend of one new share of common stock for each share of common stock held by
stockholders of record on May 16, 2001. References to the number of common
shares and per common share amounts in the accompanying consolidated statements
of operations, including earnings per common share calculations and related
disclosures, have been restated to give retroactive effect to the stock split
for all periods presented.

     Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net income, less
preferred stock dividends ($30 per quarter in 2001 and 2000), by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share
is calculated by dividing net income, less preferred stock dividends, by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding after giving effect to all
potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period. The if-
onverted method is used in determining the dilutive effect of the Company's
1 3/4% contingent convertible debentures in periods when the holders of such
securities are permitted to exercise their conversion rights (see Note 12).
Potentially dilutive common shares include outstanding stock options and
restricted common shares granted under the Company's Employee Equity
Participation Program. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company redeemed
all of its then issued and outstanding shares of preferred stock.

     The computation of basic and diluted earnings before extraordinary loss per
common share was as follows (in thousands except per share data):

                                               2002       2001       2000
                                             --------   -------    --------

Income before extraordinary loss..........   $322,154   $183,912   $104,948
Less: Preferred stock dividends...........         --        118        118
                                             --------   --------   --------
Income before extraordinary loss available
   to common stockholders.................   $322,154   $183,794   $104,830
                                             ========   ========   ========

Weighted average number of common shares
   outstanding - basic....................     96,467     93,053     89,525

Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options.............................      2,879      3,854      4,191
Restricted common stock...................        444        703        584
                                             --------   --------   --------

Weighted average number of common shares
   outstanding - diluted..................     99,790     97,610     94,300
                                             ========   ========   ========

Basic earnings per common share:
Income before extraordinary loss..........   $   3.34   $   1.98   $   1.17
                                             ========   ========   ========

Diluted earnings per common share:
Income before extraordinary loss..........   $   3.23   $   1.88   $   1.11
                                             ========   ========   ========

     The following securities were not included in the diluted earnings per
share calculation due to their antidilutive effect (in thousands):

                                                 2002    2001   2000
                                                -----   -----   ----

Stock options................................   2,352   1,820    126
Restricted common stock......................      --      20     22


                                      F-7







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
                             STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     Stock-Based Compensation

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), as amended by SFAS No. 148,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure - an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 123" ("SFAS 148") encourages, but does not
require, companies to record compensation cost for stock-based compensation
plans at fair value. In addition, SFAS 148 provides alternative methods of
transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation, and amends the disclosure requirements of
SFAS 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial
statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation
and the effect of the method used on reported results.

     The Company has chosen to adopt the disclosure only provisions of SFAS 148
and continue to account for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value
method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"), and related
interpretations. Under this approach, the cost of restricted stock awards is
expensed over their vesting period, while the imputed cost of stock option
grants and discounts offered under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan
("ESPP") is disclosed, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants,
but not charged to expense. Stock-based compensation expense recorded in
accordance with APB 25, relating to restricted stock awards, was $9 million,
$21 million and $25 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     The Company has several stock ownership and compensation plans, which are
described more fully in Note 14. The following table presents net income and
basic and diluted earnings per common share, had the Company elected to
recognize compensation cost based on the fair value at the grant dates for stock
option awards and discounts granted for stock purchases under the Company's
ESPP, consistent with the method prescribed by SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148:

                                               2002       2001       2000
                                             --------   --------   --------

Net income, as reported...................   $322,154   $162,303   $102,052
Add: Stock-based compensation under
   APB 25.................................      9,028     20,672     24,592
Deduct:  Total stock-based compensation
   expense determined under fair value
   method for all awards, net of related
   tax effects............................    (47,393)   (45,079)   (45,024)
                                             --------   --------   --------
Pro forma net income......................   $283,789   $137,896   $ 81,620
                                             ========   ========   ========

Earnings per common share:
Basic - as reported.......................   $   3.34   $   1.74   $   1.14
                                             --------   --------   --------
Basic - pro forma.........................   $   2.94   $   1.48   $   0.91
                                             --------   --------   --------

Diluted - as reported.....................   $   3.23   $   1.66   $   1.08
                                             --------   --------   --------
Diluted - pro forma.......................   $   2.87   $   1.41   $   0.86
                                             --------   --------   --------

     The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:

                                                 2002         2001     2000
                                                 ----         ----     ----

Dividend yield............................        0.0%         0.0%     0.0%
Risk-free interest rate...................        4.2%         5.1%     6.5%
Expected volatility.......................       45.2%        47.7%    43.7%
Expected holding period, in years.........         5            5        5


                                      F-8







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     Foreign Currency

     Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
dollars at year-end exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year. The translation adjustments
are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
within stockholders' equity. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions
are included in consolidated income. Transaction gains and losses have not been
material.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents include all highly-liquid investments with
maturities, at the time acquired by the Company, of three months or less.

     Concentration of Credit Risk

     Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk are principally cash, cash equivalents, short-term
investments and accounts receivable. The Company's policy is to place its cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments in highly rated financial
instruments and institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect to
accounts receivable is mitigated by the diversity of the Company's clients and
their dispersion across many different geographic regions, and is limited to
certain customers who are large buyers of the Company's services. To reduce
risk, the Company routinely assesses the financial strength of these customers
and, consequently, believes that its accounts receivable credit risk exposure,
with respect to these customers, is limited. While the Company has receivables
due from federal and state governmental agencies, the Company does not believe
that such receivables represent a credit risk since the related healthcare
programs are funded by federal and state governments, and payment is primarily
dependent on submitting appropriate documentation.

     Inventories

     Inventories, which consist principally of supplies, are valued at the lower
of cost (first in, first out method) or market.

     Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Major renewals and
improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as
incurred. Costs incurred for computer software developed or obtained for
internal use are capitalized for application development activities and expensed
as incurred for preliminary project activities and post-implementation
activities. Capitalized costs include external direct costs of materials and
services consumed in developing or obtaining internal-use software, payroll and
payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who
devote time to the internal-use software project and interest costs incurred,
when material, while developing internal-use software. Capitalization of such
costs ceases when the project is substantially complete and ready for its
intended purpose. Certain costs, such as maintenance and training, are expensed
as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active
construction period of major capital projects. Capitalized interest is added to
the cost of the underlying assets and is amortized over the useful lives of the
assets. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method
over expected useful asset lives as follows: buildings and improvements, ranging
from ten to thirty years; laboratory equipment and furniture and fixtures,
ranging from three to seven years; leasehold improvements, the lesser of the
useful life of the improvement or the remaining life of the building or lease,
as applicable; and computer software developed or obtained for internal use,
ranging from three to five years.

     Goodwill

     Goodwill represents the cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair
value of assets acquired, including separately recognized intangible assets,
less the fair value of liabilities assumed in a business combination. In July
2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 142,
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), which broadens the criteria
for recording intangible assets separate from goodwill and requires the use of a
nonamortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and certain
intangibles. Under a nonamortization approach, goodwill and certain intangibles
are not amortized into results of operations, but instead are reviewed for
impairment. Prior to July 1, 2001, goodwill was amortized on the straight-line
method over periods not exceeding forty years. Pursuant to SFAS 142, goodwill
recorded in connection with acquisitions consummated prior to July 1, 2001
continued to be amortized through December 31, 2001 and has not been amortized
thereafter. In addition, goodwill recognized in connection with acquisitions
consummated after June 30, 2001 has not been amortized.


                                       F-9







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     The following table presents net income, income before extraordinary loss
and basic and diluted earnings per common share, adjusted to reflect results as
if the nonamortization provisions of SFAS 142 had been in effect for the periods
presented:



     Intangible Assets

     Intangible assets are recognized as an asset apart from goodwill if the
asset arises from contractual or other legal rights, or if it is separable.
Intangible assets, principally representing the cost of customer lists and
non-competition agreements acquired, are capitalized and amortized on the
straight-line method over their expected useful life, which generally ranges
from five to fifteen years. The Company does not have any intangible assets that
have an indefinite useful life.

     Recoverability and Impairment of Goodwill

     The new criteria for recording intangible assets separate from goodwill did
not require the Company to reclassify any of its intangible assets. Under the
nonamortization provisions of SFAS 142, goodwill and certain intangibles are not
amortized into results of operations, but instead are reviewed for impairment
and an impairment charge is recorded in the periods in which the recorded
carrying value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more than its estimated
fair value. The provisions of SFAS 142 require that a transitional impairment
test be performed as of the beginning of the year the statement is adopted. The
provisions of SFAS 142 also require that a goodwill impairment test be performed
annually or in the case of other events that indicate a potential impairment.
The Company's transitional impairment test indicated that there was no
impairment of goodwill upon adoption of SFAS 142 effective January 1, 2002. The
annual impairment test of goodwill was performed at the end of the Company's
fiscal year on December 31st and indicated that there was no impairment of
goodwill as of December 31, 2002.

     Effective January 1, 2002, the Company evaluates the recoverability and
measures the potential impairment of its goodwill under SFAS 142. The impairment
test is a two-step process that begins with the estimation of the fair value of
the reporting unit. The first step screens for potential impairment and the
second step measures the amount of the impairment, if any. Management's estimate
of fair value considers publicly available information regarding the market
capitalization of the Company as well as (i) publicly available information
regarding comparable publicly-traded companies in the clinical laboratory
testing industry, (ii) the financial projections and future prospects of the
Company's business, including its growth opportunities and likely operational
improvements, and (iii) comparable sales prices, if available. As part of the
first step to assess potential impairment, management compares the estimate of
fair


                                      F-10







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

value for the Company to the book value of the Company's consolidated net
assets. If the book value of the consolidated net assets is greater than the
estimate of fair value, the Company would then proceed to the second step to
measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value
of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is determined by
allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and
liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a
business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase
price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the
reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the
implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's
goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will be
recognized in the amount of the excess. Management believes its estimation
methods are reasonable and reflective of common valuation practices.

     On a quarterly basis, management performs a review of the Company's
business to determine if events or changes in circumstances have occurred which
could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the Company and its
goodwill. If such events or changes in circumstances were deemed to have
occurred, the Company would perform an impairment test of goodwill as of the end
of the quarter, consistent with the annual impairment test, and record any noted
impairment loss.

     Prior to 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability and measured the
possible impairment of goodwill under APB Opinion No. 17, "Intangible Assets"
based on a fair value methodology. The fair value method was applied to each of
the regional laboratories. Management's estimate of fair value was primarily
based on multiples of forecasted revenue or multiples of forecasted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"). The multiples
were primarily determined based upon publicly available information regarding
comparable publicly-traded companies in the industry, but also considered (i)
the financial projections of each regional laboratory, (ii) the future prospects
of each regional laboratory, including its growth opportunities, managed care
concentration and likely operational improvements, and (iii) comparable sales
prices, if available. During 2001 and 2000, no impairments of goodwill were
recorded.

     Recoverability and Impairment of Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived
Assets

     Effective January 1, 2002, the Company evaluates the possible impairment of
its long-lived assets, including intangible assets which are amortized pursuant
to the provisions of SFAS 142, under SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"). The Company reviews the
recoverability of its long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances
occur that indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.
Evaluation of possible impairment is based on the Company's ability to recover
the asset from the expected future pretax cash flows (undiscounted and without
interest charges) of the related operations. If the expected undiscounted pretax
cash flows are less than the carrying amount of such asset, an impairment loss
is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair value and carrying
amount of the asset. The Company's adoption of SFAS 144 did not result in any
impairment loss being recorded.

     Investments

     The Company accounts for investments in equity securities, which are
included in other assets, in conformity with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" ("SFAS 115"), which requires
the use of fair value accounting for trading or available-for-sale securities.
Unrealized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are recorded as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders'
equity. Gains and losses on securities sold are based on the average cost
method. "Other, net" for the year ended December 31, 2001 included a gain of
$6.3 million associated with the sale of certain investments accounted for under
SFAS 115. Investments in equity securities have not been material to the
Company.

     Financial Instruments

     The Company's policy for managing exposure to market risks may include the
use of financial instruments, including derivatives. The Company has established
a control environment that includes policies and procedures for risk assessment
and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative financial instrument
activities. These policies prohibit holding or issuing derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes.

     SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" ("SFAS 133"), as amended, requires that all derivative instruments
be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value
of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of
a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS 133, as amended.The


                                      F-11







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

cumulative effect of the change in accounting for derivative financial
instruments upon adoption on January 1, 2001 of SFAS 133, as amended, reduced
comprehensive income by approximately $1 million.

     Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and
accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value based on the short
maturity of these instruments. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair value of
the Company's debt was estimated at $899 million and $857 million, respectively,
using quoted market prices and yields for the same or similar types of
borrowings, taking into account the underlying terms of the debt instruments. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value
of the debt by $77 million and $35 million, respectively.

     The Company's 1 3/4% contingent convertible notes due 2021 have a
contingent interest component that will require the Company to pay contingent
interest based on certain thresholds, as outlined in the Indenture. The
contingent interest component, which is more fully described in Note 12, is
considered to be a derivative instrument subject to SFAS 133, as amended. As
such, the derivative was recorded at its fair value in the consolidated balance
sheets and was not material at both December 31, 2002 and 2001.

     Comprehensive Income

     Comprehensive income encompasses all changes in stockholders' equity
(except those arising from transactions with stockholders) and includes net
income, net unrealized capital gains or losses on available-for-sale securities
and foreign currency translation adjustments.

     Segment Reporting

     The Company currently operates in one reportable business segment.
Substantially all of the Company's services are provided within the United
States, and substantially all of the Company's assets are located within the
United States. No one customer accounted for ten percent or more of net sales in
2002, 2001, or 2000.

     New Accounting Standards

     In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements
No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections" ("SFAS 145"). SFAS 145 rescinds SFAS No. 4, "Reporting Gains and
Losses from Extinguishment of Debt" ("SFAS 4"), SFAS No. 44, "Accounting for
Intangible Assets of Motor Carriers" ("SFAS 44") and SFAS No. 64,
"Extinguishments of Debt Made to Satisfy Sinking-Fund Requirements" ("SFAS 64")
and amends SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases" ("SFAS 13"). This statement
updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting pronouncements. As a
result of rescinding SFAS 4 and SFAS 64, the criteria in APB Opinion No. 30,
"Reporting the Results of Operations-Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring
Events and Transactions", will be used to classify gains and losses from
extinguishment of debt. SFAS 44 was no longer necessary because the transitions
under the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 were completed. SFAS 13 was amended to
eliminate an inconsistency between the required accounting for sale-leaseback
transactions and the required accounting for certain lease modifications that
have economic effects that are similar to sale-leaseback transactions and makes
technical corrections to existing pronouncements. The provisions of SFAS 145 are
effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002, with earlier
application encouraged. The Company will adopt SFAS 145 effective January 1,
2003 and reflect any necessary reclassifications in its consolidated statements
of operations. The adoption of SFAS 145 will not have a material impact on the
Company's financial position.

     In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" ("SFAS 146"), which addresses the
recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs associated with exit or
disposal activities, and supercedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94-3,
"Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs
to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)"
("EITF 94-3"). The principal difference between SFAS 146 and EITF 94-3 relates
to the requirements for recognition of a liability for a cost associated with an
exit or disposal activity. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost
associated with an exit or disposal activity, including those related to
employee termination benefits and obligations under operating leases and other
contracts, be recognized when the liability is incurred, and not necessarily the
date of an entity's commitment to an exit plan, as under EITF 94-3. SFAS 146
also establishes that the initial measurement of a liability recognized under
SFAS 146 be based on fair value. The provisions of SFAS 146 are effective for
exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with
early application encouraged. The Company will adopt SFAS 146 effective January
1, 2003.


                                      F-12







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 requires a guarantor to
recognize a liability, at the inception of the guarantee, for the fair value of
obligations it has undertaken in issuing the guarantee and also include more
detailed disclosures with respect to guarantees. FIN 45 is effective on a
prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified starting January 1, 2003 and
requires the additional disclosures in its interim and annual financial
statements effective for the period ended December 31, 2002. The Company will
adopt the initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of FIN 45
effective January 1, 2003, and does not expect that the provisions of FIN 45
will have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial
position.

3.   BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

     2002 Acquisitions

     On April 1, 2002, the Company completed its acquisition of all of the
outstanding voting stock of American Medical Laboratories, Incorporated, ("AML")
and an affiliated company of AML, LabPortal, Inc. ("LabPortal"), a provider of
electronic connectivity products, in an all-cash transaction with a combined
value of approximately $500 million, which included the assumption of
approximately $160 million in debt.

     Through the acquisition of AML, Quest Diagnostics acquired all of AML's
operations, including two full-service laboratories, 51 patient service centers,
and hospital sales, service and logistics capabilities. The all-cash purchase
price of approximately $335 million and related transaction costs, together with
the repayment of approximately $150 million of principal and related accrued
interest, representing substantially all of AML's debt, was financed by Quest
Diagnostics with cash on-hand, $300 million of borrowings under its secured
receivables credit facility and $175 million of borrowings under its unsecured
revolving credit facility. During 2002, Quest Diagnostics repaid all of the $475
million in borrowings related to the acquisition of AML.

     The acquisition of AML was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. As such, the cost to acquire AML has been allocated to the assets
and liabilities acquired based on estimated fair values as of the closing date.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of AML
subsequent to the closing of the acquisition.

     The following table summarizes the Company's purchase price allocation
related to the acquisition of AML based on the estimated fair value of the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date.

                                              Fair Values
                                                 as of
                                             April 1, 2002
                                             -------------
Current assets............................      $ 83,403
Property, plant and equipment.............        31,475
Goodwill..................................       426,314
Other assets..............................         8,211
                                                --------
   Total assets acquired..................       549,403
                                                --------

Current portion of long-term debt.........        11,834
Other current liabilities.................        51,403
Long-term debt............................       139,465
Other liabilities.........................         4,925
                                                --------
   Total liabilities assumed..............       207,627
                                                --------

   Net assets acquired....................      $341,776
                                                ========

     Based on management's review of the net assets acquired and consultations
with valuation specialists, no intangible assets meeting the criteria under SFAS
No. 141, "Business Combinations", were identified. Of the $426 million allocated
to goodwill, approximately $17 million is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes.


                                      F-13







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     The following unaudited pro forma combined financial information for each
of the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 assumes that the AML acquisition
was effected on January 1, 2001 (in thousands, except per share data):

                                                           2002         2001
                                                        ----------   ----------
Net revenues.........................................   $4,186,466   $3,925,418
Income before extraordinary loss.....................      321,751      192,955
Net income...........................................      321,751      171,346

Basic earnings per common share:
Income before extraordinary loss.....................   $     3.34   $     2.07
Net income...........................................         3.34         1.84
Weighted average common shares outstanding - basic...       96,467       93,053

Diluted earnings per common share:
Income before extraordinary loss.....................   $     3.22   $     1.98
Net income...........................................         3.22         1.76
Weighted average common shares
   outstanding - diluted.............................       99,790       97,610

     Pro forma results for 2002 exclude $14.5 million of direct transaction
costs incurred and expensed by AML immediately prior to the closing of the AML
acquisition.

     The all-cash purchase price for LabPortal of approximately $4 million and
related transaction costs, together with the repayment of all of LabPortal's
outstanding debt of approximately $7 million and related accrued interest, was
financed by Quest Diagnostics with cash on-hand. The acquisition of LabPortal
was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. As such, the cost to
acquire LabPortal has been allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired
based on estimated fair values as of the closing date, including approximately
$8 million of goodwill. The consolidated financial statements include the
results of operations of LabPortal subsequent to the closing of the acquisition.

     2001 Acquisitions

     During 2001, the Company acquired the assets of Clinical Laboratories of
Colorado, LLC ("CLC") and the assets of Las Marias Reference Lab Corp. and
Laboratorio Clinico Las Marias, Inc., a clinical laboratory based in San Juan,
Puerto Rico ("Las Marias"). During 2001, the Company also acquired the
outstanding voting shares that it did not already own of MedPlus, Inc.
("MedPlus"), a leading developer and integrator of clinical connectivity and
data management solutions for healthcare organizations and clinicians, and all
of the voting stock of Clinical Diagnostic Services, Inc. ("CDS"), which
operates a diagnostic testing laboratory and more than 50 patient service
centers in New York and New Jersey. Additionally, during 2001, the Company
acquired the minority ownership interest of a consolidated joint venture from
its joint venture partner. The combined purchase price for these acquisitions
was $155 million, which was paid primarily in cash.

     The Company accounted for the above acquisitions under the purchase method
of accounting. In connection with the above transactions, the Company recorded
during 2001 $153 million of goodwill, representing acquisition costs in excess
of the fair value of net assets acquired, and approximately $8 million
associated with non-compete agreements. The amounts paid under the non-compete
agreements are being amortized on the straight-line basis over their five-year
terms. During 2002, the Company recorded approximately $4 million of adjustments
to finalize the purchase price allocations associated with businesses acquired
in 2001, primarily related to accruals for integration costs for actions
impacting the employees and operations of the acquired businesses, partially
offset by adjustments to finalize the deferred tax position of the acquired
entities.

     The historical financial statements of Quest Diagnostics include the
results of operations of each acquired company subsequent to the closing of the
respective acquisition.


                                      F-14







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

4.   INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED BUSINESSES

     Integration of American Medical Laboratories, Incorporated

     During the third quarter of 2002, the Company finalized its plan related to
the integration of AML into Quest Diagnostics' laboratory network. The plan
focuses principally on improving customer service by enabling the Company to
perform esoteric testing on the east and west coasts of the United States, and
redirecting certain physician testing volumes within its national network to
provide more local testing. As part of the plan, the Company's Chantilly,
Virginia laboratory, acquired as part of the AML acquisition, will become the
primary esoteric testing laboratory and hospital service center for the eastern
United States and will complement the Company's Nichols Institute esoteric
testing facility in San Juan Capistrano, California. Esoteric testing volumes
will be redirected within the Company's national network to provide customers
with improved turnaround time and customer service. Certain routine clinical
laboratory testing currently performed in the Chantilly, Virginia laboratory
will transition over time to other testing facilities within the Company's
regional laboratory network. A reduction in staffing will occur as the Company
executes the integration plan and consolidates duplicate or overlapping
functions and facilities. Employee groups being affected as a result of this
plan include those involved in the collection and testing of specimens, as well
as administrative and other support functions.

     In connection with the AML integration plan, the Company recorded $11
million of costs associated with executing the plan. The majority of these
integration costs related to employee severance and contractual obligations
associated with leased facilities and equipment. Of the total costs indicated
above, $9.5 million, related to actions that impact the employees and operations
of AML, was accounted for as a cost of the AML acquisition and included in
goodwill. Of the $9.5 million, $5.9 million related to employee severance
benefits for approximately 200 employees, with the remainder primarily related
to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and equipment. In
addition, $1.5 million of integration costs, related to actions that impact
Quest Diagnostics' employees and operations and comprised principally of
employee severance benefits for approximately 100 employees, were accounted for
as a charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2002 and included in "other,
net" within the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2002,
accruals related to the AML integration plan totaled $8.3 million. While the
majority of the integration costs are expected to be paid in 2003, there are
certain severance and facility exit costs that have payment terms extending
beyond 2003.

     Integration of Clinical Diagnostic Services, Inc.

     During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company finalized its plan related
to the integration of CDS into Quest Diagnostics' laboratory network in the New
York metropolitan area. Of the $13.3 million of costs recorded in the fourth
quarter of 2002 in connection with the execution of the CDS integration plan,
all of which were associated with actions impacting the employees and operations
of CDS, $3 million related to employee severance benefits for approximately 150
employees with the remainder primarily associated with remaining contractual
obligations under facility and equipment leases. The costs outlined above were
recorded as a cost of the acquisition and included in goodwill. As of December
31, 2002, accruals related to the CDS integration plan totaled $10.3 million,
substantially all of which represented remaining contractual obligations under
facility leases which have terms extending beyond 2003.

     Integration of SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratory Testing Business

     On August 16, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of SmithKline
Beecham Clinical Laboratories, Inc. ("SBCL") which operated the clinical
laboratory business of SmithKline Beecham plc ("SmithKline Beecham"). During the
fourth quarter of 1999, Quest Diagnostics finalized its plan to integrate SBCL
into Quest Diagnostics' laboratory network and recorded the estimated costs
associated with executing the integration plan. The majority of these
integration costs related to employee severance, contractual obligations
associated with leased facilities and equipment, and the write-off of fixed
assets which management believed would have no future economic benefit upon
combining the operations. The plan focused principally on laboratory
consolidations in geographic markets served by more than one of the Company's
laboratories, and the redirection of testing volume within the Company's
national network to provide more local testing and improve customer service.

     Integration costs, including write-offs of fixed assets, totaling $56
million which related to planned activities affecting SBCL assets, liabilities
and employees, were recorded as a cost of the SBCL acquisition during the fourth
quarter of 1999. Of these costs, $34 million related to employee severance costs
for approximately 1,250 employees, and $13.4 million related to contractual
obligations including those related to facilities and equipment leases. The
remaining portion of the costs was associated with the write-off of assets that
management planned to dispose of in conjunction with the integration of SBCL.
During the third quarter of 2000, a $2.1 million increase to goodwill was
recorded in conjunction with finalizing the SBCL purchase price allocation,
which included a $3.9 million


                                      F-15







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

increase in accruals for employee severance benefits, partially offset by a
reduction in accruals primarily related to facility lease obligations.

     The Company also recorded a $36 million net charge to earnings in the
fourth quarter of 1999 that represented the costs related to planned integration
activities affecting Quest Diagnostics' operations and employees. Of these
costs, $23 million related to employee severance costs for approximately 1,050
employees, $9.7 million related primarily to lease obligations for facilities
and equipment and $6.7 million was associated with the write-off of assets that
management planned to dispose of in conjunction with the integration of SBCL.
During the third quarter of 2000, the Company recorded a $2.1 million reduction
in accruals for employee severance benefits and costs to exit leased facilities,
offset by a charge to write-off fixed assets used in the operations of Quest
Diagnostics.

     The following table summarizes the Company's accruals for integration costs
affecting the acquired operations and employees of SBCL (in millions):

                                  Employee       Costs of
                                  Severance   Exiting Leased
                                    Costs       Facilities     Other   Total
                                  ---------   --------------   -----   ------
Balance, December 31, 1999.....    $ 32.4         $ 5.5        $ 7.8   $ 45.7
Amounts utilized in 2000.......     (16.4)         (2.0)        (5.8)   (24.2)
Adjustment to accruals.........       3.9          (1.6)        (0.2)     2.1
                                   ------         -----        -----   ------
Balance, December 31, 2000.....      19.9           1.9          1.8     23.6
Amounts utilized in 2001.......     (14.7)         (1.4)        (1.2)   (17.3)
                                   ------         -----        -----   ------
Balance, December 31, 2001.....    $  5.2         $ 0.5        $ 0.6   $  6.3
                                   ======         =====        =====   ======

     The following table summarizes the Company's accruals for restructuring
costs associated with the integration of SBCL affecting Quest Diagnostics'
operations and employees (in millions):

                                  Employee       Costs of
                                  Severance   Exiting Leased
                                    Costs       Facilities     Other   Total
                                  ---------   --------------   -----   ------
Balance, December 31, 1999.....    $ 20.9         $ 8.9        $ 0.8   $ 30.6
Amounts utilized in 2000.......     (10.5)         (1.5)        (0.4)   (12.4)
Adjustment to accruals.........      (1.6)         (0.8)         0.3     (2.1)
                                   ------         -----        -----   ------
Balance, December 31, 2000.....       8.8           6.6          0.7     16.1
Amounts utilized in 2001.......      (7.1)         (2.5)        (0.5)   (10.1)
                                   ------         -----        -----   ------
Balance, December 31, 2001.....    $  1.7         $ 4.1        $ 0.2   $  6.0
                                   ======         =====        =====   ======

     The actions associated with the SBCL integration plan, including those
related to severed employees, were completed as of June 30, 2001. The remaining
accruals associated with the SBCL integration plan, principally comprised of
remaining contractual obligations under facility leases, were not material at
December 31, 2002.

5.   TAXES ON INCOME

     In conjunction with the Spin-Off Distribution, the Company entered into a
tax sharing agreement with its former parent and a former subsidiary, that
provide the parties with certain rights of indemnification against each other.
As part of the SBCL acquisition agreements, the Company entered into a tax
indemnification arrangement with SmithKline Beecham that provides the parties
with certain rights of indemnification against each other.

     The Company's pretax income (loss) consisted of $547 million, $332 million
and $203 million from U.S. operations and approximately $(4.5) million, $0.2
million and $(1.6) million from foreign operations for the years ended December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.


                                      F-16







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     The components of income tax expense for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as
follows:



     A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the Company's effective
tax rate for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was as follows:

                                                          2002   2001   2000
                                                          ----   ----   ----

Tax provision at statutory rate........................   35.0%  35.0%  35.0%
State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit...    5.0    5.0    5.6
Non-deductible goodwill amortization...................     --    3.9    6.7
Impact of foreign operations...........................    0.2    0.4    0.4
Non-deductible meals and entertainment expense.........    0.3    0.4    0.7
Other, net.............................................    0.1     --   (0.6)
                                                          ----   ----   ----
   Effective tax rate..................................   40.6%  44.7%  47.8%
                                                          ====   ====   ====

     The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001 were as
follows:

                                                            2002       2001
                                                          --------   --------
Current deferred tax asset:
   Accounts receivable reserve.........................   $ 30,449   $ 34,821
   Liabilities not currently deductible................     67,173    112,069
   Accrued settlement reserves.........................      3,456      7,116
   Accrued restructuring and integration costs.........      1,622      3,643
                                                          --------   --------
      Total............................................   $102,700   $157,649
                                                          ========   ========
Non-current deferred tax asset:
   Liabilities not currently deductible................   $ 42,074   $ 45,595
   Accrued restructuring and integration costs.........      3,334        945
   Depreciation and amortization.......................    (15,652)     6,138
                                                          --------   --------
      Total............................................   $ 29,756   $ 52,678
                                                          ========   ========

     As of December 31, 2002, the Company had estimated net operating loss
carryforwards, for state income tax purposes, of $365 million, which expire at
various dates through 2022. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, deferred tax
assets associated with net operating loss carryforwards of $29 million and $31
million, respectively, have each been reduced by a valuation reserve of $27
million.

     Income taxes payable at December 31, 2002 and 2001 were $20 million and $30
million, respectively, and consisted primarily of federal income taxes payable
of $23 million and $36 million, respectively.


                                      F-17







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

6.   SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW AND OTHER DATA

                                         2002       2001       2000
                                       --------   --------   --------

Depreciation expense................   $123,018   $101,620   $ 88,631

Interest expense....................     56,347     76,765    119,681
Interest income.....................     (2,674)    (6,242)    (6,589)
                                       --------   --------   --------
Interest, net.......................     53,673     70,523    113,092

Interest paid.......................     56,102     58,537    110,227

Income taxes paid...................     83,710     26,384     21,821

Businesses acquired:
Fair value of assets acquired.......   $561,267   $182,136   $(66,013)
Fair value of liabilities assumed...    215,810     29,272     26,212

     During 2000, the Company terminated one of its laboratory network
management agreements with a customer which resulted in a reduction in accounts
receivable and a corresponding decrease in accrued expenses of $69 million,
neither reduction having a cash impact.

7.   PROVISIONS FOR SPECIAL CHARGES

     During the second quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a special charge of
$6.0 million in connection with the refinancing of its debt and settlement of
the Company's interest rate swap agreements. Prior to the Company's debt
refinancing in June 2001 (see Note 12), the Company's senior secured credit
agreement required the Company to maintain interest rate swap agreements to
mitigate the risk of changes in interest rates associated with a portion of its
variable interest rate indebtedness. These interest rate swap agreements were
considered a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows associated
with the interest payments of the Company's variable rate debt obligations.
Accordingly, the interest rate swap agreements were recorded at their estimated
fair value in the Company's consolidated balance sheet and the related losses on
these contracts were deferred in stockholders' equity as a component of
comprehensive income. In conjunction with the debt refinancing, the interest
rate swap agreements were terminated and the losses reflected in stockholders'
equity as a component of comprehensive income were reclassified to earnings and
reflected as a special charge in the consolidated statement of operations for
the year ended December 31, 2001.

     During the second quarter of 2000, the Company recorded a net special
charge of $2.1 million. Of the special charge, $13.4 million represented the
costs to cancel certain contracts that management believed were not economically
viable as a result of the SBCL acquisition. These costs were principally
associated with the cancellation of a co-marketing agreement for clinical trials
testing services. These charges were in large part offset by a reduction in
reserves attributable to a favorable resolution of outstanding claims for
reimbursements associated with billings of certain tests.

8.   EXTRAORDINARY LOSS

     In conjunction with the Company's debt refinancing in the second quarter of
2001, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $36 million ($22 million,
net of taxes). The loss represented the write-off of deferred financing costs of
$23 million, associated with the Company's debt which was refinanced, and $12.8
million of payments related primarily to the tender premium incurred in
connection with the Company's cash tender offer of its 10 3/4% senior
subordinated notes due 2006 (the "Subordinated Notes") (see Note 12).

     An extraordinary loss was recorded in 2000, representing the write-off of
deferred financing costs associated with debt which was prepaid during the
period. During the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company prepaid $155 million of
term loans under its senior secured credit facility. The extraordinary loss
recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000 in connection with this prepayment was
$4.8 million ($2.9 million, net of taxes).


                                      F-18







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

9.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2002 and 2001 consisted of
the following:

                                                        2002        2001
                                                     ----------   ---------

Land..............................................   $   33,148   $  35,331
Buildings and improvements........................      277,565     264,639
Laboratory equipment, furniture and fixtures......      569,982     461,786
Leasehold improvements............................      119,397      98,416
Computer software developed or obtained for
   internal use...................................      101,594      69,278
Construction-in-progress..........................       40,599      42,577
                                                     ----------   ---------
                                                      1,142,285     972,027
Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization...     (572,136)   (463,408)
                                                     ----------   ---------
   Total..........................................   $  570,149   $ 508,619
                                                     ==========   =========

10.  GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Goodwill at December 31, 2002 and 2001 consisted of the following:

                                                        2002         2001
                                                     ----------   ----------

Goodwill..........................................   $1,976,903   $1,539,176
Less: accumulated amortization....................     (188,053)    (188,053)
                                                     ----------   ----------
   Goodwill, net..................................   $1,788,850   $1,351,123
                                                     ==========   ==========

     The changes in the gross carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 are as follows:

                                                        2002         2001
                                                     ----------   ----------

Balance as of January 1...........................   $1,539,176   $1,387,242
Goodwill acquired during the year.................      437,727      151,934
                                                     ----------   ----------
Balance as of December 31.........................   $1,976,903   $1,539,176
                                                     ==========   ==========


                                      F-19







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     Intangible assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001 consisted of the following:



     Amortization expense related to other intangible assets was $8,373, $7,715
and $7,803 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     The estimated amortization expense related to other intangible assets for
each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter as of December 31, 2002
is as follows:

    Fiscal Year Ending
       December 31,
- -------------------------

2003.....................     7,615
2004.....................     6,057
2005.....................     2,633
2006.....................     1,520
2007.....................       769
Thereafter...............     3,489
                            -------
   Total.................   $22,083
                            =======

11.  ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accounts payable and accrued expenses at December 31, 2002 and 2001
consisted of the following:

                                                   2002       2001
                                                 --------   --------

Accrued wages and benefits....................   $250,226   $240,202
Accrued expenses..............................    208,037    247,161
Trade accounts payable........................    111,982    112,962
Income taxes payable..........................     20,268     29,997
Accrued restructuring and integration costs...     10,791      9,107
Accrued settlement reserves...................      8,641     17,790
                                                 --------   --------
   Total......................................   $609,945   $657,219
                                                 ========   ========


                                      F-20







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

12.  DEBT

     Long-term debt at December 31, 2002 and 2001 consisted of the following:

                                                               2002       2001
                                                             --------   --------
6 3/4% Senior Notes due July 2006.........................   $273,907   $273,594
7 1/2% Senior Notes due July 2011.........................    274,060    273,950
1 3/4% Contingent Convertible Debentures
  due November 2021.......................................    247,635    247,510
Other.....................................................     26,937     26,687
                                                             --------   --------
   Total..................................................    822,539    821,741
Less current portion......................................     26,032      1,404
                                                             --------   --------
   Total long-term debt...................................   $796,507   $820,337
                                                             ========   ========

     Credit Agreement

     The Credit Agreement currently includes a $325 million unsecured revolving
credit facility which expires in June 2006. Interest on the unsecured revolving
credit facility is based on certain published rates plus an applicable margin
that will vary over an approximate range of 50 basis points based on changes in
the Company's credit ratings. At the option of the Company, it may elect to
enter into LIBOR-based interest rate contracts for periods up to 180 days.
Interest on any outstanding amounts not covered under the LIBOR-based interest
rate contracts is based on an alternate base rate, which is calculated by
reference to the prime rate or federal funds rate (as defined in the Credit
Agreement). Additionally, the Company has the ability to borrow up to $200
million under the unsecured revolving credit facility at rates determined by a
competitive bidding process among the lenders. As of December 31, 2002, the
Company's borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans was LIBOR plus 1.3125%. As of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no borrowings outstanding under the
unsecured revolving credit facility.

     Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our domestic wholly
owned subsidiaries that operate clinical laboratories in the United States. The
Credit Agreement contains various covenants, including the maintenance of
certain financial ratios, which could impact the Company's ability to, among
other things, incur additional indebtedness, repurchase shares of its
outstanding common stock, make additional investments and consummate
acquisitions.

     Secured Receivables Credit Facility

     On July 21, 2000, the Company completed a receivables-backed financing
transaction (the "secured receivables credit facility"), the proceeds of which
were used to pay down loans outstanding under the Company's then existing senior
secured credit facility that was used to finance the acquisition of SBCL. The
secured receivables credit facility is currently being provided by Blue Ridge
Asset Funding Corporation, a commercial paper funding vehicle administered by
Wachovia Bank, N.A., and La Fayette Asset Securitization LLC, a commercial
funding vehicle administered by Credit Lyonnais.

     Interest on the secured receivables credit facility is based on rates that
are intended to approximate commercial paper rates for highly rated issuers.
Borrowings outstanding under the secured receivables credit facility, if any,
are classified as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet since
the lenders fund the borrowings through the issuance of commercial paper which
matures at various dates up to ninety days from the date of issuance. There were
no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2002 and 2001.

     On September 24, 2002, the Company reduced the size of its secured
receivables credit facility from $300 million to $250 million, because the
Company's borrowing capacity and cash generation are more than sufficient to
meet its current and anticipated needs. Prompting the Company's decision to
reduce the size of the secured receivables credit facility was the decision by
one of the banks to not renew its participation. Another bank in the group
offered to increase its participation to fully offset the exiting bank. The
Company did not accept this offer for the reasons cited above.

     The secured receivables credit facility has the benefit of one-year back-up
facilities, provided on a committed basis. The back-up facility that supports
the funding from Blue Ridge is provided by Wachovia Bank and the back-up
facility that supports the funding from La Fayette is provided by Credit
Lyonnais. Each of these back-up facilities expires on July 21, 2003, the date on
which the secured receivables credit facility expires, unless extended.


                                      F-21







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     Senior Notes

     The Senior Notes were issued in two tranches: (a) $275 million aggregate
principal amount of 6 3/4% senior notes due 2006 ("Senior Notes due 2006"),
issued at a discount of approximately $1.6 million and (b) $275 million
aggregate principal amount of 7 1/2% senior notes due 2011 ("Senior Notes due
2011"), issued at a discount of approximately $1.1 million. After considering
the discounts, the effective interest rate on the Senior Notes due 2006 and
Senior Notes due 2011 is 6.9% and 7.6%, respectively. The Senior Notes require
semiannual interest payments which commenced January 12, 2002. The Senior Notes
are unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with the Company's
other unsecured senior obligations. The Senior Notes are guaranteed by each of
the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries that operate clinical laboratories in
the United States (the "Subsidiary Guarantors") and do not have a sinking fund
requirement.

     1 3/4% Contingent Convertible Debentures

     On November 26, 2001, the Company completed its $250 million offering of 1
3/4% contingent convertible debentures due 2021 (the "Debentures"). The net
proceeds of the offering, together with cash on hand, were used to repay all of
the $256 million principal that was then outstanding under the Company's secured
receivables credit facility. The Debentures, which pay a fixed rate of interest
semi-annually commencing on May 31, 2002, have a contingent interest component,
which is considered to be a derivative instrument subject to SFAS 133, as
amended, that will require the Company to pay contingent interest based on
certain thresholds, as outlined in the Indenture. For income tax purposes, the
Debentures are considered to be a contingent payment security. As such, interest
expense for tax purposes is based on an assumed interest rate related to a
comparable fixed interest rate debt security issued by the Company without a
conversion feature. The assumed interest rate for tax purposes was 7% for both
2002 and 2001.

     The Debentures are guaranteed by the Company's domestic wholly owned
subsidiaries that operate clinical laboratories in the United States and do not
have a sinking fund requirement.

     Each one thousand dollar principal amount of Debentures is convertible
initially into 11.429 shares of the Company's common stock, which represents an
initial conversion price of $87.50 per share. Holders may surrender the
Debentures for conversion into shares of the Company's common stock under any of
the following circumstances: (1) if the sales price of the Company's common
stock is above 120% of the conversion price (or $105 per share) for specified
periods; (2) if the Company calls the Debentures or (3) if specified corporate
transactions have occurred.

     The Company may call the Debentures at any time on or after November 30,
2004 for the principal amount of the Debentures plus any accrued and unpaid
interest. On November 30, 2004, 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2016 each holder of the
Debentures may require the Company to repurchase the holder's Debentures for the
principal amount of the Debentures plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The
Company may repurchase the Debentures for cash, common stock, or a combination
of both. The Company intends to settle any repurchases with a cash payment.

     The Company incurred approximately $3.3 million of costs associated with
the issuance of the Debentures, which will be amortized through November 30,
2004, the initial date the holders of the Debentures may require the Company to
repurchase the Debentures.

     2001 Debt Refinancings

     On June 27, 2001, the Company refinanced a majority of its long-term debt
on a senior unsecured basis to reduce overall interest costs and obtain less
restrictive covenants. Specifically, the Company completed a $550 million senior
notes offering (the "Senior Notes") and entered into a new $500 million senior
unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") which included a five-year
$325 million revolving credit agreement and a $175 million term loan. The
Company used the net proceeds from the senior notes offering and new term loan,
together with cash on hand, to repay all of the $584 million which was
outstanding under its then existing senior secured credit agreement, including
the costs to settle existing interest rate swap agreements, and to consummate a
cash tender offer and consent solicitation for its Subordinated Notes. During
the remainder of 2001, the Company repaid the $175 million term loan under the
Credit Agreement.

     In conjunction with the cash tender offer for the Company's Subordinated
Notes, $147 million in aggregate principal amount, or 98% of the $150 million of
outstanding Subordinated Notes was tendered. In addition, the Company received
the requisite consents from the holders of Subordinated Notes to amend the
indenture governing the Subordinated Notes to eliminate substantially all of its


                                      F-22







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

restrictive provisions. The Company made payments of $160 million to holders
with respect to the cash tender offer and consent solicitation, including tender
premium and related solicitation and banking fees, and accrued interest. On
December 17, 2001, the Company redeemed the remaining Subordinated Notes that
were still outstanding as of that date.

     The Company incurred $31 million of costs associated with this debt
refinancing. Of that amount, $12.4 million represented costs associated with
placing the new debt, which will be amortized over the term of the related debt
and $6.0 million represented the cost to terminate the interest rate swap
agreements on the debt that was refinanced (see Note 7). The remaining $12.8
million represented primarily the tender premium incurred in conjunction with
the Company's cash tender offer of the Subordinated Notes which was included
in the extraordinary loss recorded in the second quarter of 2001 (see Note 8).

     Long-term debt, including capital leases, maturing in each of the years
subsequent to December 31, 2003 is as follows:

Year ending December 31,
2004....................................   $    529
2005....................................        164
2006....................................    274,096
2007....................................         23
2008 and thereafter.....................    521,695
                                           --------
   Total long-term debt.................   $796,507
                                           ========

     The table above assumes that the Debentures are repaid at their stated
maturity in 2021.

13.  PREFERRED STOCK AND COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Series Preferred Stock

     Quest Diagnostics is authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of Series
Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share. The Company's Board of Directors has
the authority to issue such shares without stockholder approval and to determine
the designations, preferences, rights and restrictions of such shares. Of the
authorized shares, 1,300,000 shares have been designated Series A Preferred
Stock and 1,000 shares have been designated Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock.
No shares have been issued, other than the Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock.

     Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock

     During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company redeemed all of the then
issued and outstanding shares of preferred stock for $1 million plus accrued
dividends. The Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock is generally entitled to one
vote per share, voting together as one class with the Company's common stock.
Whenever dividends on the Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock are in arrears, no
dividends or redemptions or purchases of shares may be made with respect to any
stock ranking junior as to dividends or liquidation to the Voting Cumulative
Preferred Stock until all such amounts have been paid. The Voting Cumulative
Preferred Stock is not convertible into shares of any other class or series of
stock of the Company. The Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock ranks senior to the
Quest Diagnostics common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock.

     Preferred Share Purchase Rights

     Each share of Quest Diagnostics common stock trades with a preferred share
purchase right, which entitles stockholders to purchase one-hundredth of a share
of Series A Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain events. In
conjunction with the SBCL acquisition, the Board of Directors of the Company
approved an amendment to the preferred share purchase rights. The amended rights
entitle stockholders to purchase shares of Series A Preferred Stock at a
predefined price in the event a person or group (other than SmithKline Beecham)
acquires 20% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock. The preferred
share purchase rights expire December 31, 2006.


                                      F-23







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

     The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for 2002,
2001 and 2000 were as follows:



     The market value adjustments for 2002, 2001 and 2000 represented unrealized
holding gains (losses), net of taxes.

     For the year ended December 31, 2001, other comprehensive income included
the cumulative effect of the change in accounting for derivative financial
instruments upon adoption of SFAS 133, as amended, which reduced comprehensive
income by approximately $1 million. In addition, in conjunction with the
Company's debt refinancing, the interest rate swap agreements were terminated
and the losses reflected in stockholders' equity as a component of comprehensive
income were reclassified to earnings and reflected as a special charge of $6.0
million in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December
31, 2001 (see Note 7).

14.  STOCK OWNERSHIP AND COMPENSATION PLANS

     Employee and Non-employee Directors Stock Ownership Programs

     In 1999, the Company established the 1999 Employee Equity Participation
Program (the "1999 EEPP") to replace the Company's prior plan established in
1996 (the "1996 EEPP"). The 1999 EEPP provides for three types of awards: (a)
stock options, (b) stock appreciation rights and (c) incentive stock awards. The
1999 EEPP provides for the grant to eligible employees of either non-qualified
or incentive stock options, or both, to purchase shares of Quest Diagnostics'
common stock at no less than the fair market value on the date of grant. The
stock options are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates prior to the
end of the prescribed vesting period, as determined by the Board of Directors.
The stock options expire on the date designated by the Board of Directors but in
no event more than eleven years from date of grant. Grants of stock appreciation
rights allow eligible employees to receive a payment based on the appreciation
of Quest Diagnostics' common stock in cash, shares of Quest Diagnostics' common
stock or a combination thereof. The stock appreciation rights are granted at an
exercise price at no less than the fair market value of Quest Diagnostics'
common stock on the date of grant. Stock appreciation rights expire on the date
designated by the Board of Directors but in no event more than eleven years from
date of grant. No stock appreciation rights have been granted under the 1999
EEPP. Under the incentive stock provisions of the plan, the 1999 EEPP allows
eligible employees to receive awards of shares, or the right to receive shares,
of Quest Diagnostics' common stock, the equivalent value in cash or a
combination thereof. These shares are earned on achievement of financial
performance goals and are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates prior
to the end of the prescribed vesting period, which ranges primarily from three
to four years. The market value of the shares awarded is recorded as unearned
compensation. The amount of unearned compensation is subject to adjustment based
upon changes in earnings estimates during the initial year of grant and is
amortized to compensation expense over the prescribed vesting period. Key
executive, managerial and technical employees are eligible to participate in the
1999 EEPP. The provisions of the 1996 EEPP were similar to those outlined above
for the 1999 EEPP.

     The 1999 EEPP increased the maximum number of shares of Quest Diagnostics'
common stock that may be optioned or granted to 18 million shares. In addition,
any remaining shares under the 1996 EEPP are available for issuance under the
1999 EEPP.


                                      F-24







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     In 1998, the Company established the Quest Diagnostics Incorporated Stock
Option Plan for Non-employee Directors (the "Director Option Plan"). The
Director Option Plan provides for the grant to non-employee directors of
non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of Quest Diagnostics' common
stock at no less than fair market value on the date of grant. The maximum number
of shares that may be issued under the Director Option Plan is 1 million shares.
The stock options expire ten years from date of grant and generally vest over
three years. During 2002, 2001 and 2000, grants under the Director Option Plan
totaled 94, 81 and 149 thousand shares, respectively.

     Transactions under the stock option plans were as follows (options in
thousands):

                                                     2002      2001      2000
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Options outstanding, beginning of year ..........     8,695     9,246    11,482
Options granted .................................     2,052     2,413     1,496
Options exercised ...............................    (1,543)   (2,576)   (3,324)
Options terminated ..............................      (282)     (388)     (408)
                                                    -------   -------   -------
Options outstanding, end of year ................     8,922     8,695     9,246
                                                    =======   =======   =======

Exercisable .....................................     3,943     3,168     3,618

Weighted average exercise price:
   Options granted ..............................   $ 74.92   $ 55.08   $ 31.61
   Options exercised ............................     18.70     11.37      8.44
   Options terminated ...........................     26.05     25.31     14.10
   Options outstanding, end of year .............     38.83     26.33     14.59
   Exercisable, end of year .....................     22.09     13.97      9.36

Weighted average fair value of options
  at grant date                                     $ 33.74   $ 25.79   $ 14.97

     The following relates to options outstanding at December 31, 2002:




                                      F-25







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     The following summarizes the activity relative to incentive stock awards
granted in 2002, 2001 and 2000 (shares in thousands):

                                                        2002     2001     2000
                                                       ------   ------   ------
Incentive shares, beginning of year ................    1,320    1,788    1,136
Incentive shares granted ...........................       --       --      920
Incentive shares vested ............................     (570)    (439)    (224)
Incentive shares forfeited and canceled ............      (15)     (29)     (44)
                                                       ------   ------   ------
Incentive shares, end of year ......................      735    1,320    1,788
                                                       ======   ======   ======

Weighted average fair value of incentive
  shares at grant date..............................   $   --   $   --   $23.54

     The balance of the incentive stock awards at December 31, 2002 are subject
to forfeiture if employment terminates prior to the end of the prescribed
vesting period.

     Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     Under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"), substantially
all employees can elect to have up to 10% of their annual wages withheld to
purchase Quest Diagnostics' common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 85%
of the lower of its beginning-of-quarter or end-of-quarter market price. Under
the ESPP, the maximum number of shares of Quest Diagnostics' common stock which
may be purchased by eligible employees is 4 million. Approximately 236, 203 and
463 thousand shares of common stock were purchased by eligible employees in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     Employee Stock Ownership Plan

     Prior to 1999, the Company maintained its Employee Stock Ownership Plan
("ESOP") to account for certain shares of Quest Diagnostics' common stock which
had been issued for the account of all active regular employees of the Company
as of December 31, 1996. Effective with the closing of the SBCL acquisition, the
Company modified certain provisions of the ESOP to provide an additional benefit
to employees through ownership of the Company's common stock. During the year
ended December 31, 2002, the ESOP was merged into the Company's defined
contribution plan. Prior to the merger of the ESOP into the Company's defined
contribution plan, substantially all of the Company's employees were eligible to
participate in the ESOP. The Company's contributions to the ESOP trust were
based on 2% of eligible employee compensation for those employees who were
actively employed or on a leave of absence on the last day of the Plan year.
Company contributions to the trust were made in the form of shares of Quest
Diagnostics' common stock. The Company's contributions to this plan aggregated
$10.4 million, $19.7 million and $21 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

15.  EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN

     The Company maintains a defined contribution plan covering substantially
all of its employees. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the ESOP, to
which the Company made annual contributions equal to 2% of eligible
compensation, was merged into the Company's defined contribution plan and the
Company increased its maximum matching contribution for its defined contribution
plan from 4% to 6% of an employee's eligible wages. The Company's expense for
contributions to its defined contribution plan aggregated $42 million, $30
million and $29 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

16.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     As a result of the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in
December 2000, GlaxoSmithKline plc ("GSK") currently beneficially owns
approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock.

     As part of the SBCL acquisition agreements, SmithKline Beecham and Quest
Diagnostics entered into the following agreements: data access agreements under
which Quest Diagnostics granted SmithKline Beecham and certain affiliated
companies certain non-exclusive rights and access to use Quest Diagnostics'
proprietary clinical laboratory information database, which were terminated as
of December 31, 2002; and an agreement under which SmithKline Beecham agreed to
provide, through December 31, 2000, various administrative services that it had
previously provided to SBCL prior to its acquisition by Quest Diagnostics (the
"Transitional Services Agreement").


                                      F-26







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

     In addition to the contracts outlined above, GSK has a long-term
contractual relationship with Quest Diagnostics under which Quest Diagnostics is
the primary provider of testing to support GSK's and SmithKline Beecham's
clinical trials testing requirements worldwide (the "Clinical Trials
Agreements");

     Significant transactions with GSK and SmithKline Beecham during 2002, 2001
and 2000 included:



     In addition, under the SBCL acquisition agreements, SmithKline Beecham has
agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after tax basis, against certain
matters primarily related to taxes and billing and professional liability claims
(see Note 17).

     At December 31, 2002 and 2001, accounts payable and accrued expenses
included $26 million and $29 million, respectively, due to SmithKline Beecham,
primarily related to tax benefits associated with indemnifiable matters. During
2001, substantially all of the billing-related claims indemnified by SmithKline
Beecham were settled (see Note 17). At December 31, 2002 and 2001, other assets
included $1.8 million and $10.1 million, respectively, due from SmithKline
Beecham, primarily related to management's best estimate of the amounts required
to satisfy certain professional liability claims indemnified by SmithKline
Beecham.

     During 2001, the Company received $8.7 million from Corning related to
certain indemnified billing-related claims settled in 2001 and 2000.

17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, primarily
real estate, in effect at December 31, 2002 are as follows:

Year ending December 31,
2003...........................................   $100,992
2004...........................................     79,760
2005...........................................     62,424
2006...........................................     45,770
2007...........................................     38,208
2008 and thereafter............................    151,763
                                                  --------
Minimum lease payments.........................    478,917
Noncancelable sub-lease income.................       (814)
                                                  --------
Net minimum lease payments.....................   $478,103
                                                  ========

     Operating lease rental expense for 2002, 2001 and 2000 aggregated $97
million, $83 million and $77 million, respectively.

     The Company has certain noncancelable commitments to purchase products or
services from various suppliers, mainly for telecommunications and standing
orders to purchase reagents and other laboratory supplies. At December 31, 2002
the approximate total future purchase commitments are $66 million, of which $39
million are expected to be incurred in 2003.

     In support of its risk management program, the Company has standby letters
of credit issued under its unsecured revolving credit facility to ensure its
performance or payment to third parties, which amounted to $33 million at
December 31, 2002. The letters of


                                      F-27







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

credit, which are renewed annually, primarily represent collateral for current
and future automobile liability and workers' compensation loss payments.

     The Company has entered into several settlement agreements with various
governmental and private payers during recent years relating to industry-wide
billing and marketing practices that had been substantially discontinued by
early 1993. In addition, the Company is aware of several pending lawsuits filed
under the qui tam provisions of the civil False Claims Act and has received
notices of private claims relating to billing issues similar to those that were
the subject of prior settlements with various governmental payers. Some of the
proceedings against the Company involve claims that are substantial in amount.
Some of the cases involved the operations of SBCL prior to the closing of the
SBCL acquisition. During both the second and third quarters of 2001, settlements
were reached in a number of the complaints against SBCL for $30 million and $31
million, respectively. The settlements were paid directly by SmithKline Beecham
under the terms of the indemnity described below.

     SmithKline Beecham has agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an
after-tax basis, against monetary payments for governmental claims or
investigations relating to the billing practices of SBCL that had been settled
before or were pending as of the closing date of the SBCL acquisition.
SmithKline Beecham has also agreed to indemnify the Company, on an after-tax
basis, against all monetary payments relating to professional liability claims
of SBCL for services provided prior to the closing of the SBCL acquisition.
Amounts due from SmithKline Beecham at December 31, 2002, related principally to
indemnified professional liability claims discussed above, totaled approximately
$4 million. The estimated reserves and related amounts due from SmithKline
Beecham are subject to change as additional information regarding the
outstanding claims is gathered and evaluated.

     At December 31, 2002 recorded reserves, relating primarily to billing
claims approximated $9 million. Although management believes that established
reserves for both indemnified and non-indemnified claims are sufficient, it is
possible that additional information (such as the indication by the government
of criminal activity, additional tests being questioned or other changes in the
government's or private claimants' theories of wrongdoing) may become available
which may cause the final resolution of these matters to exceed established
reserves by an amount which could be material to the Company's results of
operations and cash flows in the period in which such claims are settled. The
Company does not believe that these issues will have a material adverse effect
on its overall financial condition.

     In addition to the billing-related settlement reserves discussed above, the
Company is involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course
of business. Some of the proceedings against the Company involve claims that are
substantial in amount. Some of these claims involved contracts of SBCL that were
terminated following the Company's acquisition of SBCL. During the year ended
December 31, 2002, the Company paid approximately $18 million to settle claims
related to contracts of SBCL that were terminated following the Company's
acquisition of SBCL. The settlements had been fully reserved for. Although
management cannot predict the outcome of such proceedings or any claims made
against the Company, management does not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of
the various proceedings or claims will have a material adverse effect on our
financial position but may be material to the Company's results of operations
and cash flows in the period in which such claims are resolved.

     As a general matter, providers of clinical laboratory testing services may
be subject to lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These
suits could involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability
litigation could also have an adverse impact on the Company's client base and
reputation. The Company maintains various liability insurance programs for
claims that could result from providing or failing to provide clinical
laboratory testing services, including inaccurate testing results and other
exposures. The Company's insurance coverage limits its maximum exposure on
individual claims; however, the Company is essentially self-insured for a
significant portion of these claims. The basis for claims reserves incorporates
actuarially determined losses based upon the Company's historical and projected
loss experience. Management believes that present insurance coverage and
reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures. Although
management cannot predict the outcome of any claims made against the Company,
management does not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings
or claims will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position but may be material to the Company's results of operations and cash
flows in the period in which such claims are resolved.

18. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     Acquisition of Unilab Corporation

     On February 26, 2003, the Company accepted for payment more than 99% of
the outstanding capital stock of Unilab Corporation ("Unilab"), the leading
independent clinical laboratory in California. On February 28, 2003, the Company
acquired the remaining


                                      F-28







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

shares of Unilab through a merger. In connection with the acquisition, the
Company issued approximately 7.4 million shares of Quest Diagnostics common
stock (including 0.3 million shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock reserved
for outstanding stock options of Unilab which were converted upon the completion
of the acquisition into options to acquire shares of Quest Diagnostics common
stock), paid $297 million in cash and plans to repay substantially all of
Unilab's outstanding indebtedness.

     As part of the acquisition, Quest Diagnostics acquired all of Unilab's
operations, including its primary testing facilities in Los Angeles, San Jose
and Sacramento, California, and approximately 365 patient service centers and 35
rapid response laboratories.

     The Company financed the cash portion of the purchase price and related
transaction costs and expects to finance the repayment of substantially all of
Unilab's existing debt with the proceeds from a new $450 million amortizing term
loan ("term loan") and cash on-hand. The term loan carries interest at LIBOR
plus 1.3125% and requires principal repayments of the initial amount borrowed
equal to 16.25%, 20%, 20%, 21.25% and 22.5% in years one through five,
respectively.

     In connection with the acquisition of Unilab, as part of a settlement
agreement with the United States Federal Trade Commission, the Company entered
into an agreement to sell to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc.,
("LabCorp"), certain assets in northern California, including the assignment of
agreements with four independent physician associations ("IPA") and leases for
46 patient service centers (five of which also serve as rapid response
laboratories) for $4.5 million. Approximately $27 million in annual net revenues
are generated by capitated fees under the IPA contracts and associated fee for
service testing for physicians whose patients use these patient service centers,
as well as from specimens received directly from the IPA physicians.

     In conjunction with the acquisition of Unilab, on February 6, 2003, the
Company commenced a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding $100.8 million
principal amount of Unilab 12 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2009. The
Company expects to finance the cash tender offer and consent solicitation,
including tender premium and related solicitation and banking fees estimated at
approximately $25 million, with a combination of cash on-hand and borrowings
under the $450 million amortizing term loan.

     While the acquisition of Unilab will be accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting, a preliminary purchase price allocation is not practical
at this time.

19. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     As described in Note 12, the Senior Notes and the Debentures are guaranteed
by each of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries that operate clinical
laboratories in the United States (the "Subsidiary Guarantors"). With the
exception of Quest Diagnostics Receivables Incorporated (see paragraph below),
the non-guarantor subsidiaries are primarily foreign and less than wholly owned
subsidiaries.

     In conjunction with the Company's secured receivables credit facility
described in Note 12, the Company formed a new wholly owned non-guarantor
subsidiary, Quest Diagnostics Receivables Incorporated ("QDRI"). The Company and
the Subsidiary Guarantors, with the exception of AML, transfer all private
domestic receivables (principally excluding receivables due from Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal programs, and receivables due from customers of its
joint ventures) to QDRI. QDRI utilizes the transferred receivables to
collateralize the Company's secured receivables credit facility. The Company and
the Subsidiary Guarantors provide collection services to QDRI. QDRI uses cash
collections principally to purchase new receivables from the Company and the
Subsidiary Guarantors.

     The following condensed consolidating financial data illustrates the
composition of the combined guarantors. Investments in subsidiaries are
accounted for by the parent using the equity method for purposes of the
supplemental consolidating presentation. Earnings (losses) of subsidiaries are
therefore reflected in the parent's investment accounts and earnings. The
principal elimination entries relate to investments in subsidiaries and
intercompany balances and transactions. On April 1, 2002, Quest Diagnostics
acquired AML (see Note 3), which has been included in the accompanying condensed
consolidating financial data, subsequent to the closing of the acquisition, as a
Subsidiary Guarantor.


                                      F-29







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
December 31, 2002



Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
December 31, 2001




                                      F-30







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
For the Year Ended December 31, 2002



Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
For the Year Ended December 31, 2001




                                      F-31







                QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
               (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
For the Year Ended December 31, 2000



Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended December 31, 2002




                                      F-32







                QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                (dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended December 31, 2001



Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended December 31, 2000




                                      F-33







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      (in thousands, except per share data)
                     Quarterly Operating Results (unaudited)





(a)  On April 1, 2002, Quest Diagnostics completed its acquisition of AML. The
     quarterly operating results include the results of operations of AML
     subsequent to the closing of the acquisition (see Note 3).

(b)  During the second quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a special charge of
     $6.0 million (see Note 7).

(c)  During the second quarter of 2001, the Company refinanced a substantial
     portion of its long-term debt. The extraordinary loss of $36 million ($22
     million, net of taxes) represented the write-off of deferred financing
     costs of $23 million, associated with the Company's debt which was
     refinanced, and $12.8 million of payments related primarily to the tender
     premium incurred in connection with the Company's cash tender offer of the
     Subordinated Notes (see Note 8).


                                      F-34







                 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  SCHEDULE II - VALUATION ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (in thousands)








                          STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES
                          ------------------------

 The trademark symbol shall be expressed as............................. 'TM'


                                      F-35




