10-K


c64010_10-k.htm

Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by
check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller
reporting company

o

Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

x

As of June 30,
2010, the aggregate market value of the approximately 146 million shares of
voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant
was approximately $7.3 billion, based on the closing price on such date of the
registrant’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange.

As of January
31, 2011, there were outstanding 171,164,282 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par
value per share.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Document

Part of
 Form 10-K into

which incorporated

Portions of
 the registrant’s Proxy Statement to be filed by April 28, 2011

Part III

Such Proxy
Statement, except for the portions thereof which have been specifically
incorporated by reference, shall not be deemed “filed” as part of this report
on Form 10-K.


i

I

tem 1. Business

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing,
information and services. We provide insights that enable patients, physicians
and others to make better healthcare decisions.

Quest
Diagnostics was incorporated in Delaware in 1990; its predecessor companies
date back to 1967. We conduct business through our headquarters in Madison, New
Jersey, and our laboratories, patient service centers, offices and other
facilities around the United States and in selected locations outside the
United States. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Quest
Diagnostics,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” mean Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries.

During
2010, we generated net revenues of $7.4 billion and processed approximately 146
million test requisitions. Additional financial information concerning Quest
Diagnostics, including our consolidated subsidiaries and business segments, for
each of the years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008 is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.

O

UR STRATEGY AND STRENGTHS

Our
mission is to be the undisputed world leader in diagnostic testing, information
and services. We are dedicated to improving the health of patients through
unsurpassed diagnostic insights and innovation and we focus on patients, growth
and people to help achieve our goals.

We
offer high value diagnostic testing services and products attractive to
patients, physicians, payers, and others and have become the provider of choice
in key areas of the diagnostic testing market. We believe that successful
execution of our strategy will drive continued growth of our business.
Additionally, we believe that, over the long term, we will be able to grow at a
rate above the U.S. clinical laboratory industry growth rate, to expand margins
and to increase international revenues to 10% of consolidated revenues. The
elements of our growth strategy are described below.



have three
 businesses that offer point-of-care testing: HemoCue, Focus Diagnostics and
 Enterix. We intend to expand our product menus, develop novel technology
 platforms and systems to meet the needs of our clients and pursue potential
 additional acquisitions to supplement our offering. Test results from our
 point-of-care products can be entered into our Care360 system, enabling the
 integration of tests performed in a near patient setting with those performed
 in our laboratories. We are well positioned to offer choice and integrated
 solutions to physicians, hospitals, clinics and retail customers for the
 testing methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.

•

Expand our geographic reach

. In addition to growth
opportunities in the United States, we see opportunities to expand our
presence in India, Ireland, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the U.K. and to bring our
experience and expertise in diagnostic testing to other international
markets, particularly to developing countries where the testing markets are
highly fragmented and less mature.

To
support our strategy, we expect to continue to selectively evaluate
acquisitions in the United States and in select international markets. We
anticipate that acquisitions will enable us to expand our capabilities, further
leverage our assets and differentiate our Company from our competition,
diversify our revenues and accelerate our growth.

B

USINESS OPERATIONS

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make better healthcare decisions. We offer U.S. patients and physicians the
broadest access to diagnostic testing services through our nationwide network
of laboratories and Company-owned patient service centers. We provide
interpretive consultation through the largest medical and scientific staff in
the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the
United States, many of whom are recognized leaders in their field. We are the
leading provider of clinical testing, including gene-based and esoteric
testing, anatomic pathology services and testing for drugs-of-abuse, and the
leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry.
We also are a leading provider of testing for clinical trials. Our diagnostics
products business manufactures and markets FDA cleared or approved diagnostic
test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We empower healthcare
organizations and clinicians with robust information technology solutions. Our
activities are described below.

Patients
are at the center of everything that we do. We are leveraging our diagnostic
testing capabilities and our assets to serve multiple customer bases. Most of
our services are provided in the United States; for each of the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we derived approximately 3% of our revenues
from foreign operations and held approximately 7% of our long-lived assets
outside the United States. The following chart shows the percentage of our 2010
net revenues generated by the activities identified.

Clinical
Testing.

We are the world’s largest commercial
clinical testing company. Clinical testing is an essential element in the
delivery of healthcare services. Physicians use clinical tests to assist in the
detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and
other medical conditions. Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical
laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services. We offer customers the
broadest access to the most extensive test menu of clinical laboratory and
anatomic pathology tests in the United States. Clinical laboratory testing
generally is performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids,
such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples. Clinical laboratory
tests which can be performed by most clinical laboratories are considered
routine. Esoteric tests are clinical laboratory tests that are not routine,
require highly skilled personnel and generally require more sophisticated
equipment. Anatomic pathology services are performed on tissues, such as
biopsies, and


other samples,
such as human cells. As tests increasingly become more complex, we believe that
providing sound medical and scientific consultation regarding our tests and
test results will help spur the integration of new tests into clinical
practice, and help physicians best utilize these tests to improve patient
outcomes and enhance patient satisfaction. To this end, our in-house experts,
including medical directors, scientific directors, genetic counselors and board
certified geneticists are available for consultation with our customers
regarding testing that we perform.

Routine
clinical testing

. We are the leading provider of routine clinical
testing, including testing for drugs-of-abuse. We perform routine testing
through our network of major laboratories and rapid response laboratories.
Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where we can quickly perform
an abbreviated menu of routine tests for customers that require rapid
turnaround times. We also perform routine testing at hospital laboratories that
we manage. We operate laboratories 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, performing
and reporting most routine tests within 24 hours. The majority of test results
are delivered electronically.

Routine
tests measure various important bodily health parameters such as the functions
of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests
include:

Anatomic
pathology testing

. We are the leading provider of anatomic
pathology services in the United States, through our AmeriPath

TM

,
Dermpath Diagnostics

TM

and Quest Diagnostics brands. Anatomic
pathology involves the diagnosis of cancer and other diseases and medical
conditions through examination of tissue and cell samples taken from patients.
We provide inpatient anatomic pathology and medical director services at
hospitals throughout the country, and through our major laboratories.

We
provide a full range of services to all anatomic pathology subspecialties. We
have approximately 725 medical doctors, including luminaries in their field,
with a passion for providing the highest quality service to patients. Among
them are approximately 700 pathologists. We provide integrated, comprehensive
reports that include both anatomic pathology and clinical pathology tests,
enabling our pathologists to offer patients and physicians a complete analysis.
Our approach fosters personalized patient care.

We
have a strong history of leadership and innovation in cancer diagnostics. We
introduced the Leumeta

®

family of tests for leukemia and lymphoma.
These proprietary plasma-based molecular tests may some day eliminate the need
for painful bone marrow biopsies. As discussed below under the heading
“Scientific Innovation,” recently we introduced our Lung Cancer Mutation Panel,
designed to aid treatment selection for lung cancer patients. This panel
detects mutations in the EFGR, ALK and KRAS genes. This panel, together with
our numerous individual tests for lung cancer mutations, provides the most
comprehensive lung cancer test offerings available from a commercial
laboratory.

Gene-Based
and Esoteric Testing

. We are the leading provider in the United
States of gene-based and esoteric testing. Gene-based and esoteric tests
increasingly are ordered by physicians to assist them in the diagnostic
process, to establish a prognosis and to choose or monitor a therapeutic
regimen. Esoteric tests include procedures in the areas of molecular
diagnostics, protein chemistry, cellular immunology and advanced microbiology.
Commonly ordered esoteric tests include viral and bacterial detection tests,
drug therapy monitoring tests, autoimmune panels and complex cancer
evaluations. Esoteric tests typically require professional “hands-on” attention
from highly-skilled technical personnel, generally require more sophisticated
technology, equipment or materials and may be performed less frequently than
routine tests. Consequently, esoteric tests are generally reimbursed at higher
levels than routine tests. It is not practical, from a cost-effectiveness or
infrastructure perspective, for most hospitals, commercial laboratories or
physician office laboratories to develop and perform a broad menu of esoteric
tests, or to perform low-volume esoteric testing in-house. Such tests generally
are outsourced to an esoteric clinical testing laboratory, which specializes in
performing these complex tests. We conduct complex and specialized testing,
including molecular diagnostics, in our world renowned Quest Diagnostics
Nichols Institute laboratory facilities, and in a number of other locations,
including Focus


Diagnostics.

Our
esoteric laboratories provide reference testing services to physicians, large
academic medical centers, hospitals and other commercial laboratories. Our
esoteric testing laboratories perform hundreds of complex tests that are not
routinely performed by our regional laboratories, including but not limited to
the following fields:

We
also offer gene-based tests for the predisposition, diagnosis, treatment and
monitoring of cancers. We believe that offering a full range of gene-based and
other esoteric tests strengthens our market offering and market position and
enhances our reputation as the nation’s leading test provider.

Scientific
Innovation

. We are a leading innovator in the clinical testing industry,
with capabilities ranging from early discovery to validation of clinical tests.
We develop tests at our laboratories, such as Quest Diagnostics Nichols
Institute; we also develop innovative techniques in anatomic pathology. We
collaborate with leading academic centers and maintain relationships with
advisors and consultants that are leaders in key fields, such as cardiology,
oncology and infectious disease. In connection with our research and
development efforts, our medical and scientific experts publish in
peer-reviewed journals research that demonstrates the clinical value and
importance of diagnostic testing. In 2010, they published more than 30 articles
that provided fundamental insights into the biology of diseases or introduced
novel diagnostic testing approaches benefitting patients. They also help to
shape the latest thinking as the authors of textbooks, or chapters therein,
used by academic institutions to train healthcare providers. We successfully
transfer technical innovations to the market through our relationships with
technology developers, including the academic community and pharmaceutical and
biotechnology firms, our in-house expertise and our collaborations with
emerging medical technology companies that develop and commercialize novel
diagnostics, pharmaceutical and device technologies. We search for new
opportunities and continue to build a robust pipeline of new tests in
predisposition, screening, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choice, which
assists physicians in early detection of diseases and may reduce healthcare
costs. Through our strengths in assay development and the commercialization of
test services, we believe that we are the partner of choice for developers of
new technologies and tests to introduce their products to the marketplace.

We
focus our resources on key disease states and technologies that help doctors
care for their patients through better predisposition, screening, monitoring,
diagnosis, prognosis and treatment choices. We also look for tests that are
less invasive than currently available options, to increase the choices that
physicians and patients have for the collection of diagnostic samples. With
these priorities in mind, we recently introduced a number of new or enhanced
tests, including those discussed below.


Healthcare
Information Technology.

We empower healthcare
organizations and clinicians with information technology solutions that can
help improve patient care and medical practice, through our Care360

TM

suite of products, Centergy Data Exchange and the ChartMaxx

®

electronic
document management system for hospitals. We provide interoperable technologies
that help healthcare organizations and physicians enter, share and access clinical
information without costly IT implementation or significant workflow disruption.
These solutions offer access to a large national healthcare provider network,
including approximately 160,000 networked physicians using Quest Diagnostics’ Care360
connectivity products. We believe that these products enhance the value we provide
to our customers and result in increased customer loyalty by providing more convenient
ordering and reporting of clinical tests, greater convenience in


electronically
prescribing medication and providing better access to clinical information.

The
Care360 products, including our Care360 Labs and Meds, enable physicians
electronically to order diagnostic tests and review test results from Quest
Diagnostics and electronically to prescribe medication. Since December 2009,
the number of medications written through Care360 ePrescribing has grown to an
annualized rate of approximately 22 million. Our Care360 EHR product allows
physicians to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter,
automates and streamlines the clinician’s workflow, and allows for rapid
deployment and implementation with minimal workflow disruption. The solution
allows doctors to electronically create, manage and distribute patient
encounter notes, including vital signs and progress notes. It captures lab and
radiology results, provides clinical decision support tools and allows doctors
to send secure messages and clinical information to other practitioners and
secure, Web-based laboratory results to their patients’ personal health
records. Physicians also take advantage of our new Care360 Mobile application
that lets them review results and order medications using their Apple

®

iPhone

®

or iPad

®

.

In
December 2010, the Care360 EHR solution received ONC-ATCB 2011/12 certification
as a Complete EHR from the Certification Commission for Health Information
Technology. The 2011/2012 criteria support the Stage 1 Meaningful Use measures
required to qualify eligible providers and hospitals for funding under the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which included laws designed to
expedite the implementation of electronic health records and build a national
electronic health infrastructure in the United States. We believe that we are
well positioned to enable physicians to participate in this government stimulus
program.

In
2010, for the seventh time in the past nine years, ChartMaxx was awarded the #1
in KLAS award for the document management and imaging category. It is being
used by over 400,000 clinical and administrative users in hospitals and other
clinical locations. Our Centergy

®

Data Exchange is the delivery
mechanism for clinical transactions, including bi-directional transmission of
orders and results involving the acute care and ambulatory settings.

We
are a leader in providing patients with advanced tools to manage their health.
We collaborate with Keas, Microsoft and Google in connection with their
personal health records offerings. Using our Care360 connectivity products,
physicians can securely provide diagnostic and other data to a patient’s
account. In 2010, we introduced Gazelle

TM

, a secure mobile health
platform that allows users to receive their Quest Diagnostics laboratory
results and manage their personal health information directly from their
smartphone. With Gazelle, users can see, store and share their vital health
information with ease and security on a mobile basis. Gazelle also features a
mobile appointment scheduling application and allows patients to find a Quest
Diagnostics location.

We
believe that our healthcare information technology capabilities, and our
collaboration with others regarding healthcare information technology initiatives,
differentiate us from the competition.

Clinical
Trials Testing.

We believe that we are the second
largest provider of central laboratory testing performed in connection with
clinical research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain medical devices.
Clinical research trials are required by the FDA and other international
regulatory authorities to assess the safety and efficacy of new drugs and
vaccines. We see opportunities to develop pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic
tests to help speed drug approval processes for our clinical trials customers
and, capitalizing on the trend to personalized medicine, to better focus
patient therapy based on a patient’s genetic markers. We have biomarker
capabilities that advance our efforts to develop these tests.

We
have clinical trials testing centers in the United States and the United
Kingdom, and we provide clinical trials testing in Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, China and Singapore through affiliated laboratories. While we serve
most of the major pharmaceutical companies, approximately 32% of our net
revenues from clinical trials testing in 2010 represented testing for
GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”). We are the primary provider of central laboratory
testing to support GSK’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.

Life
Insurer Services.

We are the largest provider of risk
assessment services to the life insurance industry in North America. We also
provide risk assessment services for insurance companies doing business in many
countries outside the United States.

Our
risk assessment services comprise underwriting support services to the life
insurance industry, including clinical testing, teleunderwriting, specimen
collection and paramedical examinations, medical record retrieval, case
management, motor vehicle reports, telephone inspections, prescription
histories and credit checks. The clinical tests that we perform and data we
gather are designed to assist insurance companies to objectively evaluate the
mortality risks of policy applicants. The majority of the testing is performed
on specimens of life insurance applicants, but also includes specimens of
applicants for other types of insurance. Factors such as the number of
applications for underwritten life insurance policies can affect the
utilization of clinical testing and other services we provide to our


insurance
customers. Most of our specimen collections and paramedical examinations are
performed by our network of approximately 5,275 contracted paramedical examiners
at the applicant’s home or workplace. We also offer paramedical examinations
through approximately 500 of our patient service centers, and operate
approximately 75 locations other than patient service centers in the United
States and Canada where we provide paramedical examinations, bringing to
approximately 575 the total number of sites where we can provide these
examinations. We also contract with third parties at over an additional 120
locations across the United States and Canada to coordinate providing these
exams.

We
seek to grow our insurance revenues by increasing our market share and by
offering new and innovative clinical tests, data collection and analytics and
other services. Our life insurance customers have been consolidating, which has
resulted in increased individual customer purchasing power. We expect that this
trend will continue. We charge our life insurance customers on a
fee-for-service basis, typically under multi-year agreements.

Employer
Services.

We believe that we are the leading provider
of clinical testing to employers for the detection of employee use of
drugs-of-abuse. Our Quest Diagnostics Drug Testing Index

TM

, which is
an annual report of our aggregate drug testing results, is used by employers,
the federal government and the media to help identify and quantify drug abuse
among the nation’s workforce.

As
healthcare costs have increased, so has the value of preventative care.
Employers grappling with increased healthcare costs use wellness testing as a
key tool to reduce their healthcare costs and the healthcare risks of their
employees. We provide wellness testing and analytic services to employers to
enable them and their employees to take an active role in improving their
health and empower employers with aggregated health information. Our Blueprint
for Wellness

®

program offers employers actionable data to power
their health improvement and cost containment programs. We are leveraging our
patient service centers and paramedical network to deliver wellness screening
nationwide. We also offer Blueprint for Wellness

®

directly to
individuals.

Diagnostic
Products, Including Point-of-care, or Near Patient, Testing.

Technology advances are enabling testing to move closer to the patient and are
becoming increasingly available, accurate and cost effective. Over time, some
testing that is now done in clinical laboratories will cease to be performed in
clinical laboratories and will be performed closer to the patient. We believe
that our point-of-care testing strategy will strengthen our relationship with
our customers by enabling us to offer more solutions that improve the
effectiveness of our customers and the care of their patients by enabling
faster diagnosis and treatment. We are well positioned to offer options and
integrated solutions to physicians, hospitals and clinics for the testing
methods that are most appropriate for each patient and practice.

We
develop and manufacture products that enable healthcare professionals to make healthcare
diagnoses, including products for point-of-care, or near patient, testing for
the professional market. We have several companies, including Focus
Diagnostics, Enterix, and HemoCue, that enhance our offerings and better enable
us to serve these markets. We will consider additional acquisitions or licenses
of selective products to complement the products and services we provide. The
results of several of our point-of-care tests can be entered into our Care360

TM

system and hospital laboratory information systems so that they are
available in electronic medical records. We intend to offer additional data
links in the future. This will differentiate our point-of-care test products
from other products that are not integrated into an electronic repository.

Focus
Diagnostics is a leading provider of infectious disease testing that has
established a reputation for being first to introduce new tests to the market,
including diagnostic tests for Lyme disease, West Nile Virus, SARS and, most
recently, H1N1. Focus Diagnostics develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic
products, such as HerpeSelect

®

ELISA tests that detect patient
antibodies to specific types of herpes simplex virus, which can be performed on
a variety of instrument platforms. Focus Diagnostics sells its diagnostic
products to large academic medical centers, hospitals and commercial
laboratories globally. Focus has an agreement with 3M Corporation for global
human diagnostic rights to a compact integrated bench-top instrument for use with
real time polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) assays. These tests are sold under
the Simplexa

TM

brand name. In 2010, Focus received FDA 510(k)
clearance for the bench-top instrument, the Simplexa

TM

H1N1
Influenza test and the Simplexa

TM

Flu A/B and RSV test for the
instrument. Each test also has received the CE mark for sale in Europe. We
intend to develop and pursue FDA clearance and CE marking for additional
Simplexa

TM

tests.

HemoCue
manufactures and distributes point-of-care testing products. HemoCue is the
leading global provider in point-of-care testing for hemoglobin, with a growing
market share for glucose, microalbumin and white blood cell testing. In 2010,
HemoCue added a room temperature version of its high sensitivity glucose test
    in the EU; HemoCue is seeking FDA 510(k) clearance for this test in the U.S.
HemoCue also began to market and deliver its White Blood Cell Analyzer, a
whole-blood test performed on finger-stick samples, in both single (worldwide)
and differential (in Europe) counts. We are seeking 510(k) clearance and waived
status under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (“CLIA”)
for this product which, if granted, would permit physicians to use these products
in a much larger segment of


physician
offices. The HemoCue handheld systems are used in physician’s offices, blood
banks, hospitals, diabetes clinics and public health clinics. Approximately
one-half of HemoCue products are sold outside the United States. We believe
that HemoCue has a strong product development pipeline, based on its pioneering
use of its patented microfluidic systems.

Enterix,
an Australia-based company, manufactures the InSure

®

fecal immunochemical test (FIT

TM

)
for screening for colorectal cancer.

International.

We have laboratory facilities in Gurgaon, India;
Heston, England; Mexico City, Mexico; and San Juan, Puerto Rico. These
laboratories support clinical testing in their local markets, and also may
support our clinical trials business. We have an office in Ireland that
supports our activities in that country, and also have sales representatives
dedicated to offering our point-of-care test products in countries outside the
United States. We see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in
diagnostic testing and point-of-care products to international markets,
particularly developing countries where the testing markets are highly
fragmented and less mature, including by leveraging existing facilities to
serve new markets.

T

HE UNITED STATES CLINICAL TESTING MARKET

Most
clinical tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
hospital-affiliated laboratories; commercial clinical laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. We believe that hospital-affiliated laboratories
account for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical laboratories
approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the balance.

Key
Trends.

There are a number of key trends that we
expect to have a significant impact on the clinical testing business in the
United States and on our business. These trends present both opportunities and
risks. However, because clinical testing is an essential healthcare service and
because of the key trends discussed below, we believe that the industry will continue
to grow over the long term and that we are well positioned to benefit from the
long-term growth expected in the industry.

Demographics

.
The growing and aging population is increasing the demand for clinical testing.

Prevention
and wellness

. We believe that the value of detection, prevention,
wellness and personalized care is recognized more now than ever before.
Consumers, employers, health plans and government agencies increasingly are
focusing on helping the healthy stay healthy, detecting symptoms among those at
risk and providing preventative care that helps avoid disease. Physicians
increasingly are relying on diagnostic testing to help identify risk for a
disease, to detect the symptoms of disease earlier, to aid in the choice of
therapeutic regimen, to monitor patient compliance and to evaluate treatment
results. Physicians, consumers and payers increasingly recognize the value of
diagnostic testing as a means to improve health and reduce the overall cost of
healthcare through early detection, prevention and treatment. Federal
healthcare reform legislation adopted in 2010 contained provisions eliminating
patient cost-sharing for preventative services, and additional provisions that
we believe will increase the number of patients that have health insurance and
thus better access to diagnostic testing.

Science and
technology advances

. Medical advances allow for more accurate and
earlier diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Continuing research and
development in the area of genomics is expected to yield new, more
sophisticated and specialized diagnostic tests. These advances also are
spurring interest in and demand for personalized or tailored medicine, which
relies on diagnostic and prognostic testing. Pharmacogenomic testing
increasingly is used as a parameter to help speed drug approval processes and
to better focus therapy based on patient and tumor-specific genetic markers.
Demand also is growing toward comprehensive care management solutions that
serve patients, payers and practitioners by improving access to patient data,
increasing patient participation in care management, reducing medical errors
and improving clinical outcomes. There is an increasing focus on
interconnectivity, and electronic medical records and patient health records
continue to grow.

Customers
and payers

. Our customers and payers, including physicians,
health insurance plans, employers, pharmaceutical companies and others, have
been consolidating. We expect that this trend will continue. Consolidation is
increasing bargaining power, enhancing purchasing sophistication and
encouraging internalization of testing. In addition, federal healthcare reform
legislation adopted in 2010 encourages the formation of “accountable care
organizations” and requires implementation of health insurance exchanges, which
may result in changes in the way that some healthcare services are purchased
and delivered in the United States.

Competition

.
The clinical testing industry remains fragmented, is highly
competitive and is subject to new competition. Competition is growing from
non-traditional competitors. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician
practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may
strengthen their competitive position. New market entrants with extensive
resources may make acquisitions or expand into our traditional areas of
operations. We also are expanding into new diagnostic testing areas that are
highly competitive.


Legislative,
regulatory and policy environment

. Government oversight of and
attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and
increasing. The 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included laws
designed to expedite the implementation of electronic health records and build
a national electronic health infrastructure in the United States. During 2010,
the FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory authority
over laboratory developed tests, and that it plans to issue guidance to the
industry regarding its regulatory approach. Federal healthcare reform
legislation adopted in 2010 has created significant uncertainty as healthcare
markets react to potential and impending changes.

Globalization

.
There is a growing demand for healthcare services in emerging market countries.
Opportunities are arising to participate in the restructuring or growth of the
healthcare systems in these countries. Additionally, our customers are
establishing positions outside the United States. Demographic changes globally
may also create opportunities.

Customers
and Payers.

We provide testing services to a broad
range of customers, with orders for clinical testing generally generated by
physicians, hospitals and employers. In most cases, the customer that orders
the testing is not responsible for the payments for services. Depending on the
billing arrangement and applicable law, the payer may be (1) a third party
responsible for providing health insurance coverage to patients, such as a health
insurance plan, self-insured employer benefit fund, or the traditional Medicare
or Medicaid program, (2) the patient or (3) the physician or other party (such
as a hospital, another laboratory or an employer) who referred the testing to
us.

Health
Plans

. Health plans, including managed care organizations and
other health insurance providers, typically reimburse us as a contracted
provider on behalf of their members for clinical testing services performed.
Reimbursement from our two largest health plans totaled approximately 13% of
our consolidated net revenues in 2010. Our largest health plan accounted for
approximately 9% of our consolidated net revenues in 2010.

Health
plans typically negotiate directly or indirectly with a number of clinical
laboratories, and represent approximately one-half of our total clinical
testing volumes and one-half of our net revenues from clinical testing. The
trend of consolidation among health plans has continued. In certain markets,
such as California, health plans may delegate to independent physician
associations (“IPAs”) the ability to negotiate for clinical testing services on
behalf of certain members.

Health
plans and IPAs often require that clinical test service providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk
associated with providing testing services through capitated payment
arrangements and discounted fee-for-service arrangements. Under capitated
payment arrangements, we provide services at a predetermined monthly
reimbursement rate for each covered member, generally regardless of the number
or cost of services provided by us. Average reimbursement rates under capitated
payment arrangements are typically lower than our overall average reimbursement
rate. Health plans continue to offer preferred provider organization (“PPO”)
plans, point-of-service (“POS”) plans, consumer driven health plans (“CDHPs”)
and limited benefit coverage programs. Reimbursement under these programs is
typically negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in
higher revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. We do not
expect that the design of these plans will pose a significant barrier to
accessing clinical testing services. To the extent that plans and programs
require greater levels of patient cost-sharing, this could negatively impact
patient collection experience.

Most
of our agreements with major health plans are non-exclusive arrangements.
Certain health plans, however, have limited their laboratory network to only a
single national laboratory, seeking to obtain improved pricing. Although
non-contracted providers historically generally were reimbursed at “reasonable
and customary” rates, health plans today are employing several approaches,
including “reasonable and customary” rates, to reimburse non-contracted
providers. Contracted rates generally are lower than “reasonable and customary”
rates.

We
also sometimes are a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary
network is generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will
maintain with various providers that provide discounted fees for the benefit of
its customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
attempt to strengthen our relationships with health plans and increase the
volume of testing services by offering health plans services and programs that
leverage our Company’s expertise and resources, including our superior access,
extensive test menu, medical staff and data, and in such areas as wellness and
disease management.

Physicians

.
Physicians, including both primary care physicians and specialists, requiring
testing for patients are the primary referral source of our clinical testing
volume. Physicians determine which laboratory to recommend or use based on a
variety of factors, including: service; patient access and convenience,
including participation in a health plan network; price; and depth and breadth
of test and service offering. Physicians also purchase and utilize our
point-of-care tests.


Hospitals

. Hospitals
generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform the significant majority of
clinical testing for their patients and refer less frequently needed and highly
specialized procedures to outside laboratories, which typically charge the
hospitals on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. Fee schedules for hospital
reference testing typically are negotiated on behalf of hospitals by group
purchasing organizations. We provide services to hospitals throughout the
United States, including esoteric testing, in some cases helping manage their
laboratories and serving as the medical directors of the hospital’s histology
or clinical laboratory. We believe that we are the industry’s market leader in
servicing hospitals. Hospitals generally continue to look for ways to fully
utilize their existing laboratory capacity: they perform tests their patients
need and may compete with commercial laboratories for outreach (non-hospital
patients) testing. Continuing to obtain referrals from hospitals depends on our
ability to provide high quality services that are more cost-effective than if
the hospitals were to perform the services themselves. We believe that our
combination of full-service, bi-coastal esoteric testing capabilities, medical
and scientific professionals available for consultation, innovative
connectivity products, point-of-care testing products, focus on Six Sigma
quality and dedicated sales and service professionals has positioned us to be
an attractive partner for hospitals.

Most
physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as
part of their medical practice. Many hospitals seek to leverage their
relationships with community physicians by encouraging the physicians to send
their outreach testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals
that own physician practices generally require the practices to refer tests to
the hospital’s affiliated laboratory. Hospitals can have greater leverage with
health insurers than do commercial clinical laboratories, particularly
hospitals that have a significant market share; hospitals thus are frequently
able to negotiate higher reimbursement rates with health insurance plans than
commercial clinical laboratories for comparable clinical testing services.

We
also have joint venture arrangements with leading integrated healthcare
delivery networks in several metropolitan areas. These joint venture
arrangements, which provide testing for affiliated hospitals as well as for
unaffiliated physicians and other local healthcare providers, serve as our
principal laboratory facilities in their service areas. Typically, we have
either a majority ownership interest in, or day-to-day management
responsibilities for, our hospital joint venture relationships.

Employers

.
Employers use clinical tests for drugs-of-abuse to determine an individual’s
employability and his or her “fitness for duty.” Companies with high employee
turnover, safety conscious environments or regulatory testing requirements
provide the highest volumes of testing. Factors such as the general economy and
job market can impact the utilization of drugs-of-abuse testing. We seek to
grow our employer volumes through offering new and innovative programs to help
companies with their goal of maintaining a safe and productive workplace. We
also offer employers our Blueprint for Wellness program, providing wellness
screening and analytic services to employers, to help employers and their
employees manage increasing healthcare costs and to capitalize on trends in
personalized health.

Other
Laboratories and Other Customers

. We also provide testing
services to federal, state and local governmental agencies and perform esoteric
testing services for commercial clinical laboratories that do not have a full
range of testing capabilities. These customers are charged on a fee-for-service
basis.

G

ENERAL

Competition.

While there has been significant consolidation in the clinical testing industry
in recent years, our industry remains fragmented and highly competitive. We
primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. Our largest commercial clinical laboratory
competitor is Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Inc. In addition, we
compete with many smaller regional and local commercial clinical laboratories,
specialized esoteric laboratories and laboratories owned by physicians and
hospitals. In anatomic pathology, additional competitors include anatomic
pathology practices, including those in academic institutions. In addition,
there has been a trend among specialty physician practices to establish their
    own histology laboratory capabilities and/or bring pathologists into their
     practices, thereby reducing referrals from these practices.

We
believe that healthcare providers traditionally consider a number of factors
when selecting a testing provider, including:


We
believe that we are an effective competitor in each of these areas. We also
believe that offering the most comprehensive test menu in the industry,
innovative test and information technology offerings, a superior patient
experience, Six Sigma quality and unparalleled access and distribution,
provides us with a competitive advantage.

We
believe that large commercial clinical laboratories may be able to increase
their share of the overall clinical testing market due to their large service
networks and lower cost structures. These advantages should enable larger
clinical laboratories to more effectively serve customers, including members of
large healthcare plans. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the
clinical testing industry will continue. However, a significant portion of
clinical testing is likely to continue to be performed by hospitals, which
generally have affiliations with community physicians that refer testing to us.
As a result of these affiliations, we compete against hospital-affiliated
laboratories primarily on the basis of service capability and quality as well
as other non-pricing factors. In addition, recent market activity may increase
the competitive environment. For example, health plan actions to exclude large
national clinical laboratories from contracts may enhance the relative
competitive position of regional laboratories, and increased hospital
acquisitions of physician practices enhance the ties of the physicians to
hospital-affiliated laboratories.

The
diagnostic testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more
cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical
laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians
in their offices; (2) complex tests that can be performed by hospitals in their
own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without
requiring the services of clinical laboratories. Development of such technology
and its use by our customers and patients would reduce the demand for our
laboratory testing services and negatively impact our revenues. With our
point-of-care test strategy, we are positioning ourselves to service this
growing market for physicians and hospitals. We also believe that our overall
point-of-care test strategy will strengthen our relationship with our customers
by enabling us to offer more solutions that improve their effectiveness and the
care of their patients by enabling faster diagnosis and treatment.

The
diagnostic product, life insurance services, clinical trials and healthcare
information technology markets are highly competitive. We have many
competitors, some of which have much more extensive experience in these markets
and some of which have greater resources. We compete in the diagnostic products
market by attempting to find and exploit unique differentiated products,
including products that take advantage of our healthcare information technology
solutions. We compete in the life insurance services business by seeking to
provide a superior applicant experience, faster services completion and a wider
array of highest quality, integrated services than our competitors. We compete
in the clinical trials business by leveraging our strengths as the world’s
leading diagnostic testing company, including the depth and breadth of our
testing menu, our superior scientific expertise, our ability to support complex
global clinical trials and our lab management and information technology
solutions. We compete in the healthcare information technology market by
offering solutions that foster better patient care and improve performance for
healthcare institutions, patients and physician practices, particularly smaller
and medium sized physician practices.

Sales
and Marketing.

Our sales force is organized to focus
on customer groups and service types. The majority of representatives focus on
marketing clinical laboratory testing, anatomic pathology and related services
to physicians, including physician specialists. Supporting our physician sales
teams are genomics and esoteric testing specialists, who are specially trained
and focused on educating our clients on new and more complex tests. In the
insurance market, we have a sales force that focuses on regional and national
insurance organizations, as well as a sales team that sells risk assessment
services to life insurance companies. We also have a hospital sales
organization that focuses on meeting the unique clinical testing needs of
hospitals. A smaller portion of our sales force focuses on selling
drugs-of-abuse and wellness testing to employers. We also have a sales force
that focuses on selling risk assessment testing services to local insurance
agents and brokers. In addition, we have a sales organization that focuses on
selling diagnostic products and instruments to hospitals, commercial clinical
laboratories, physician office laboratories, blood banks and clinics, and a
sales force that sells our point-of-care tests to customers globally. Given the
highly specialized requirements of drug developers, we also have a dedicated
sales force that sells our clinical trials services. In addition, we have an
active customer management process to evaluate the growth potential and
profitability of all accounts.

Information
Technology.

We use information systems extensively in
virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical laboratory testing,
test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical
data. We believe that our healthcare information technology systems help
differentiate us favorably. We endeavor to establish systems that create value
and efficiencies for our Company, patients and customers. The successful
delivery of our


services
depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our
information technology systems.

Some
of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and we continue to use
non-standardized billing, laboratory or other core information systems. We have
standardized some of our systems and are implementing standard laboratory
information and billing systems across our operations, including those from our
most recent acquisitions. We expect implementation will take several more years
to complete, and will result in significantly more centralized systems,
improved operating efficiency, more timely and comprehensive information for
management and enhanced control over our operational environment.

Quality
Assurance.

In our clinical testing business, our goal
is to continually improve the processes for collection, handling, storage and
transportation of patient specimens, as well as the precision and accuracy of
analysis and result reporting. Our quality assurance efforts focus on
pre-analytic, analytic and post-analytic processes, including positive patient
identification of specimens, report accuracy, proficiency testing, reference
range relevance, process audits, statistical process control and personnel
training for all of our laboratories and patient service centers. We also focus
on the licensing, credentialing, training and competence of our professional and
technical staff. We have implemented an enhanced specimen tracking system, with
global positioning system capabilities, that enables us to better track
specimens. We continue to implement our Six Sigma and standardization
initiatives to help achieve our goal of becoming recognized as the undisputed
quality leader in the healthcare services industry. In addition, some of our
laboratories have achieved International Organization for Standardization, or
ISO, certification. These certifications are international standards for
quality management systems. In 2010, we took a number of steps to further
enhance our quality assurance program, including actions to reduce errors, to
measure and monitor performance and to drive process discipline.

As
part of our comprehensive quality assurance program, we utilize internal
proficiency testing, extensive quality control and rigorous process audits for
our clinical laboratory operations. For most clinical laboratory tests, quality
control samples are processed in parallel with the analysis of patient
specimens. The results of tests on these quality control samples are monitored
to identify trends, biases or imprecision in our analytical processes.

We
participate in external proficiency testing and have accreditation or licenses
for our clinical laboratory operations from various regulatory agencies or
accrediting organizations, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (“CMS”), the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) and certain
states. All of our laboratories participate in various external quality
surveillance programs. They include, but are not limited to, proficiency
testing programs administered by CAP, as well as some state agencies. CAP is an
independent, non-governmental organization of board-certified pathologists
approved by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine compliance with
the standards required by CLIA. CAP offers an accreditation program to which
laboratories may voluntarily subscribe. All of our major regional and esoteric
laboratories, including our facility in India, and most of our rapid response
laboratories, are accredited by CAP. Accreditation includes on-site inspections
and participation in the CAP (or equivalent) proficiency testing program. Also,
all of our cytotechnologists and pathologists participate in an individual
proficiency testing program.

Our
diagnostic products businesses maintain extensive quality assurance programs
focused on ensuring that our products are safe and effective and that we comply
with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States, Europe and
Australia. They are regulated by the FDA and are required to be in compliance
with the Quality Systems Regulations, 21 CFR part 820, and with applicable
standards outside the U.S. In addition, our manufacturing sites are certified
in accordance with, or audited by the deemed authority for, ISO 13485: 2003
standards. We endeavor to design and manufacture our diagnostics products in
compliance with Quality Systems Regulations. In addition, the diagnostics
products businesses maintain procedures designed to ensure that products we
purchase conform to their specifications.

Intellectual
Property Rights.

We own significant intellectual
property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries.
From time to time, we also license U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent
applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks
owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and
licenses are of material importance to our business. We believe, however, that
no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license
is material to our business as a whole.

Our
approach is to manage our intellectual property assets to safeguard them and to
maximize their value to our enterprise. We generally actively defend our
intellectual property assets and pursue protection of our products, processes
and other intellectual property where possible.

Our
success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by
continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in
part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable
terms. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain
patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be
performing, particularly in such emerging areas as gene-based testing and other
specialty


testing, that
could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell
our tests or operate our business.

Employees.

At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 42,000 people. This total
excludes employees of the joint ventures where we do not have a majority
interest. We have no collective bargaining agreements with any unions covering
any employees in the United States, and we believe that our overall relations
with our employees are good.

B

ILLING AND REIMBURSEMENT

Billing.

We generally bill for clinical testing services on a fee-for-service basis
under one of two types of fee schedules. These fees may be negotiated or
discounted. The types of fee schedules are:

•

“Client”
 fees charged to physicians, hospitals, and institutions for which a clinical
 laboratory performs testing services on a wholesale basis and which are
 billed on a monthly basis.

•

“Patient”
 fees charged to individual patients and certain third-party payers on a
 claim-by-claim basis.

Billing
for clinical testing services is very complicated, and we maintain compliance
policies and procedures for our billing. Patients, insurance companies,
Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups all have
different billing requirements. Some billing arrangements require us to bill
multiple payers, and there are several other factors that complicate billing
(e.g., disparity in coverage and information requirements among various payers;
incomplete or inaccurate billing information provided by ordering physicians).
We incur additional costs as a result of our participation in Medicare and
Medicaid programs because clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology
services are subject to complex, stringent and frequently ambiguous federal and
state laws and regulations, including those relating to coverage, billing and
reimbursement. Changes in laws and regulations could further complicate our
billing and increase our billing expense. CMS establishes procedures and
continuously evaluates and implements changes to the reimbursement process and
requirements for coverage.

As
an integral part of our billing compliance program, we investigate reported
failures or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare
reimbursement requirements. Any Medicare or Medicaid overpayments resulting
from non-compliance are reimbursed by us. As a result of these efforts, we have
periodically identified and reported overpayments, reimbursed the payers for
overpayments and taken appropriate corrective action.

In
2010, our bad debt expense was 4% of our net revenues. We believe that most of
our bad debt expense is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing
information on requisitions and Advance Beneficiary Notices received from
healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the portion of the
receivable that is their responsibility, rather than credit related issues.
Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact our bad debt expense. In
general, we perform the requested tests and report test results regardless of
whether the billing information is correct or complete. We subsequently attempt
to contact the healthcare provider or patient to obtain any missing information
and to rectify incorrect billing information. Missing or incorrect information
on requisitions complicates and slows down the billing process, creates
backlogs of unbilled requisitions and generally increases the aging of accounts
receivable and bad debt expense. The increased use of electronic ordering
reduces the incidence of missing or incorrect information.

Government
Coverage and Reimbursements.

Government payers, such
as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps and can be expected to continue to
take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare
services, including clinical test services. For example, Medicare carriers have
adopted policies under which they do not pay for many commonly ordered clinical
tests unless the ordering physician has provided an appropriate diagnosis code
supporting the medical necessity of the test. Physicians are required by law
to provide diagnostic information when they order clinical tests for Medicare
and Medicaid patients. In addition, the final 2011 Physician Fee Schedule rule
includes a requirement that all laboratory requisitions, with the exception of
electronic orders, contain the ordering physician’s signature in order to
be billable to Medicare. CMS had postponed this requirement until the beginning
of the second quarter of 2011. Recent published reports indicate
that CMS plans to rescind this requirement; however, CMS has not officially announced
its decision.

The
healthcare industry has experienced significant changes in reimbursement
practices during the past several years. Historically, many different local
carriers administered Medicare Part B, which covers services provided by
commercial clinical laboratories. They often had inconsistent policies,
increasing the complexity of the billing process for clinical laboratories.
They are being replaced with contractors who will administer Part B benefits
for beneficiaries in larger regional areas. It is expected that the revised
system will reduce the administrative complexity of billing for services
provided to Medicare beneficiaries.

With
regard to the clinical test services performed on behalf of Medicare
beneficiaries, we must bill the Medicare program directly and must accept the
carrier’s fee schedule amount for covered services as payment in full. In


addition,
state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more (and in most instances,
pay significantly less) than Medicare. Currently, Medicare does not require the
beneficiary to pay a co-payment for clinical laboratory testing. Certain
Medicaid programs require Medicaid recipients to pay co-payment amounts for
clinical laboratory testing. Medicare patients generally are required to make
co-payments for anatomic pathology services.

Part
B of the Medicare program contains fee schedule payment methodologies for
clinical testing services, and for pathology and other physician services,
performed for covered patients, including a national ceiling on the amount that
carriers could pay under their local Medicare clinical testing fee schedules.
The Medicare national fee schedule for clinical testing services for 2011 is
reduced by 1.75% from 2010 levels as a result of the 2010 federal healthcare
reform legislation. This reduction is the first of a series of such annual
reductions effective from 2011 to 2015. In December 2010, Congress delayed by
one year a potential 30% decrease in the physician fee schedule that otherwise
would have become effective January 1, 2011. The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net
revenues reimbursed under Medicare attributable to the clinical testing and
physician fee schedules in 2010.

Penalties
for violations of laws relating to billing government healthcare programs and
for violations of federal and state fraud and abuse laws include: (1) exclusion
from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3)
civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Civil
monetary penalties for a wide range of violations may be assessed on a per
violation basis. A parallel civil remedy under the federal False Claims Act
provides for penalties on a per violation basis, plus damages of up to three
times the amount claimed.

Historically,
most Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries were covered under the traditional
Medicare and Medicaid programs administered by the federal government. Over the
last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its
contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries and
has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to
the private programs, called “Medicare Advantage” programs. There has been
continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs
and of beneficiary enrollment in these plans. In recent years, in an effort to
control costs, states also have increasingly mandated that Medicaid
beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. The 2010 federal
healthcare reform legislation is intended to control the growth of Medicare
Advantage programs, encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional
Medicare programs and expand the eligibility for traditional Medicaid programs.

R

EGULATION

Our
businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (at both the federal and state levels),
    and the other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws and
regulations include regulations over aspects of our business, and laws and
regulations relating to conducting our business generally (e.g., export
controls laws, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other
jurisdictions), including in the United States and in the other jurisdictions
in which we conduct business. We also are subject to inspections and audits by
governmental agencies. Set forth below are highlights of the key regulatory
areas applicable to our businesses.

CLIA
and State Clinical Laboratory Licensing Regulations.

All of our laboratories and, where applicable, patient service centers, are
licensed and accredited as required by the appropriate federal and state
agencies. CLIA regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that
they be certified by the federal government and comply with various technical,
operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that the
services provided are accurate, reliable and timely. The cost of compliance
with CLIA makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical
laboratories in their offices. However, manufacturers of laboratory equipment
and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care
test equipment to physicians and by selling to both physicians and patients
test kits approved by the FDA for home use. Diagnostic tests approved or
cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests
under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal
regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes.

CLIA
does not preempt state laws that are more stringent than federal law. State
laws may require additional personnel qualifications, quality control, record
maintenance and/or proficiency testing. State laws also may require detailed
review of our scientific validations and technical procedures for tests.


Fraud and Abuse Rules.

Federal
anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit making payments or furnishing other
benefits to influence the referral of tests billed to Medicare, Medicaid or
certain other federal or state healthcare programs. The penalties for violation
of these laws and regulations may include monetary fines, criminal and civil
penalties and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Several states have similar
laws.

In
addition, federal and state anti-self-referral laws generally prohibit Medicare
and Medicaid payments for clinical tests referred by physicians who have a
personal investment in, or a compensation arrangement with, the testing
laboratory. Some states also have similar laws that are not limited to Medicare
and Medicaid referrals and could also affect investment and compensation
arrangements with physicians.

FDA.

The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test
kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform
diagnostic testing in the United States. The FDA also regulates clinical trials
(and, therefore, testing that we perform for sponsors of those trials),
drugs-of-abuse testing for employers, testing for blood bank purposes and
testing of donors of human cells for purposes such as in vitro fertilization. A
number of esoteric tests we develop internally are first offered as
laboratory-developed tests (“LDTs”). The FDA has claimed regulatory authority
over all LDTs, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most
LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. During 2010, the
FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory authority
over LDTs, and that it plans to issue guidance to the industry regarding its
regulatory approach. The FDA has indicated that it will use a risk-based
approach to regulation and will direct more resources to tests with wider
distribution and with the highest risk of injury, but that it will be sensitive
to the need to not adversely impact patient care or innovation. The FDA has not
announced a framework or timetable for implementing its new regulatory
approach. The regulatory approach adopted by the FDA may lead to an increased
regulatory burden on our Company, including additional costs and delays in
introducing new tests.

Laboratories
use analyte specific reagents (“ASRs”) in some LDTs. Under current FDA
guidance, manufacturers of certain products previously marketed as ASRs must
file for FDA clearance of these products in order to market them in the United
States. In addition, the FDA recently has increased its scrutiny of reagents
and kits labeled Research Use Only (“RUO”) or Investigational Use Only (“IUO”)
and has announced that it plans to issue guidance on RUO and IUO labeled
products. The regulation of ASR, RUO or IUO products could result in increased
product cost, a delay in obtaining them or, if a manufacturer withdraws its
products from the market, an inability to obtain the product. These factors may
hinder our ability to develop and market new products or services or cause an
increase in the cost of our products or services.

Our
diagnostic product business is subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as by
foreign governmental agencies, including countries within the European Union
who have adopted the Directive on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (“IVDD”).
These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing,
manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and post-market
surveillance of diagnostic products. Prior to commercially marketing or selling
most diagnostic products in the U.S., we are required to secure clearance or
approval from the FDA. Similarly, we may need to obtain a license or
certification such as a CE mark in order to sell diagnostic products outside
of the U.S. Compliance with the IVDD allows us to market in Europe once we obtain
a CE mark (obtainable where the manufacturer certifies that the device conforms
to the regulatory and quality requirements for the device). Following the
introduction of a diagnostic product into the market, the FDA and non-U.S.
agencies engage in periodic inspections and reviews of the manufacturing
processes and product performance. Compliance with these regulatory controls
can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and
continued availability of new products. These agencies possess the authority
to take various administrative and legal actions against us for non-compliance,
such as fines, product suspensions, submission of warning letters, recalls,
product seizures, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions. Where
appropriate, voluntary compliance actions, such as voluntary recalls, may be
undertaken.

Environmental,
      Health and Safety.

We are
subject to laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment,
the health and safety of employees and the handling, transportation and
disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive
materials. For example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating specifically
to workplace safety for healthcare employers in the U.S. This includes
requirements to develop and implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers
from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C,
including preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick injuries.
For purposes of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory
supplies are classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation
by one or more of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation,
the U.S. Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service and the
International Air Transport Association. We generally use third-party vendors
to dispose of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive
materials and contractually require them to comply with applicable laws and
regulations.


Physicians.

Many
    of our pathologists enter into an employment agreement. These agreements
    have varying terms, but generally can be terminated at any time, upon advance
    notice. Most of the agreements contain covenants generally limiting the activities
    of the pathologist within a defined geographic area for a limited period
    of time after termination of employment. The agreements may be subject to
    limitations under state law that may limit the enforceability of these covenants.

Our
pathologists are required to hold a valid license to practice medicine in the
jurisdiction in which they practice. If they provide inpatient services, they
must become a member of the medical staff at the relevant hospital, with
privileges in pathology.

Several
states, including some in which our businesses are located, prohibit business
corporations from engaging in the practice of medicine. In certain states,
business corporations are prohibited from employing licensed healthcare
professionals to provide services on behalf of the corporation; these laws vary
from state to state. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized
to perform medical services may be governed by the laws of the state in which
medical services are provided and by the medical boards or other entities
authorized by these states to oversee the practice of medicine. In some states,
anatomic pathology services are delivered through physician-owned entities that
employ the practicing pathologists.

Privacy and Security of Health and Personal
Information.

We are required to comply with laws and regulations in
the United States (at the federal and state levels) and jurisdictions outside
the United States in which we conduct business, including the European Union,
regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and
personal information. These privacy and security laws include the federal
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended, and the
regulations thereunder (collectively, “HIPAA”). The HIPAA security regulations
establish requirements for safeguarding electronic protected health
information. The HIPAA privacy regulations establish comprehensive federal
standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information.
Together, these laws and regulations establish a complex regulatory framework
on a variety of subjects, provide for penalties for non-compliance, and may require
a healthcare provider to notify patients or the government if the provider
discovers certain breaches of unsecured personal or a patient’s protected
health information. We have implemented practices to meet applicable
requirements.

Drug Testing; Controlled Substances.

All
U.S. laboratories that perform drug testing for public sector employees and
employees of certain federally regulated businesses are required to be
certified as meeting the detailed performance and quality standards of the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. To obtain access to controlled
substances used to perform drugs-of-abuse testing in the United States,
laboratories must be licensed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. All of
our laboratories that perform such testing or that utilize controlled
substances are so certified or so licensed, respectively.

Compliance.

We seek to conduct our business
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Many of the laws and
regulations applicable to us, however, including many of those relating to
billing, reimbursement of tests and relationships with physicians and
hospitals, are vague or indefinite or have not been interpreted by the courts.
They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial
authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations,
including our pricing and/or billing practices. The applicability or
interpretation of laws and regulations also may not be clear in light of emerging
changes in clinical testing science and healthcare technology. Such
occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could, among other things:

If
we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil
and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Certain federal and state statutes, regulations and
other laws, including the

qui tam

provisions of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring
lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private
payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on theories as to our
current practices that we believe


are lawful.
The federal and state governments have substantial leverage in negotiating
settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at
which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding a
non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. Reimbursement from traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs
represented approximately 18% of our net revenues during 2010. We believe that,
based on our experience with settlements and public announcements by various
government officials, the federal and state governments continue to strengthen
their enforcement efforts against healthcare fraud. In addition, legislative
provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government
enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to
pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.

We
have a long-standing and well-established compliance program. The Quality,
Safety & Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our
compliance program and requires periodic management reports regarding our
compliance program. Our program includes detailed policies and procedures and
training programs intended to ensure the strict implementation and observance
of all applicable laws, regulations and Company policies. Further, we conduct
in-depth reviews of procedures and facilities to assure regulatory compliance
throughout our operations. We conduct annual training of our employees on these
compliance policies and procedures.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We
file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may
read and copy any document that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public
reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information regarding the public reference room. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including
Quest Diagnostics) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings
are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.QuestDiagnostics.com. You can access Quest Diagnostics’
Investor Relations webpage at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/investor. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.
We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage,
our proxy statements, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed
with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor
Relations webpage, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities
filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

We
have a corporate governance webpage. You can access information regarding our
corporate governance at www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance. We post the
following on our corporate governance webpage:

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following
persons serve as executive officers of the Company.

Surya N. Mohapatra, Ph.D.

(61) is Chairman
of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining the
Company in February 1999 as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
he was Senior Vice President of Picker International, a worldwide leader in
advanced medical imaging technologies. Dr. Mohapatra was appointed President and
Chief Operating Officer in June 1999, Chief Executive Officer in May 2004 and
Chairman of the Board in December 2004. He is a director of ITT Corporation, a
trustee of The Rockefeller University and a member


of the
Corporate Advisory Board of Johns Hopkins Carey Business School. Dr. Mohapatra
has been a director of the Company since 2002.

Jon R. Cohen, M.D.

(56) is Senior Vice
President and Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Cohen joined the company in March
2009. He served as the Senior Advisor to New York Governor David Patterson from
2008 to 2009, where he was responsible for all policy and strategic planning.
From 2007 to 2008, Dr. Cohen was a managing director, health industries
advisory services at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Prior to that, he spent 21
years with North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, one of the nation’s
largest not-for-profit health systems, including serving as its Chief Medical
Officer from 2000 to 2006.

Robert A. Hagemann

(54) is Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. He joined Corning Life Sciences, Inc. in
1992, where he held a variety of senior financial positions before being named
Vice President and Corporate Controller of the Company in 1996. Mr. Hagemann
has served as Chief Financial Officer since August 1998. He is a director of
Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Joan E. Miller, Ph.D.

(56) is Senior Vice
President – Pathology and Hospital Services. Dr. Miller joined Corning Life
Sciences, Inc. in 1992 and since has held positions of increasing
responsibility. Dr. Miller was named Senior Managing Director, Nichols
Institute in 2002 and Vice President, Hospital Business in 2003. Since June
2007, Dr. Miller has overseen the Company’s hospital testing services,
including its esoteric testing facilities, and its anatomic pathology testing
services.

Michael E. Prevoznik

(49) is Senior Vice
President and General Counsel. Mr. Prevoznik joined the Company as Vice
President and General Counsel in August 1999. In 2003, he assumed responsibility
for governmental affairs. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Prevoznik served in
positions of increasing responsibility within the compliance organization at
SmithKline Beecham, most recently as Vice President, Compliance, with
responsibility for coordinating all SmithKline Beecham compliance activities
worldwide.

Wayne R. Simmons

(55) is Vice President –
Operations. Since July 2007, he has overseen the Company’s U.S. clinical
testing operations. Mr. Simmons joined the Company in February 2004 as Vice
President for our central region. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Simmons
served in positions of increasing responsibility with Philips Medical Systems,
including, since 2002, as Vice President of Supply Chain, in which position he
was responsible for operations at Philips Medical Systems CT Operations
facilities globally.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

You
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report,
including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our
securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional
risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also
negatively impact us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

This
Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or
uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the
risks we face described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that
May Affect Future Results” on page 28.

Continued weakness in U.S., global, or
regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses.

The
economies of the United States and other regions of the world in which we do
business continue to experience significant weakness which, in the case of the
U.S., has resulted in significant unemployment and reduced economic activity.
Continued weakness or a further decline in economic conditions may adversely
affect demand for our services and products, thus reducing our revenue. These
conditions also could impair the ability of those with whom we do business to
satisfy their obligations to us.

The clinical testing business is highly
competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service
or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse
effect on our revenues and profitability.

While
there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical
testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry.

We
primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. We also compete with anatomic pathology
practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain
on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or
outpatient). In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical
laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Most physicians have
admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their


medical
practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community
physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the
hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices
generally require the practices to refer tests to the hospital’s laboratory. As
a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we
compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and
scope of service. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices
enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen
their competitive position. Our failure to provide a broad test menu or service
superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have
a material adverse effect on our business.

If
we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and
our revenues and profitability could be damaged.

U.S. healthcare reform legislation may result
in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail
to adapt.

Government oversight of and attention to the
healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing. In
March 2010, U.S. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. The
legislation provides for reductions in the Medicare clinical laboratory fee
schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a
productivity adjustment that reduces the CPI market basket update beginning in 2011.
The legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain
medical devices in the United States, including those purchased and used by
laboratories, beginning in 2013. The legislation establishes the Independent
Payment Advisory Board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually
to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving
quality. These proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress
enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further,
the legislation calls for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that
will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration
programs. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including
the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on
coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and
other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and
regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help
cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The legislation also permits
the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery
model. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry
is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change.
Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on
our business.

FDA regulation of LDTs and clinical laboratories
may result in significant change, and our business could be adversely impacted
if we fail to adapt.

During
2010, the FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory
authority over LDTs, and that it plans to issue guidance to the industry
regarding its regulatory approach. The FDA has indicated that it will use a
risk-based approach to regulation and will direct more resources to tests with
wider distribution and with the highest risk of injury, but that it will be sensitive
to the need to not adversely impact patient care or innovation. The FDA has not
announced a framework or timetable for implementing its new regulatory
approach. The regulatory approach adopted by the FDA may lead to an increased
regulatory burden, including additional costs and delays in introducing new
tests. While the ultimate impact of the
FDA’s approach is unknown, it may be extensive and may result in significant
change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

Government payers, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of
healthcare services, including clinical test services.

We
face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for
clinical testing services.

From
time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the
Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition, CMS has adopted
policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We
also provide physician services which are reimbursed by Medicare under a
physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. CMS
changes add to our costs by increasing complexity and administrative
requirements for billing. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject
to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The 2010
federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are
designed to control utilization and payment levels.

In
addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to
expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare
beneficiaries, called “Medicare Advantage” programs, and has encouraged such
beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs.
There has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare
Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. Also in
recent years, states have increasingly mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries
enroll in private managed care arrangements. The 2010 federal healthcare reform
legislation is intended to control the growth of Medicare Advantage programs,
encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional Medicare programs and
expand the eligibility for


traditional
Medicaid programs. Recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to
consider several courses that may impact our business, such as delaying
payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, service
coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services.

From
time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding
can be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at
attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. If competitive
bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing,
it could materially adversely affect us.

We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Healthcare plans have taken steps to control
the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical
test services.

We
also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare
plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services.

The
healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare
insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant
bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers,
including clinical testing providers. These healthcare plans, and independent
physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated
with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment
arrangements. In addition, some healthcare plans have been willing to limit the
PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain
improved fee-for-service pricing. There are also an increasing number of
patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that
involve greater patient cost-sharing.

The
increased consolidation among healthcare plans also has increased the potential
adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.
The 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes provisions, including
ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage
healthcare insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting.

We
expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent
cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. These
efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and
policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare plan, may have
a material adverse effect on our business.

Business development activities are
inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may
be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse
effect on our business.

We
plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business
development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments
and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of
appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar
opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a
number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the
potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The
success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and
capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills
contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with
strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests.

Each
acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that was previously
operated independently and has different systems, processes, policies and
cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the
diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of
businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and
systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation
and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in
retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse
effects on operating results. The process of combining companies may be
disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of
momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among
others:


•

diversion of
 management’s attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a
 result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties;
 and

•

the added
 costs of dealing with such disruptions.

If
we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely
manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.
Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations
of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be
able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such
integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner.

Our business could be negatively affected if
we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency.

As
noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including
clinical testing services; such steps may continue. If we are unable to
continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our
profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected.

We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory
requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and
penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply.

Our
business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state
levels), and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we
seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of
the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not
been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to:

These
laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We
may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any
other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our
products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we
fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we
could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation
in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as
incur additional liabilities from third party claims. If any of the foregoing
were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business relationships
with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

We
regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from
governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam
claims brought by former employees or other “whistleblowers.” The federal
and state governments continue to strengthen their position and scrutiny over
healthcare fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare
fraud and abuse provide federal and state enforcement personnel substantially
increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The
government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount
of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our
products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a
non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of
investigations and related litigation can result in:


Although
we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or
tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with
applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved
favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion
of management focus may be extensive.

Changes
in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming
more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to
additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such
changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

Failure to timely or accurately bill for our
services could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Billing
for clinical testing services is extremely complicated and is subject to
extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on
the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as
patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and
employer groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity
and cost of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with
applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and
procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further,
our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result
of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems.

Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the
billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally
increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. We believe
that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack
of, or inaccurate, billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may
lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging
of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations
and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing
government healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including: (1)
exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset
forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our
business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or cash flows.

Failure in our information technology
systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could
disrupt our operations and cause the loss of customers or business
opportunities.

Information
technology (“IT”) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer
service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in
part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may
be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar
disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems. Nevertheless, we may
experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions.

In
addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information
and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete.
Failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially
adversely affect our business. During system conversions of this type, workflow
is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system
capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. In addition,
the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master
files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to
be managed carefully.

If
we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard
laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. For
example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver
test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. If our operations
are interrupted, it could


adversely
affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and revenues.

Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for,
new tests, technology and services, could negatively impact our testing volume
and revenues.

The
diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business
or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests that may
result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the
prices of our tests. Our success in continuing to introduce new tests,
technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and
improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or
introduce new tests. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable
licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield
commercially successful diagnostic tests. If we are unable to license these
testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may
increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce,
or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing
business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our
competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely
affected.

We may be unable to obtain, maintain or
enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual
property litigation that could adversely impact our business.

We
may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights
for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary
rights. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and
we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could
force us to do one or more of the following:

The development of new, more cost-effective
tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the
internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact
our testing volume and revenues.

Advances
in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can
be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as (1)
point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or
(3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by
physicians in their offices. Although CLIA compliance costs make it cost
prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their
offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to
increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians.
Diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically
deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to
both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care
testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our
customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and
negatively impact our revenues.

Some
of our customers, such as hospitals and physicians, are internalizing tests
that we currently perform, including anatomic pathology tests. If our customers
continue to internalize tests that we currently perform and we do not develop
new or alternative tests attractive to our customers, the demand for our testing
services may be reduced and our revenues may be materially adversely impacted.

Our outstanding debt may impair our financial
and operating flexibility.

As
of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $3.0 billion of debt outstanding.
Except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing
arrangements in place or available. Our debt agreements contain various
restrictive covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to use
operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a
portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. We
have obtained ratings on our debt from Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s
Investor Services and Fitch Ratings. There can be no


assurance that
any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a
rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that
rating agency’s judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the
rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so warrant. If
such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving
credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan could increase.
Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or
acceleration of any of our debt.

We
or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt, a greater portion of
our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we
do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may
need to seek additional financing. In that case, it may be more difficult, or
we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a
result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and
capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with
indebtedness.

Our ability to attract and retain qualified
employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so
may materially adversely affect our performance.

Our
people are a critical resource. The supply of qualified personnel may be limited
and competition for qualified employees is strong. If we were to lose, or to
fail to attract and retain, key management personnel or qualified skilled
technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research
centers or manufacturing facilities, our earnings and revenues could be
adversely affected. In addition, if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and
retain, skilled pathologists, particularly those with subspecialties, with
positive relationships with their respective local medical communities, our
earnings and revenues could be adversely affected.

Failure to establish, and perform to,
appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is
observed in the performance of our testing services and in the design,
manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of
our operations and adversely impact our reputation.

The
provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services,
and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic
products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we provide and the
products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide
information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore,
users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors
than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes.

Manufacturing
or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure
of risks relating to the use of the products can lead to injury or other
adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to
our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and
could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market.
Any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that
could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of
our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against
us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new
product approvals.

Similarly,
negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse
events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for
acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital
employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We
are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our
reputation.

The failure of our IT systems to keep pace
with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase
our expenses.

Public
and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (“HCIT”)
standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the
electronic exchange of clinical information, including test orders and test
results, could require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While
we do not expect HCIT standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate
time to comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we
could lose customers and business opportunities.

Our operations and reputation may be impaired
if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies.

In
our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient
data or personal information. If we do not adequately safeguard that
information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should
not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could
suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation.


We are subject to numerous political, legal,
operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which
could impact our business in many ways.

Although
we conduct most of our business in the United States, our expanding
international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing
business in international markets. Depending on the market, these risks
include, without limitation:

International
operations also require us to devote significant management resources to
implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to
overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures.

We
expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or
otherwise, which would increase these risks. As a result of these risks, our
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

Our medical diagnostic products business is
subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply
with these regulations and to develop compliant diagnostics products.

Our
medical diagnostic products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by
regulatory authorities outside the United States, including the European
Commission. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market
a medical diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and clearance or
approval for future products is never certain. Securing regulatory clearance or
approval of additional indications or uses of existing products is not
predictable. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain clearance or
approval for, future products, or new indications or uses, could result in
delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs.

In
addition, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with applicable
regulations once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. These
requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing
practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarket reporting, including
adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns.
Our diagnostic product facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are
subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and
other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable rules could
result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business
practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of our products; a total
or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while we or
our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability timely to obtain
future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of
current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our
business and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, revenues,
profitability or financial condition.

Our efforts to develop commercially
successful medical diagnostic products may not succeed.

We
may commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to developing
commercially successful medical diagnostic products. A high rate of failure is
inherent in the development of new medical diagnostic products. There is no
assurance that our efforts to develop these products will be commercially
successful. Failure can occur at any point


in the
development process, including after significant funds have been invested.

Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may have only limited
commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve
positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive
costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual
property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others.
Even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations
of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by newer products,
changing customer preferences or changing industry standards. Innovations may
not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third party
reimbursement. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our
medical diagnostic products under development will be launched, whether we will
be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire products, or whether any
diagnostic products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch
successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause our
products to become obsolete.

Our operations may be adversely impacted by
the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health
pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities.

Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of
terrorism or other criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary
decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our
employees’ ability to perform their job duties. In addition, such events may
temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials
from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.

Our business could be adversely impacted by
CMS’ adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses.

CMS
has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as ICD-10, which
significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. The new coding set is
currently required to be implemented by October 1, 2013. We may be required to
incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not
adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition,
if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate
codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests.

Our business could be adversely impacted by CMS’
adoption of new coding for molecular genetic tests.

In
October 2010, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel approved 27
new analyte specific codes (and will consider additional codes in 2011) to
describe several molecular genetic tests
that currently require multiple CPT codes for billing purposes. The
new codes could replace the current codes for payers, including
Medicare, beginning January 1, 2012. Reimbursement levels for the new codes
have yet to be determined. If reimbursement levels for the new codes do not
recognize the value of the molecular genetic tests, our revenues and earnings
could be adversely impacted.

Adverse results in material litigation could
have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and
reputation.

We
are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property,
professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from
governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers regarding billing
issues. Some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial
in amount and could divert management’s attention from operations. The
proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage
to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have
insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any
liability with respect to such claims. The ultimate outcome of the various
proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
impact of such matters is determined or paid.

If we fail to comply with the requirements of
our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to suspension or
termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial
monetary penalties.

As
part of a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and other federal
government agencies, in April 2009 we entered into a five-year Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Office of Inspector General. If we fail to comply with our obligations under
the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be suspended or terminated from
participating in certain federal healthcare programs and subject to substantial
monetary penalties.


CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE
RESULTS

Some
statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to
historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as
“may”, “believe”, “will”, “expect”, “project”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “plan”
or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans
and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to
unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information
presented in this document. The following important factors could cause our
actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted
or estimated by us in forward-looking statements:


Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

There are no
unresolved SEC comments that require disclosure.


Item 2. Properties

Our
executive offices are located in Madison, New Jersey. We maintain clinical
testing laboratories in major metropolitan areas and elsewhere throughout the
continental United States; in several instances a joint venture of which we are
a partner maintains the laboratory. We also maintain offices, data centers,
billing centers, call centers, an assembly center, distribution centers,
patient service centers and a clinical trials testing laboratory at locations
throughout the United States. In addition, we maintain offices, manufacturing
facilities, patient service centers and clinical laboratories in locations
outside the United States, including in Sweden, Puerto Rico, Mexico, the United
Kingdom, India, Ireland and Australia. Our properties that are not owned are
leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards
in the communities where these properties are located. We believe that, in
general, our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current and
anticipated future levels of operation and are adequately maintained. We
believe that if we were unable to renew a lease on any of our facilities, we
could find alternative space at competitive market rates and relocate our
operations to such new location without material disruption to our business.
Several of our principal facilities are highlighted below.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

In
addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, we
have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions,
including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in
connection with our activities as a provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services. These legal actions may include lawsuits alleging negligence or
other similar legal claims. These actions could involve claims for substantial
compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of
damages, and could have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation.

We
are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and
proceedings by governmental agencies regarding our business, including, among
other matters, operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse
judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The
number of these reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in recent
years with regard to many firms in the healthcare services industry, including
our Company.

We
maintain various liability insurance coverages for claims that could result
from providing, or failing to provide, clinical testing services, including
inaccurate testing results, and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits
our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims.

We
contest liability or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending
matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such
matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or
indeterminate damages or where investigations or proceedings are in the early
stages, we cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any,
related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they
ultimately will be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or
other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, we believe, based on
current knowledge, that the outcome of pending matters will not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, although the outcome of
such matters could be material to our results of operations and cash flows in
the period that such matters are determined or paid.

In
2006 and 2008, the Company and several of its subsidiaries received subpoenas
from the California Attorney General’s Office seeking documents relating to the
Company’s billings to MediCal, the California Medicaid program. The Company
cooperated with the government’s requests. Subsequently, the State of
California intervened as plaintiff in a civil lawsuit, California ex rel.
Hunter Laboratories, LLC v. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, et al. (the


“California
Lawsuit”), filed in California Superior Court against a number of clinical
laboratories, including the Company and several of its subsidiaries. The
complaint was originally filed by a competitor laboratory in California under
the whistleblower provisions of the California False Claims Act. The complaint
was unsealed on March 20, 2009.

The
complaint alleges that, among other things, the Company overcharged MediCal for
testing services and violated the California False Claims Act. Violations of
this statute and related regulations could lead to an injunction, fines or
penalties, and exclusion from MediCal, as well as claims by third parties.

In
the third quarter of 2010, the California Department of Health Care Services
(the “Department”) conducted an audit of the Company’s billing to MediCal. The
Department contends that the Company’s billings are not consistent with applicable
California regulations, as currently interpreted by the Department. While the
Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with California
requirements applicable to billing for clinical laboratory testing, the Company
entered into an interim agreement under which it has agreed to temporarily
suspend billing MediCal for a period of up to six months through March 1, 2011,
during which it continues to provide services. If the California Lawsuit is not
resolved by March 1, 2011, the Company and the Department have agreed to
negotiate in good faith the terms of a further agreement. The Company has
continued to recognize revenue from MediCal for services provided in accordance
with its interpretation of California regulations related to billing for
clinical laboratory testing. An unfavorable outcome of the California Lawsuit
could, among other consequences noted above, result in reduced reimbursement
from the MediCal program. Revenue from the MediCal program in 2010 was
approximately $66 million. At December 31, 2010, amounts due from MediCal
totaled approximately $25 million, including those amounts related to services
performed during the temporary suspension of billing under the interim
agreement described above.

The
Company has been engaged in discussions in an attempt to resolve the matters
described above. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company reached an
understanding, which was highly conditioned, to settle these matters pursuant
to which the Company would pay $241 million. Conditions included, but were not
limited to, reaching an agreement regarding the manner in which the Company’s
future billings would be treated by the Department. However, as of this date,
the Company has been unable to reach an agreement to settle these matters, and
no assurance can be given that an agreement will be reached. If the Company
cannot resolve these matters through these discussions, it will continue to
vigorously defend itself, and will pursue any available collateral actions to
enforce its rights, if necessary. Based on the current facts and circumstances,
a liability, if any, is not determinable at this time. Although management does
not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of such matters will have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, the outcome may be
material to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in the period in
which the impact of such matters is determined or paid.

In
2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Office of Inspector General, seeking business records
including records regarding the Company’s relationship with health maintenance
organizations, independent physician associations, group purchasing
organizations, and preferred provider organizations relating back to 1995. The
Company has cooperated with the investigation. Subsequently, in November 2009,
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York partially
unsealed a civil complaint, U.S. ex rel. Fair Laboratory Practices Associates
v. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, filed against the Company under the
whistleblower provisions of the federal False Claims Act. The complaint
alleges, among other things, violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute
and the federal False Claims Act in connection with the Company’s pricing
of laboratory services. The complaint seeks damages for alleged false claims
associated with laboratory tests reimbursed by government payors, treble
damages and civil penalties.

In
June 2009, a shareholder plaintiff filed a purported derivative action in the
Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris County, on behalf of the Company against
certain present and former directors and officers of the Company based on,
among other things, their alleged breaches of fiduciary duties in connection
with the manufacture, marketing, sale and billing related to certain test kits
manufactured by NID. The complaint includes claims for, among other things,
breach of fiduciary duty and waste of corporate assets and seeks, among other
things, damages and remission of compensation received by the individual
defendants. The Company filed a motion
to dismiss the complaint on June 30, 2010. The motion was granted, and the time
for an appeal has expired.

In
April 2010, a putative class action was filed against the Company and NID in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York on behalf of
entities that allegedly purchased or paid for certain of NID’s test kits. The
complaint alleges that certain of NID’s test kits were defective and that
defendants, among other things, violated RICO and state consumer protection
laws. The complaint alleges an unspecified amount of damages.

In
August 2010, a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Superior Court of
New Jersey, Morris County,


on behalf of
the Company against the directors and certain present officers of the Company.
The complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties in
connection with, among other things, alleged overcharges by the Company to
MediCal for testing services, and seeks unspecified compensatory damages and
equitable relief.

In
November 2010, a putative class action was filed against the Company and
certain present and former officers of the Company in the Superior Court of New
Jersey, Essex County, on behalf of the Company’s sales people nationwide who
were over forty years old and who either resigned or were terminated after
being placed on a performance improvement plan. The complaint alleges that the
defendants’ conduct violates the New Jersey Law Against Discrimination, and
seeks, among other things, unspecified damages. The defendants removed the
complaint to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.

In
addition, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries have received subpoenas
from state agencies in five states and from the Office of Inspector General
of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services which seek documents relating
to the Company’s billing practices. The Company is cooperating with the
requests.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on new theories as to the
Company’s practices which management believes to be in compliance with law.
In addition, certain federal and state statutes, including the qui tam provisions
of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring
lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government or private
payers. The Company is aware of certain pending individual or class action
lawsuits, and has received several subpoenas, related to billing practices
filed under the qui tam provisions of the Civil False Claims Act and/or other
federal and state statutes, regulations or other laws. The Company understands
that there may be other pending qui tam claims brought by former employees or
other “whistleblowers” as to which the Company cannot determine the
extent of any potential liability.

Several
of these matters are in their early stages of development and involve
responding to and cooperating with various government investigations and
related subpoenas. While the Company believes that at least a reasonable
possibility exists that losses may have been incurred, based on the nature and
status of the investigations, the losses are either currently not probable or a
range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated.

Item 4. Removed and Reserved

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our
common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol “DGX.” As of February 1, 2011, we had approximately 4,600 record holders
of our common stock; we believe that the number of beneficial holders of our
common stock exceeds the number of record
holders. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low sales price per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Consolidated Tape and dividend information.


We
expect to fund future dividend payments with cash flows from operations, and do
not expect the dividend to have a material impact on our ability to finance
future growth.

The
table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on
behalf of the Company of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2010.

ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(A)

Since the
 share repurchase program’s inception in May 2003, our Board of Directors has
 authorized $3.8 billion of share repurchases of our common stock through
 December 31, 2010.

(B)

Includes:
 (1) shares delivered or attested to in satisfaction of the exercise price
 and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee stock options
 (granted under the Company’s Amended and Restated Employee Long-Term
 Incentive Plan and its Amended and Restated Director Long-Term Incentive
 Plan, collectively the “Stock Compensation Plans”) who exercised options; (2)
 restricted common shares withheld (under the terms of grants


under the
 Stock Compensation Plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur
 upon vesting and release of the restricted common shares; and (3) shares
 withheld (under the terms of grants under the Stock Compensation Plans) to
 offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon the delivery of
 outstanding common shares underlying restricted stock units and performance
 share units.

(C)

In January
 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase an
 additional $750 million of the Company’s common stock, bringing the total
 amount that the Company was authorized to repurchase to $1.0 billion. The
 share repurchase authorization has no set expiration or termination date.

On January
 31, 2011, the Company agreed to repurchase 15.4 million shares of its common
 stock from SB Holdings Capital Inc., an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline plc,
 at a purchase price of $54.30 per share for $835 million (the “Repurchase”).
 Subsequent to the Repurchase, which closed on February 4, 2011, the Company’s
 remaining share repurchase authorization totaled $165 million.

Performance Graph

Set
forth below is a line graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return
on Quest Diagnostics’ common stock since December 31, 2005, based on the market
price of the Company’s common stock and assuming reinvestment of dividends,
with the cumulative total shareholder return of companies on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Healthcare Equipment & Services
Index.

For
information regarding our equity compensation plans, see Item 12, page 36.


I

tem 6. Selected Financial Data

See
page 40.

I

tem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

See
page 42.

I

tem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk

See
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

I

tem 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

See
Item 15(a)1 and Item 15(a)2.

I

tem 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

I

tem 9A. Controls and Procedures

Conclusion Regarding Effectiveness of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as
of the end of the period covered by this annual report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

See
page 61.

Changes in Internal Control

During
the fourth quarter of 2010, there were no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended) that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

I

tem 9B. Other Information

None.

PART III

I

tem 10. Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance

Our
Code of Business Ethics applies to all employees, executive officers and
directors, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and
Corporate Controller. You can find our Code of Business Ethics on our corporate
governance website,

www.QuestDiagnostics.com/governance

.
We will post any amendments to the Code of Business Ethics, and any waivers
that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New
York Stock Exchange, on our website.

Information
regarding the Company’s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item
1 of this Report under “Executive Officers of the Company.” Information
regarding the directors and executive officers of the Company appearing in our
Proxy Statement to be filed by April 28, 2011 (“Proxy Statement”) under
the captions
“Matter to be Considered at the Meeting – Proposal No. 1 - Election
of Directors,” “Information about our Corporate Governance – Director
Independence,” “Information about our Corporate Governance – Board
Committees,” and “Information about our Corporate Governance – Audit
and Finance Committee” is incorporated by reference herein.

I

tem 11. Executive Compensation

Information
appearing in our Proxy Statement under the captions “2010 Director Compensation
Table,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Additional Information
Regarding Executive Compensation” and “Report of the Compensation Committee” is
incorporated by reference herein.


I

tem 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholders’ Matters

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The
following table provides information as of December 31, 2010 about our common
stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights
under the Company’s existing equity compensation plans:

Information
regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
appearing in our Proxy Statement under the caption “Stock Ownership
Information” is incorporated by reference herein.


I

tem 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence

Information
regarding certain relationships and related transactions appearing in our Proxy
Statement under the captions “Information about our Corporate Governance –
Related Person Transactions” and “Information about our Corporate Governance –
Director Independence” is incorporated by reference herein.

I

tem 14. Principal Accounting Fees and
Services

Information
regarding principal accountant fees and services appearing in our Proxy
Statement under the caption “Proposal No. 2 – Ratification of Appointment of
the Company’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” (excluding the
information under the subheading “Report of the Audit and Finance Committee”)
is incorporated by reference herein.


PART IV

I

tem 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules

(a)

Documents
 filed as part of this Report.

1.

Index to
 financial statements and supplementary data filed as part of this Report.

2.

Financial
 Statement Schedule.

Item

Page

Schedule II
 – Valuation Accounts and Reserves

F-47

3.

Exhibits

An exhibit
 index has been filed as part of this Report beginning on page E-1 and is
 incorporated herein by reference.


Signatures

Pursuant
to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 16, 2011.

Each
individual whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael E.
Prevoznik and William J. O’Shaughnessy, Jr., and each of them singly, his or
her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of
substitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might
or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all the said
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them or their or his or her substitute
or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on February 16, 2011.


S

ELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA OF OUR
COMPANY

The
following table summarizes selected historical financial data of our Company
and our subsidiaries at the dates and for each of the periods presented. We
derived the selected historical financial data for the years 2006 through 2010
from the audited consolidated financial statements of our Company. During the
third quarter of 2006, the Company completed its wind down of NID, a test kit
manufacturing subsidiary, and classified the operations of NID as discontinued
operations. The selected historical financial data is only a summary and should
be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements and related
notes of our Company and management’s discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.



QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

M

ANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

Our
Company

Quest
Diagnostics is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others
to make better healthcare decisions. Quest Diagnostics, with a leading position
in most of its domestic geographic markets and service offerings, is well
positioned to benefit from the long-term growth expected in the industry. Over
90% of our revenues are derived from clinical testing with the balance derived
from insurer services, clinical trials testing, diagnostic products and
healthcare information technology. Clinical testing is generally categorized
as clinical laboratory testing and anatomic pathology services. Clinical
laboratory testing is generally performed on whole blood, serum, plasma and
other body fluids, such as urine, and specimens such as microbiology samples.
Anatomic pathology services are principally for the detection of cancer and are
performed on tissues, such as biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells.
We are the leading cancer diagnostics testing provider focused on anatomic pathology
and molecular diagnostics, and provide interpretive consultation through the
largest medical and scientific staff in the industry, with approximately 900
M.D.s and Ph.D.s, primarily located in the United States. In addition, we are
the leading provider of gene-based and esoteric testing, and testing for drugs-of-abuse
in the United States, and the leading provider of risk assessment services for
the life insurance industry in North America. We are also a leading provider
of testing for clinical trials. Our diagnostics products business manufactures
and markets diagnostic test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. We also
empower healthcare organizations and clinicians with robust information
technology solutions that can improve patient care and medical practice.

The
Clinical Testing Industry

Clinical
testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services.
Physicians use laboratory tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis,
evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions.

Most
laboratory tests are performed by one of three types of laboratories:
commercial clinical laboratories; hospital-affiliated laboratories; or
physician-office laboratories. In 2010, we estimate that hospital-affiliated
laboratories accounted for approximately 60% of the market, commercial clinical
laboratories approximately one-third and physician-office laboratories the
balance.

Orders
for laboratory testing are generated from physician offices, hospitals and
employers and can be affected by a number of factors. For example, changes in
the United States economy can affect the number of unemployed and uninsured,
and design changes in healthcare plans can affect the number of physician
office and hospital visits, and can impact the utilization of laboratory
testing.

While
the economic slow down in the United States has temporarily reduced industry
growth rates, we believe the clinical testing industry will continue to grow
over the long term because clinical testing is an essential healthcare service
and because of the following key trends:

The
diagnostic testing industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations in operating
results and cash flows. Typically, testing volume declines during the summer
months, year-end holiday periods and other major holidays, reducing net
revenues and operating cash flows below annual averages. Testing volume is also
subject to declines due to severe weather or other events, which can deter
patients from having testing performed and which can vary in duration and
severity from year to year.


Healthcare
Reform

In
March 2010, U.S. federal legislation was enacted which is likely to have a
significant impact on, among other things, access to and the cost of healthcare
in the United States. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance
reforms and expands coverage for approximately 32 million previously uninsured
Americans, which will result in expanded access to healthcare. In addition, the
legislation eliminates patient cost-sharing for certain prevention and wellness
benefits for health insurance plans that are not “grandfathered.” We believe
these changes will benefit our industry by leading to increased utilization of
our services.

These
benefits are expected to be partially offset by provisions of the legislation
aimed at reducing the overall cost of healthcare. Impacting laboratories
specifically, the legislation provides for annual reductions in the Medicare
clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and
includes a productivity adjustment which reduces the CPI market basket update
beginning in 2011. In 2010, approximately 12% of our consolidated revenues were
reimbursed by Medicare under the clinical laboratory fee schedule. The
legislation also imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain
medical devices in the United States, including those purchased and used by
laboratories, beginning in 2013.

In
addition, the legislation is focused on reducing the growth of healthcare
costs. The legislation establishes the Independent Payment Advisory Board,
which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals
aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving quality. These
proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress enacts alternative
proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further, the legislation calls
for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that will examine alternative
payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs.

We
believe that the legislation will be a net positive for our industry over the
long term due to expanded coverage and the elimination of patient cost-sharing
for certain prevention and wellness benefits, and that we are well positioned
to respond to the evolving healthcare environment and related market forces;
    however,  our failure to adapt to these changes could be detrimental to our
    business.

Reimbursement
for Services

Payments
for clinical testing services are made by physicians, hospitals, employers,
healthcare insurers, patients and the government. Physicians, hospitals and
employers are typically billed on a fee-for-service basis based on negotiated
fee schedules. Fees billed to healthcare insurers and patients are based on the
laboratory’s patient fee schedule, subject to any limitations on fees
negotiated with the healthcare insurers or with physicians on behalf of their
patients. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements are based on fee schedules set
by governmental authorities.

Government
payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as healthcare insurers and
larger employers, have taken steps and may continue to take steps to control
the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical
testing services. In December 2010, Congress delayed by one year a potential
30% decrease in the Medicare fee schedule for pathology and other physician
services performed for patients and billed under Part B of the Medicare
program. In 2010, approximately 3% of our consolidated revenues were reimbursed
based on this fee schedule.

Healthcare
insurers, which typically negotiate directly or indirectly on behalf of their
members, represent approximately one-half of our clinical testing volumes and
one-half of our net revenues from our clinical testing business. Larger
healthcare insurers typically contract with large commercial clinical
laboratories because they can provide services to their members on a national
or regional basis. In addition, larger commercial clinical laboratories are
better able to achieve the low-cost structures necessary to profitably service
the members of large healthcare insurers and can provide test utilization data
across various products in a consistent format. In certain markets, such as
California, healthcare insurers may delegate their covered members to
independent physician associations, which in turn negotiate with laboratories
for clinical testing services on behalf of their members.

The
trend of consolidation among physicians, hospitals, employers, healthcare
insurers and other intermediaries has continued, resulting in fewer but larger
customers and payers with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee
arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories.
Healthcare insurers often require that clinical testing service providers
accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the utilization
risk associated with providing testing services to their members enrolled in
highly-restricted plans through capitated payment arrangements. Under these
capitated payment arrangements, we and the healthcare insurers agree to a
predetermined monthly reimbursement rate for each member enrolled in a
restricted plan, generally regardless of the number or cost of services provided
by us. Our cost to perform testing services reimbursed under capitated payment
arrangements is not materially different from our cost to perform testing
services reimbursed under other arrangements with healthcare insurers. Since
average reimbursement rates under capitated payment arrangements are typically
less


than our
overall average reimbursement rate, the testing services reimbursed under
capitated payment arrangements are generally less profitable. In 2010, we
derived approximately 13% of our testing volume and 4% of our clinical testing
net revenues from capitated payment arrangements.

Most
healthcare insurers also offer programs such as preferred provider
organizations (“PPOs”) and consumer driven health plans that offer a greater
choice of healthcare providers. Pricing for these programs is typically
negotiated on a fee-for-service basis, which generally results in higher
revenue per requisition than under capitation arrangements. Most of our
agreements with major healthcare insurers are non-exclusive arrangements. As a
result, under these non-exclusive arrangements, physicians and patients have
more freedom of choice in selecting laboratories, and laboratories are likely
to compete more on the basis of service and quality than they may otherwise. It
is increasingly important for healthcare providers to differentiate themselves
based on quality, service, convenience and unique test offerings to avoid
competing on price alone.

Despite
the general trend of increased choice for patients in selecting a healthcare
provider, some healthcare insurers may actively seek to limit the choice of
patients and physicians if they feel it will give them increased leverage to
negotiate lower fees, by consolidating services with a single or limited
network of contracted providers. Historically, healthcare insurers, which had
limited their network of laboratory service providers, encouraged their
members, and sometimes offered incentives, to utilize only contracted
providers. Patients who use a non-contracted provider may have a higher
co-insurance responsibility, which may result in physicians referring testing
to contracted providers to minimize the expense to their patients. In cases
where members choose to use a non-contracted provider, the non-contracted
provider would be reimbursed at rates considered “reasonable and customary.”
Contracted rates are generally lower than “reasonable and customary” rates.

We
also may be a member of a “complementary network.” A complementary network is
generally a set of contractual arrangements that a third party will maintain
with various providers which provide discounted fees for the benefit of its
customers. A member of a health plan may choose to access a non-contracted
provider that is a member of a complementary network; if so, the provider will
be reimbursed at a rate negotiated by the complementary network.

We
expect that reimbursements for the diagnostic testing industry will continue to
remain under pressure. Today, the federal and many state governments face
serious budget deficits and healthcare spending is subject to reductions, and
efforts to reduce reimbursements and stringent cost controls by government and
other payers for existing tests may continue. However, we believe that as new
tests are developed which either improve on the effectiveness of existing tests
or provide new diagnostic capabilities, the government and other payers will
add these tests as covered services, because of the importance of laboratory
testing in assessing and managing the health of patients. We continue to
emphasize the importance and the high value of laboratory testing with
healthcare insurers and government payers at the federal and state level.

Six
Sigma as a Means to Improve Quality and Operating Efficiency

The
diagnostic testing industry is labor intensive. Employee compensation and
benefits constitute approximately one-half of our total costs and expenses.
Cost of services consists principally of costs for obtaining, transporting and
testing specimens. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist
principally of the costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts,
billing operations (including bad debt expense), and general management and
administrative support. In addition, performing diagnostic testing involves
significant fixed costs for facilities and other infrastructure required to
obtain, transport and test specimens. Therefore, relatively small changes in
volume can have a significant impact on profitability in the short-term.

We
intend to become recognized as the quality leader in the healthcare services
industry through utilizing the Six Sigma approach and Lean Six Sigma
principles. Six Sigma is a management approach that enhances quality and
requires a thorough understanding of customer needs and experience, root cause
analysis, process improvements and rigorous tracking and measuring of key
metrics. Lean Six Sigma streamlines processes and eliminates waste. We utilize
the Six Sigma approach and Lean Six Sigma principles to improve the quality and
efficiency of our operations. We use Six Sigma to deploy best practices and
implement initiatives designed to reduce the cost of our operations and to
provide a better customer experience. We expect to continue deploying best
practices and developing additional initiatives designed to further improve
quality and the efficiency of our operations.


Growth Through Acquisition

The
clinical testing industry in the United States remains fragmented and highly
competitive. We expect to grow through a combination of organic and acquired
growth. We expect to continue to selectively evaluate potential acquisitions of
domestic clinical laboratories, both routine and esoteric, that can be
integrated into our existing laboratories, thereby increasing access for
patients and enabling us to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. While over
the long term we believe positive industry factors in the United States
diagnostic testing industry and the differentiated services we offer to our
customers will enable us to grow organically, we believe there will continue to
be opportunities to grow beyond our current principal business of offering
clinical testing in the United States. Technology is enabling testing to be
performed closer to the patient, whether in the physician’s office or at the
hospital bedside, in the form of point-of-care testing. Given that physicians
and hospitals are primary sources for both point-of-care testing and laboratory
performed tests, we believe providing both forms of testing will strengthen our
relationships with customers and accelerate our growth.

Additionally,
diagnostic testing in international markets, particularly developing countries,
is highly fragmented and less mature. Continued expansion into point-of-care
testing and international markets will diversify our revenue base, and provide
increased access to fast growing markets.

Critical Accounting Policies

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make
estimates and assumptions and select accounting policies that affect our
reported financial results and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities.

While
many operational aspects of our business are subject to complex federal, state
and local regulations, the accounting for most of our business is generally
straightforward with net revenues primarily recognized upon completion of the
testing process. Our revenues are primarily comprised of a high volume of
relatively low dollar transactions, and about one-half of our total costs and expenses
consist of employee compensation and benefits. Due to the nature of our
business, several of our accounting policies involve significant estimates and
judgments:

The
process for estimating the ultimate collection of receivables associated with
our clinical testing business involves significant assumptions and judgments.
Billings for services reimbursed by third-party payers, including Medicare and
Medicaid, are generally recorded as revenues net of allowances for differences
between amounts billed and the estimated receipts from such payers. Adjustments
to the allowances, based on actual receipts from the third-party payers, are
recorded upon settlement as an adjustment to net revenues.

We
have a standardized approach to estimate and review the collectibility of our
receivables based on a number of factors, including the period they have been
outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement experience is an
integral part of the estimation process related to revenues and allowances for
doubtful accounts. In addition, we regularly assess the state of our billing
operations in order to identify issues, which may impact the collectibility of
receivables or allowance estimates. We believe that the collectibility of our
receivables is directly linked to the quality of our billing processes, most
notably those related to obtaining the correct information in order to bill
effectively for the services we provide. As such, we have implemented “best
practices” to reduce the number of requisitions that we receive from healthcare
providers with missing or incorrect billing information. Revisions to the
allowances for doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad
debt expense within selling, general and administrative expenses. We believe
that our collection and allowance estimation processes, along with our close
monitoring of our billing operations, help to reduce the risk associated with
material revisions to reserve estimates. Less than 5% of our net accounts
receivable as of December 31, 2010 were outstanding more than 150 days.


The
following table shows current estimates of the percentage of our total volume
of requisitions and net revenues associated with our clinical testing business
during 2010 applicable to each payer group:

Healthcare insurers

Reimbursements from healthcare insurers
represent approximately one-half of our clinical testing net revenues.
Reimbursements from healthcare insurers are based on negotiated fee-for-service
schedules and on capitated payment rates.

Receivables
due from healthcare insurers represent approximately 27% of our clinical
testing net accounts receivable. Substantially all of the accounts receivable
due from healthcare insurers represent amounts billed under negotiated
fee-for-service arrangements. We utilize a standard approach to establish
allowances for doubtful accounts for such receivables, which considers the
aging of the receivables and results in increased allowance requirements as the
aging of the related receivables increases. Our approach also considers
historical collection experience and other factors. Collection of such
receivables is normally a function of providing complete and correct billing
information to the healthcare insurers within the various filing deadlines. For
healthcare insurers, collection typically occurs within 30 to 60 days of
billing. Provided we have billed healthcare plans accurately with complete
information prior to the established filing deadline, there has historically
been little to no collection risk. If there has been a delay in billing, we
determine if the amounts in question will likely go past the filing deadline,
and if so, we will reserve accordingly for the billing.

Approximately
4% of our clinical testing net revenues are reimbursed under capitated payment
arrangements, in which case the healthcare insurers typically reimburse us in
the same month services are performed, essentially giving rise to no
outstanding accounts receivable at month-end. If any capitated payments are not
received on a timely basis, we determine the cause and make a separate
determination as to whether or not the collection of the amount from the
healthcare insurer is at risk and if so, would reserve accordingly.

Government
payers

Payments
for clinical testing services made by the government are based on fee schedules
set by governmental authorities. Receivables due from government payers under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs represent approximately 18% of our clinical
testing net accounts receivable. Collection of such receivables is normally a
function of providing the complete and correct billing information within the
various filing deadlines. Collection typically occurs within 30 days of billing.
Our processes for billing, collecting and estimating uncollectible amounts for
receivables due from government payers, as well as the risk of non-collection,
are similar to those noted above for healthcare insurers under negotiated
fee-for-service arrangements. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion regarding amounts due from MediCal.

Client
payers

Client
payers include physicians, hospitals, employers and other commercial
laboratories, and are billed based on a negotiated fee schedule. Receivables
due from client payers represent approximately 33% of our clinical testing net
accounts receivable. Credit risk and ability to pay are more of a consideration
for these payers than healthcare insurers and government payers. We utilize a
standard approach to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for such
receivables, which considers the aging of the receivables and results in
increased allowance requirements as the aging of the related receivables increase.
Our approach also considers specific account reviews, historical collection
experience and other factors.

Patient
receivables

Patients
are billed based on established patient fee schedules, subject to any
limitations on fees negotiated with healthcare insurers or physicians on behalf
of their patients. Receivables due from patients represent approximately 22%


of our clinical testing net
accounts receivable. Collection of receivables due from patients is subject to
credit risk and ability of the patients to pay. We utilize a standard approach
to establish allowances for doubtful accounts for such receivables, which
considers the aging of the receivables and results in increased allowance
requirements as the aging of the related receivables increases. Our approach
also considers historical collection experience and other factors. Patient
receivables are generally fully reserved for when the related billing reaches
210 days outstanding. Balances are automatically written off when they are sent
to collection agencies. Reserves are adjusted for estimated recoveries of
amounts sent to collection agencies based on historical collection experience,
which is regularly monitored.

Reserves for general and professional liability claims

As
a general matter, providers of clinical testing services may be subject to
lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These suits could
involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability litigation
could also have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. We
maintain various liability insurance coverages for claims that could result
from providing, or failing to provide, clinical testing services, including
inaccurate testing results, and other exposures. Our insurance coverage limits
our maximum exposure on individual claims; however, we are essentially
self-insured for a significant portion of these claims. While the basis for
claims reserves considers actuarially determined losses based upon our
historical and projected loss experience, the process of analyzing, assessing
and establishing reserve estimates relative to these types of claims involves a
high degree of judgment. Changes in the facts and circumstances associated with
claims could have a material impact on our results of operations, principally
costs of services, and cash flows in the period that reserve estimates are
revised or paid. Although we believe that our present reserves and insurance coverage
are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures, it is possible
that we may incur liabilities in excess of our recorded reserves or
insurance coverage.

Reserves for other legal proceedings

Our
    businesses are subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing
    laws and regulations, including inspections and audits by governmental agencies,
    in the United States (at both the federal and state levels), and the other
    jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Although we believe that we are
    in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations,
    there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency would not reach a different
    conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition,
    these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
    regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
    changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices.
    We have, in the past, entered into several settlement agreements with various
    government and private payers relating to industry-wide billing and marketing
    practices that had been substantially discontinued. The federal or state
    governments may bring additional claims based on new theories as to our practices
    which management believes to be in compliance with law. In addition, certain
    federal and state statutes, including the qui tam provisions of the federal
    False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits against healthcare
    companies on behalf of government or private payers alleging inappropriate
    billing practices. We are aware of certain pending lawsuits including class
    action lawsuits, and have received several subpoenas related to billing practices.
    See Notes 15 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion
    of the various legal proceedings that involve the Company.

We
have a comprehensive compliance program that is intended to ensure the strict
implementation and observance of all applicable laws, regulations and Company
policies. Management regularly reports to the Quality, Safety & Compliance
Committee of our Board of Directors regarding compliance operations. As an
integral part of our compliance program, we investigate all reported or
suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement
requirements. Any non-compliance that results in Medicare or Medicaid
overpayments is reported to the government and reimbursed by us. As a result of
these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported overpayments. Upon
becoming aware of potential overpayments, we consider all available facts and
circumstances to estimate and record the amounts to be reimbursed. While we
have reimbursed these overpayments and have taken corrective action where
appropriate, the government may not in each instance accept these actions as
sufficient.

The
process of analyzing, assessing and establishing reserve estimates relative to
legal proceedings involves a high degree of judgment. Management has
established reserves for legal proceedings in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Changes in facts and circumstances related to
such proceedings could lead to significant revisions to reserve estimates for
such matters and could have a material impact on our results of operations,
cash flows and financial condition in the period that reserve estimates are
revised or paid.

Accounting for and recoverability of goodwill

We
evaluate the recoverability and measure the potential impairment of our
goodwill annually. The annual impairment test is a two-step process that begins
with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit. The first step
screens for potential impairment and the second step measures the amount of the
impairment, if any. Our estimate of


fair value considers
publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of our
Company, as well as (i) the financial projections and future prospects of our
business, including its growth opportunities and likely operational
improvements, and (ii) comparable sales prices, if available. As part of the
first step to assess potential impairment, we compare our estimate of fair
value for the reporting unit to the book value of the reporting unit. We
determine the fair value of the reporting units based on the income approach.
Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit
based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the book value is
greater than our estimate of fair value, we would then proceed to the second
step to measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied
fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is determined
by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and
liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a
business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase
price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the
reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the
implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s
goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will be
recognized in the amount of the excess. We believe our estimation methods are
reasonable and reflect common valuation practices.

On
a quarterly basis, we perform a review of our business to determine if events
or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have a material adverse
effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If such events or
changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, we would perform an
impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the quarter, consistent with the
annual impairment test performed at the end of our fiscal year on December
31st, and record any noted impairment loss.

Accounting for stock-based compensation expense

We
record stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings, net of the estimated
impact of forfeited awards. As such, we recognize stock-based compensation cost
only for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over
their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the
individual grants. The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based
compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their
requisite service periods involves significant assumptions and judgments.

We
estimate the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using a
lattice-based option-valuation model which requires management to make certain
assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of the Company’s
common stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the
period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise
(referred to as the expected holding period). The expected volatility under the
lattice-based option-valuation model is based on the current and historical
implied volatilities from traded options of our common stock. The dividend
yield is based on the approved annual dividend rate in effect and current
market price of the underlying common stock at the time of grant. The risk-free
interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time
of grant for bonds with maturities ranging from one month to ten years. The
expected holding period of the awards granted is estimated using the historical
exercise behavior of employees. In addition, we estimate the expected impact of
forfeited awards and recognize stock-based compensation cost only for those
awards expected to vest. We use historical experience to estimate projected
forfeitures. If actual forfeiture rates are materially different from our
estimates, stock-based compensation expense could be significantly different
from what we have recorded in the current period. We periodically review actual
forfeiture experience and revise our estimates, as considered necessary. The
cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a change in the estimated
forfeiture rate is recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the period of
the revision.

The
terms of our performance share unit grants allow the recipients of such awards
to earn a variable number of shares based on the achievement of the performance
goals specified in the awards. For performance share unit awards, the actual
amount of any stock award earned is based on the compound annual growth rate of
the Company’s earnings per share from continuing operations over a three-year
period as measured in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and
Restated Quest Diagnostics Incorporated Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Stock-based compensation expense associated with performance share units is
recognized based on management’s best estimates of the achievement of the
performance goals specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares
that will be earned. If the actual number of performance share units earned is
different from our estimates, stock-based compensation could be significantly
different from what we have recorded in the current period. The cumulative
effect on current and prior periods of a change in the estimated number of
performance share units expected to be earned is recognized as compensation
cost in earnings in the period of the revision. While the assumptions used to
calculate and account for stock-based compensation awards represent management’s
best estimates, these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the
application of management’s judgment. As a result, if revisions are made to our
assumptions and estimates, our stock-based compensation expense could vary
significantly from period to period. In addition, the number of awards made
under our equity compensation plans, changes in the design of those plans, the
price of our shares and the performance of our Company can all cause
stock-based compensation expense to vary from period to period.


Results of Operations

Our
clinical testing business currently represents our one reportable business
segment. The clinical testing business for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2010 accounted for more than 90% of net revenues from
continuing operations. Our other operating segments consist of our risk
assessment services, clinical trials testing, healthcare information technology
and diagnostic products businesses. On April 19, 2006, we decided to
discontinue the operations of a test kit manufacturing subsidiary, NID. During
the third quarter of 2006, we completed the wind down of NID. Therefore, the
operations of NID are classified as discontinued operations for all periods
presented. Our business segment information is disclosed in Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year
Ended December 31, 2009

Continuing
Operations

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflect lower revenues, compared to the
prior year, which has served to reduce income from continuing operations below
the prior year level. Actions we have taken to adjust our cost structure,
reduced costs for performance-based compensation, improved experience
associated with professional liability claims and continued progress in
reducing bad debt expense have served to partially mitigate the impact to
earnings from lower revenues. Lower outstanding share counts, resulting from
share repurchases, contributed $0.23 to the earnings per share improvement.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2010 include $27.0 million of pre-tax charges,
or $0.09 per share, principally associated with workforce reductions in the
first and fourth quarters. Of these costs, $6.4 million and $20.6 million,
respectively, were included in cost of services and selling, general and
administrative expenses. Results for the year ended December 31, 2010 also
include a $9.6 million fourth quarter pre-tax charge, or $0.03 per share,
associated with the settlement of employee litigation and a benefit of $0.12
per share, primarily associated with the favorable resolution of certain tax
contingencies. In addition, we estimate that the impact of severe weather in
the first quarter of 2010 adversely affected the full year comparison of
operating income to the prior year by $14.3 million, or $0.05 per share.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2009 include pre-tax charges of $20.4 million,
or $0.07 per share, associated with the early extinguishment of debt and $7.0
million, or $0.02 per share, associated with the write-down of an investment.
These charges were offset by a $15.5 million gain, or $0.05 per share,
associated with an insurance settlement for storm-related losses and a benefit
of $0.04 per share resulting from certain discrete tax benefits.

Net
Revenues

The
decrease in net revenues from the prior year was principally related to lower
revenues from our clinical testing business. For the year ended December 31,
2010, revenues from our clinical testing business, which accounts for over 90%
of our net revenues, were 1.3% below the prior year level.

Clinical
testing volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased 1.0%. We
believe that clinical testing volume was adversely affected by a general
slowdown in physician office visits compared to the prior year, and severe
weather in the first quarter of 2010. Published survey data estimates that
physician office visits declined approximately 5% in 2010 compared to 2009.

Revenue
per requisition decreased 0.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenue
per requisition benefitted from an increased mix of gene-based and esoteric
testing and an increase in the number of tests ordered per requisition.
Offsetting these benefits were a 1.9% Medicare fee schedule decrease, which
went into effect on January 1, 2010 and served to reduce revenue per
requisition by 0.4%; business and payer mix changes, including an increase in
lower priced drugs-of-abuse testing and a decrease in higher priced anatomic
pathology testing; and pricing changes in connection with several large
contract extensions entered into in 2009 and in the first half of 2010.


Our businesses other than
clinical laboratory testing accounted for approximately 9% of our net revenues
in 2010 and 2009. These businesses contain most of our international operations
and include our risk assessment services, clinical trials testing, healthcare
information technology, and diagnostic products businesses. For the year ended
December 31, 2010, aggregate revenues for these businesses approximated the
prior year level.

Operating Costs and Expenses

Total
Operating Costs and Expenses

Lower
revenues in our clinical testing business, including the impact of severe
weather in the first quarter of 2010, and charges associated with actions we
have taken to adjust our cost structure, partially offset by reduced costs for
performance-based compensation, improved experience associated with
professional liability claims and continued progress in reducing bad debt
expense, served to increase total operating costs as a percentage of net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. During the year ended December
31, 2010, we recorded $27.0 million of pre-tax charges, principally associated
with workforce reductions, of which $6.4 million was recorded in cost of
services and $20.6 million was recorded in selling, general and administrative
expenses. Operating costs for the year ended December 31, 2010 also included a
$9.6 million fourth quarter charge associated with the settlement of employee
litigation.

Operating
costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a $15.5 million gain
related to an insurance settlement for storm related losses, which served to
decrease total operating costs as a percentage of net revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2009.

Also, year-over-year
comparisons for the year ended December 31, 2010 were favorably impacted by
$2.7 million associated with gains and losses on investments in our
supplemental deferred compensation plans. The impact can fluctuate
significantly from year to year based on investment performance. Under our
supplemental deferred compensation plans, employee compensation deferrals,
together with Company matching contributions, are invested in a variety of
investments held in trusts. Gains and losses associated with the investments
are recorded in earnings within other income (expense), net. A corresponding
and offsetting adjustment is also recorded to the deferred compensation
obligation to reflect investment gains and losses earned by employees. Such
adjustments to the deferred compensation obligation are recorded in earnings,
principally within selling, general and administrative expenses, and offset the
amount of investment gains and losses recorded in other income (expense), net.
Results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 included increases in
operating costs of $5.7 and $8.4 million, respectively, representing increases
in the deferred compensation obligation to reflect investment gains earned by
employees participating in our deferred compensation plans.

Cost of Services

Cost
of services includes the costs of obtaining, transporting and testing
specimens. For the year ended December 31, 2010, cost of services increased, as
a percentage of revenue, primarily as a result of lower revenues in our
clinical testing business, including the impact of severe weather in the first
quarter of 2010, and charges associated with workforce reductions in response
to lower testing volume, partially offset by actions taken to reduce our cost
structure, reduced performance-based compensation and improved experience
associated with professional liability claims.


Selling,
General and Administrative Expenses

Selling,
general and administrative expenses include the costs of the sales force,
billing operations, bad debt expense, and general management and administrative
support. For the year ended December 31, 2010, selling, general and
administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of revenue from prior year
primarily as a result of reduced bad debt expense. In addition, activities in
2010 to adjust our cost structure in response to lower testing volume and
reduced performance-based compensation, partially offset by charges principally
associated with workforce reductions, reduced selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues. Continued progress in our
billing and collection processes has resulted in improvements in bad debt and
the cost of our billing operation.

Other Operating Expense (Income), net

Other
operating expense (income), net represents miscellaneous income and expense
items related to operating activities and for the years ended December 31, 2010
and 2009, consisted of the following:

Operating Income

Operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased as a percentage of net
revenues from the prior year, primarily as a result of the impact of lower
revenues in our clinical testing business, including the estimated impact of
severe weather in the first quarter of 2010, charges associated with workforce
reductions and employee litigation, partially offset by actions taken to adjust
our cost structure, reduced cost of performance-based compensation, improved
experience associated with professional liability claims and lower bad debt
expense. The estimated impact of severe weather in the first quarter of 2010,
combined with charges associated with actions we have taken to adjust our cost
structure, and the settlement of employee litigation adversely impacted the
year-over-year change in operating income as a percentage of net revenues by
0.7% compared to the prior year. In addition, the year-over-year change in
operating income as a percentage of net revenues was also adversely impacted by
0.2% associated with a $15.5 million gain recorded in 2009 related to an
insurance settlement for storm-related losses.

Interest
Expense, net

Interest
expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased from the prior year
primarily due to higher average outstanding debt in 2010 compared to the prior
year.


Other Income (Expense), net

Other
income (expense), net represents miscellaneous income and expense items related
to non-operating activities, such as gains and losses associated with
investments and other non-operating assets, and losses on the early
extinguishment of debt. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, other
income (expense), net consisted of the following:

Income Tax Expense

The
decrease in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared
    to the prior year was primarily due to a reduction in income from continuing
operations before income taxes of $43.6 million and a decrease in the effective
income tax rate. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31,
2010 decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to the favorable
resolution of certain tax contingencies. Results for the year ended December
31, 2010 included $22.1 million of income tax benefits, primarily associated
with the favorable resolution of certain tax contingencies. Results for the
year ended December 31, 2009 included $7.0 million of income tax benefits,
primarily associated with certain discrete tax benefits.

Discontinued Operations

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, for the year ended December 31,
2010 was $1.8 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, compared to $1.2 million, or
$0.01 per diluted share, in 2009. On April 15, 2009, the Company entered into a
final settlement agreement with the federal government and paid $308 million,
which had been previously reserved in connection with the final settlement. See
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Year Ended
December 31, 2009 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2008

Continuing Operations

The
increase in income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31,
2009 from the prior year was principally driven by improved operating
performance and lower interest expense. Results for the year ended December 31,
2009 include pre-tax charges of $20.4 million, or $0.07 per share, associated
with the early extinguishment of debt and $7.0 million, or $0.02 per share,
associated with the write-down of an investment. These charges were offset by a
$15.5 million gain, or $0.05 per share, associated with an insurance settlement
for storm-


related
losses and a benefit of $0.04 per share resulting from certain discrete tax
benefits.

Results
for the year ended December 31, 2008 include a third quarter charge of $8.9
million, or $0.03 per share, associated with the write-down of an equity
investment and pre-tax charges of $16.2 million, or $0.05 per share, primarily
associated with workforce reductions. These charges were offset by favorable
resolutions of various tax contingencies in 2008, which increased earnings per
share by $0.08. In addition, we estimate the impact of hurricanes in the third
quarter of 2008 adversely impacted operating income for the year ended December
31, 2008 by approximately $8 million or $0.02 per share.

Net Revenues

Net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 grew by 2.8% over the prior year
level to $7.5 billion. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue growth
for the year ended December 31, 2009 by 0.4%.

For
2009, revenues of our clinical testing business, which accounts for over 90% of
our net revenues, grew 3.2% above the prior year level. Declines in
pre-employment drug testing, which is part of our clinical testing business,
reduced consolidated revenues by 0.7%.

Clinical
testing volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased 0.7% for the
year ended December 31, 2009. Pre-employment drug testing volume, which
accounted for approximately 5% of our total clinical testing volume in 2009,
declined approximately 22% and reduced consolidated volume by 1.5%. We believe
the volume decrease in pre-employment drug testing continued to be principally
due to reduced hiring by employers served by this business. Our decision to
exit certain laboratory management agreements that did not meet our
profitability thresholds also reduced volume by 0.4%.

Revenue
per requisition increased 3.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, with the
increase primarily driven by a positive test mix and a 4.5% increase in the
Medicare laboratory fee schedule which went into effect January 1, 2009 and contributed
approximately a one-half percent increase in revenue per requisition.

Our
businesses other than clinical testing accounted for approximately 8% of our
net revenues in 2009. These businesses include our risk assessment services,
clinical trials testing, healthcare information technology and diagnostic
products businesses. These businesses contain most of our international
operations and, in the aggregate, reported revenues for 2009 were comparable
    to the prior year level, despite the impact of foreign exchange which reduced
    the combined revenues of these businesses by approximately 4%.

Operating Costs and Expenses

Total Operating Costs and Expenses

Total
operating costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased
from the prior year and decreased as a percentage of net revenues due to
actions we have taken to improve our operating efficiency and reduce the size
of our workforce, along with discrete cost containment actions taken during
2009 which have enabled us to realize modest cost increases on increased net
revenues. These efforts, coupled with higher revenue per requisition, served
    to reduce operating costs and expenses as a percentage of net revenues. In
addition, results for the year ended December 31, 2009 include a $15.5 million
second quarter gain related to an insurance settlement for storm-related losses
while results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include fourth quarter
charges of $16.2 million, primarily associated with workforce reductions ($7.7
million included in cost of services and $8.5 million included in selling,


general and
administrative).

Also,
year-over-year comparisons were adversely impacted by approximately $18 million
associated with gains and losses on investments in our supplemental deferred
compensation plans. The impact can fluctuate significantly from year to year
based on investment performance. Under our supplemental deferred compensation
plans, employee compensation deferrals, together with Company matching
contributions, are invested in a variety of participant-directed investments
held in trusts. Gains and losses associated with the investments are recorded
in earnings within other income (expense), net. A corresponding and offsetting
adjustment is also recorded to the deferred compensation obligation to reflect
investment gains and losses earned by employees. Such adjustments to the
deferred compensation obligation are recorded in earnings, principally within
selling, general and administrative expenses, and offset the amount of
investment gains and losses recorded in other income (expense), net. Results
for 2009 included an increase in operating costs of $8.4 million, representing
an increase in the deferred compensation obligation to reflect investment gains
earned by employees participating in our deferred compensation plans. Results
for 2008 included a reduction in operating costs of $9.9 million, representing
a decrease in the deferred compensation obligation to reflect investment losses
incurred by employees participating in our deferred compensation plans.

Cost of Services

Cost
of services decreased as a percentage of net revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year due to actions taken to reduce our
cost structure and higher revenue per requisition.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to prior year primarily due to
actions taken to reduce our cost structure and higher revenue per requisition.
In addition, year-over-year comparisons of selling, general and administrative
expenses as a percentage of net revenues, were adversely impacted by 0.2%
associated with investment gains and losses earned by employees on assets held
in trust under our supplemental deferred compensation plans discussed earlier.
Days sales outstanding decreased to 43 days at December 31, 2009 compared to 44
days at December 31, 2008. Continued progress in our billing and collection
processes has resulted in stable bad debt and improvements in days sales
outstanding and the cost of our billing operations.

Other Operating Expense (Income), net

Other
operating expense (income), net represents miscellaneous income and expense
items related to operating activities and for the years ended December 31, 2009
and 2008, consisted of the following:

Operating Income

The
improvement in operating income, as a percentage of net revenues, for the year
ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year, was primarily due to higher
revenue per requisition and progress we are making with our cost reduction
program, as well as discrete cost containment actions we took during 2009.
Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 also includes a $15.5
million gain associated with an insurance settlement for storm-related losses,
which contributed 0.2% to the improvement. The operating income percentage for
the year ended December 31, 2009 also reflects the impact of the various items
which served to reduce cost of services and selling, general and administrative
expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Results for the year ended December
31, 2008


include a
charge of $16.2 million, primarily associated with workforce reductions, which
reduced operating income, as a percentage of net revenues, by 0.2%. In
addition, year-over-year comparisons were adversely impacted by approximately
$18 million, or 0.2%, associated with investment gains and losses earned by
employees on assets held in trust under our supplemental deferred compensation
plans.

Interest
Expense, net

The
decrease in interest expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2009,
compared to the prior year, was primarily due to lower interest rates on our
variable-interest rate debt.

Other Income (Expense), net

Other
income (expense), net represents miscellaneous income and expense items related
to non-operating activities, such as gains and losses associated with
investments and other non-operating assets, and losses on the early
extinguishment of debt. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, other
income (expense), net consisted of the following:

Income Tax Expense

The
increase in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared
    to the prior year was primarily due to an increase in income from continuing
operations before income taxes of $177.3 million and an increase in the
effective income tax rate. The effective income tax rate for the year ended
December 31, 2009 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to the
favorable resolution of certain tax contingencies reflected in the effective
income tax rate for 2008. Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 included
$7.0 million of income tax benefits, primarily associated with certain discrete
tax benefits. Results for the year ended December 31, 2008 included $16.5
million of income tax benefits, primarily associated with the favorable
resolution of certain tax contingencies.

Discontinued Operations

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, for the year ended December 31,
2009 was $1.2 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, compared to $51 million, or
$0.26 per diluted share, in 2008. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company
and NID reached an agreement in principle to settle the previously disclosed
federal government investigation of NID, a test kit subsidiary voluntarily
closed in 2006. As a result of the agreement in principle, during 2008, the
Company recorded charges of $75 million in discontinued operations to increase
its reserves for the settlement and related matters. On April 15, 2009, the
Company entered into a final settlement agreement with the federal government
and paid $308 million, which had been previously reserved in connection with
the final settlement. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further details.


Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We
address our exposure to market risks, principally the market risk of changes in
interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that includes
the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not hold or issue derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes. We believe that our exposures to
foreign exchange impacts and changes in commodities prices are not material to
our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. See Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of our
financial instruments and hedging activities.

At
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of our debt was estimated at
approximately $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, using quoted market
prices and yields for the same or similar types of borrowings, taking into
account the underlying terms of the debt instruments. At December 31, 2010 and
2009, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of the debt by $80
million and $151 million, respectively. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest
rates (representing 45 basis points and 46 basis points at December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively) would potentially reduce the estimated fair value of
our debt by approximately $89 million and $96 million at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively.

Borrowings
under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our secured receivables
credit facility and our term loan due May 2012 are subject to variable interest
rates. Interest on our secured receivables credit facility is based on rates
that are intended to approximate commercial paper rates for highly-rated
issuers. Interest rates on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and
term loan due May 2012 are subject to a pricing schedule that can fluctuate
based on changes in our credit ratings. As such, our borrowing cost under these
credit arrangements will be subject to both fluctuations in interest rates and
changes in our credit ratings. As of December 31, 2010, the borrowing rates
under these credit facilities were: for our secured receivables credit
facility, 1.16%; for our senior unsecured credit facility, LIBOR plus 0.40%;
and for our term loan due May 2012, LIBOR plus 0.40%. At December 31, 2010, the
weighted average LIBOR was 0.26%. At December 31, 2010, there was $742 million
outstanding under our term loan due May 2012 and no borrowings outstanding
under our $750 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility or our $525
million secured receivables credit facility.

We
seek to mitigate the variability in cash outflows that result from changes in
interest rates by maintaining a balanced mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate
debt obligations. In order to achieve this objective, we have entered into
interest rate swaps. Interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of
payments without the exchange of underlying principal or notional amounts. Net
settlements are recognized as an adjustment to interest expense.

In
November 2009, the Company entered into various fixed-to-variable interest rate
swap agreements that effectively convert a portion of our 4.75% Senior Notes
due 2020 to variable-interest rate debt based on LIBOR plus 1.33%. At December
31, 2010, the interest rate swap agreements which expire in January 2020, have
a notional amount totaling $350 million. The fixed-to-variable interest rate
swap agreements are accounted for as fair value hedges of a portion of our
outstanding 4.75% Senior Notes due 2020. Based on our net exposure to interest
rate changes, a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on our variable rate
indebtedness (representing 3 basis points) would impact annual interest expense
by approximately $0.3 million, assuming no changes to the debt outstanding at
December 31, 2010.

The
fair value of the fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements at December
31, 2010 was an asset of $10.5 million. A hypothetical 10% change in interest
rates (representing 30 basis points) would potentially change the fair value
of the asset of these instruments by approximately $9 million.

For
details regarding our outstanding debt and our financial instruments, see Notes
10 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Risk
Associated with Investment Portfolio

Our
investment portfolio includes equity investments in publicly held companies
that are classified as available-for-sale securities and other strategic equity
holdings in privately held companies. These securities are exposed to price
fluctuations and are generally concentrated in the life sciences industry. The
carrying values of our available-for-sale equity securities and privately held
securities were $17.6 million at December 31, 2010.

We
regularly evaluate the fair value measurements of our equity investments to
determine if losses in value are other than temporary and if an impairment loss
has been incurred. The evaluation considers if the security has the ability to
recover and, if so, the estimated recovery period. Other factors that are
considered in this evaluation include the amount of the other-than-temporary
decline and its duration, the issuer’s financial condition and short-term
prospects, and whether the market decline was caused by overall economic
conditions or conditions specific to the individual security.


We
do not hedge our equity price risk. The impact of an adverse movement in equity
prices on our holdings in privately held companies cannot be easily quantified,
as our ability to realize returns on investments depends on, among other
things, the enterprises’ ability to raise additional capital or derive cash
inflows from continuing operations or through liquidity events such as initial
public offerings, mergers or private sales.

Liquidity
and Capital Resources

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents at December 31, 2010 totaled $449 million compared to $534
million at December 31, 2009. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and
highly liquid short-term investments. For the year ended December 31, 2010,
cash flows from operating activities of $1.1 billion, together with cash
on-hand, were used to fund investing and financing activities of $217 million
and $986 million, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2009
totaled $534 million, compared to $254 million at December 31, 2008. Cash flows
from operating activities in 2009 of $1.0 billion were used to fund investing
and financing activities of $196 million and $521 million, respectively.

Cash
Flows from Operating Activities

Net
cash provided by operating activities for 2010 was $1.1 billion compared to
$1.0 billion in 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash flows from
operating activities included payments primarily made in the second quarter of
2009 totaling $314 million in connection with the NID settlement (see Note 16
to the Consolidated Financial Statements), or $208 million net of an associated
reduction in estimated tax payments. After giving consideration to the net
settlement payments, underlying cash flows from operating activities for the
year ended December 31, 2010 decreased in comparison to the prior year level.
This decrease was primarily driven by the timing of payments for variable
compensation and accrued expenses. Days sales outstanding, a measure of billing
and collection efficiency, increased to 44 days at December 31, 2010 compared
to 43 days at December 31, 2009. This increase is primarily due to the
temporary suspension of billing to MediCal, the California Medicaid program.
See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion
of MediCal.

Net
cash provided by operating activities for 2009 was $1.0 billion compared to
$1.1 billion in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash flows from
operating activities includes payments primarily made in the second quarter of
2009 totaling $314 million in connection with the NID settlement, or $208
million net of an associated reduction in estimated tax payments. After giving
consideration to the net settlement payments, underlying cash flows from
operating activities exceeded the prior year level, primarily driven by higher
earnings in 2009.

Cash
Flows from Investing Activities

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2010 was $217 million, consisting
principally of capital expenditures of $205 million.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2009 was $196 million, consisting
principally of capital expenditures of $167 million. In addition, we completed
several small acquisitions for a total of $39 million, which was partially
offset by $21 million related to the receipt of a payment from an escrow fund
established at the time of an acquisition in 2007.

Cash
Flows from Financing Activities

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2010 was $986 million, consisting
primarily of debt repayment of $169 million, purchases of treasury stock
totaling $750 million, dividend payments of $71 million and distributions to
noncontrolling interests of $37 million, partially offset by $49 million in
proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including related tax benefits.

In
December 2010, we extended our existing receivables securitization facility.
The secured receivables credit facility continues to be supported by back-up
facilities provided on a committed basis by two banks: (a) $275 million, which
matures on December 9, 2011 and (b) $250 million, which also matures on
December 9, 2011. Interest on the secured receivables credit facility is based
on rates that are intended to approximate commercial paper rates for
highly-rated issuers. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility
at December 31, 2010.

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2009 was $521 million, consisting
primarily of purchases of treasury stock totaling $500 million, dividend
payments of $75 million and $10.5 million in payments to settle certain
forward-starting interest rate swap agreements, partially offset by $93 million
in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including related tax benefits,
and net increases in debt of $27 million. The net increase in debt consists of
$1.25 billion of borrowings and $1.22 billion of repayments.


During
2009, borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility totaled $510
million and were used primarily to fund the NID settlement payments totaling
$314 million and $150 million to fund the retirement of debt in connection with
our debt tender offer in June 2009. In addition, we completed a $750 million
senior notes offering in November 2009 (the “2009 Senior Notes”). We issued the
notes principally to repay certain debt maturing through 2011 and refinance it
over a longer term. The 2009 Senior Notes were sold in two tranches: (a) $500
million of 4.75% senior notes due 2020 issued at a discount of $7.5 million;
and $250 million of 5.75% senior notes due 2040, issued at a discount of $6.9
million. We used the net proceeds from the 2009 Senior Notes offering to fund
the retirement of $150 million of debt in connection with our debt tender offer
in November 2009, and the repayment of $100 million outstanding under our
secured receivables credit facility and $350 million outstanding under our term
loan due May 2012. The 2009 Senior Notes are further described in Note 10 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt
repayments of $1.22 billion primarily consisted of $510 million on our secured
receivables credit facility, $350 million on our term loan due May 2012 and
$350 million of repayments in connection with our debt tender offers in June
2009 and November 2009.

In
connection with our June 2009 debt tender offer, we repaid $174 million of
aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 5.125% senior notes due 2010
and $26 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 7.50%
senior notes due 2011. Total cash payments of $206 million, including
approximately $6 million related to premiums and other costs incurred to
purchase the notes, were funded with cash on-hand and $150 million of
borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility.

In
connection with our November 2009 debt tender offer, we repaid $61 million of
aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 5.125% senior notes due 2010
and $89 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 7.50%
senior notes due 2011. Total cash payments of $162 million, including
approximately $12 million related to premiums and other costs incurred to
purchase the notes, were funded with a portion of the net proceeds from our
2009 Senior Notes offering.

Dividends

During
each of the quarters of 2010 and 2009, our Board of Directors declared a
quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share. We expect to fund future
dividend payments with cash flows from operations, and do not expect the
dividend to have a material impact on our ability to finance future growth.

Share
Repurchases

For
the year ended December 31, 2010, we repurchased 14.7 million shares of our
common stock at an average price of $51.04 per share for $750 million,
including 4.5 million shares purchased in the first quarter at an average price
of $56.21 per share for $251 million under an accelerated share repurchase
transaction with a bank. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased
10 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $49.83 per share
for $500 million, including 4.5 million shares repurchased from SB Holdings
Capital Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. (“GSK”), at an
average price of $44.33 per share for $200 million. For the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, we reissued 2.1 million shares and 3.0 million
shares, respectively, for employee benefit plans. Since the inception of our
share repurchase program in May 2003, we have repurchased approximately 74
million shares of our common stock at an average price of $47.13 for $3.5
billion. At December 31, 2010, $250 million of our share repurchase
authorization remained available. In January 2011, our Board of Directors
authorized $750 million of additional share repurchases, bringing the total
available under share repurchase authorizations, which have no set expiration
or termination date, to $1 billion.

On
January 31, 2011, we agreed to repurchase 15.4 million shares of our common
stock from SB Holdings Capital Inc., an affiliate of GSK, at a purchase price
of $54.30 per share for $835 million (the “Repurchase”). We funded the
Repurchase, which closed on February 4, 2011, with $260 million of cash on-hand,
$500 million of borrowings under our secured receivables credit facility and
$75 million of borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility.
Subsequent to the Repurchase, our remaining share repurchase authorization
totaled $165 million.


Contractual
Obligations and Commitments

The
following table summarizes certain of our contractual obligations as of
December 31, 2010.

Interest
payments on our long-term debt have been calculated after giving effect to our
interest rate swap agreements, using the interest rates as of December 31, 2010
applied to the December 31, 2010 balances, which are assumed to remain
outstanding through their maturity dates.

A
full description of the terms of our indebtedness and related debt service
requirements and our future payments under certain of our contractual
obligations is contained in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A
full discussion and analysis regarding our minimum rental commitments under
noncancelable operating leases and noncancelable commitments to purchase
product or services at December 31, 2010 is contained in Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

As
of December 31, 2010, our total liabilities associated with unrecognized tax
benefits were approximately $152 million, which were excluded from the table
above. We believe it is reasonably possible that these liabilities may decrease
by up to $14 million within the next twelve months, primarily as a result of
the expiration of statutes of limitations, settlements and/or the conclusion
    of tax examinations on certain tax positions. For the remainder, we cannot
    make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of the future payments of
    these liabilities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information regarding our contingent tax liability reserves.

Our
credit agreements and our term loan due May 2012 contain various covenants and
conditions, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, that could
impact our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness. As of
December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the various financial covenants
included in our credit agreements and we do not expect these covenants to
adversely impact our ability to execute our growth strategy or conduct normal
business operations.

Unconsolidated
Joint Ventures

We
have investments in unconsolidated joint ventures in Phoenix, Arizona;
Indianapolis, Indiana; and Dayton, Ohio, which are accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. We believe that our transactions with our joint
ventures are conducted at arm’s length, reflecting current market conditions
and pricing. Total net revenues of our unconsolidated joint ventures equal less
than 6% of our consolidated net revenues. Total assets associated with our
unconsolidated joint ventures are less than 2% of our consolidated total
assets. We have no material unconditional obligations or guarantees to, or in
support of, our unconsolidated joint ventures and their operations.

Requirements
and Capital Resources

We
estimate that we will invest approximately $220 million during 2011 for capital
expenditures, including assets under capitalized leases, to support and expand
our existing operations, principally related to investments in information
technology, equipment, and facility upgrades.

As
of December 31, 2010, $1.3 billion of borrowing capacity was available under
our existing credit facilities, consisting of $525 million available under our
secured receivables credit facility and $750 million available under our senior
unsecured revolving credit facility. After funding the Repurchase, which closed
on February 4, 2011, $700 million of borrowing capacity was available under our
existing credit facilities, consisting of $25 million available under our
secured receivables credit facility and $675 million available under our senior
unsecured revolving credit


facility.

We
believe the banks participating in our various credit facilities are
predominantly highly-rated banks, and that the borrowing capacity under the
credit facilities described above is currently available to us. Should one or
several banks no longer participate in either of our credit facilities, we
would not expect it to impact our ability to fund operations. We expect that we
will be able to replace our existing secured receivable credit facility and our
senior unsecured revolving credit facility with alternative arrangements prior
to their expiration.

We
believe that cash and cash equivalents on-hand and cash from operations,
together with our borrowing capacity under our credit facilities, will provide
sufficient financial flexibility to meet seasonal working capital requirements
and to fund capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other
obligations, cash dividends on common shares, share repurchases and additional
growth opportunities for the foreseeable future. We believe that our credit
profile should provide us with access to additional financing, if necessary, to
fund growth opportunities that cannot be funded from existing sources.

Outlook

As
discussed in the Overview, despite the continued consolidation among healthcare
insurers, and their continued efforts to reduce reimbursement for providers of
diagnostic testing, and the general economic conditions, we believe that the
underlying fundamentals of the diagnostic testing industry will continue to
improve and that over the long-term the industry will continue to grow. As the
world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, we
believe we are well positioned to benefit from the growth expected in our
industry.

We
believe our focus on delivering a superior patient experience and Six Sigma
quality as well as the investments we are making in sales, service, science and
information technology will further differentiate us over the long-term and
strengthen our industry leadership position. In addition, we plan to leverage
our knowledge and expertise in diagnostic testing to further expand into
international markets and point-of-care testing.

Our
strong cash generation, exisiting credit facilities and access to additional
financing position us well to take advantage of these growth opportunities.

Inflation

We
believe that inflation generally does not have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition because the majority of our
contracts are short term.

Impact of New Accounting Standards

In
October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an
amendment to the accounting standards related to the accounting for revenue in
arrangements with multiple deliverables, and an amendment to the accounting
standards related to certain revenue arrangements that include software
elements. In January 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting
standards related to the disclosures about an entity’s use of fair value
measurements. In August 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting
standards related to the accounting for insurance recoveries, and an amendment
to the accounting standards related to the financial statement disclosure of
the amount of charity care provided by a healthcare entity. In December 2010,
the FASB issued amendments to the accounting standards related to the testing
of goodwill for impairment and the disclosure requirements for business
combinations. The impact of these accounting standards is discussed in Note 2
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


R

EPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING

The
management of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management
assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on criteria for effective internal
control over financial reporting described in

“Internal
Control – Integrated Framework”

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment,
management has determined that the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2010 is effective.

The
Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures
that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance
with authorization of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on
the consolidated financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
financial statements included in this annual report, audited the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and issued
their audit report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
included therein.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing
under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries at December 31,
2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these
financial statements and the financial statement schedule, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the
financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

F-1

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009

(in thousands, except per share data)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-2

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010, 2009 AND 2008

(in thousands, except per share data)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-3

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010, 2009 AND 2008

(in thousands)

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-4

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

C

ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010, 2009 AND 2008

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-5

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

N

OTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated and its subsidiaries (“Quest Diagnostics” or the
“Company”) is the world’s leading provider of diagnostic testing, information
and services, providing insights that enable patients, physicians and others to
make better healthcare decisions. Quest Diagnostics offers patients and
physicians the broadest access to diagnostic laboratory services through the
Company’s nationwide network of laboratories and patient service centers. The
Company provides interpretive consultation through the largest medical and
scientific staff in the industry, with approximately 900 M.D.s and Ph.D.s,
primarily located in the United States. Quest Diagnostics is the leading
provider of clinical testing, including gene-based and esoteric testing,
anatomic pathology services and testing for drugs-of-abuse in the United States,
and the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance
industry in North America. The Company is also a leading provider of testing
for clinical trials. The Company’s diagnostics products business manufactures
and markets diagnostic test kits and specialized point-of-care testing. Quest
Diagnostics empowers healthcare organizations and clinicians with robust
information technology solutions that can improve patient care and medical
practice.

During
2010, Quest Diagnostics processed approximately 146 million requisitions
through its extensive network of laboratories in virtually every major
metropolitan area throughout the United States.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles
of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities
controlled by the Company through its direct or indirect ownership of a
majority voting interest and the accounts of any variable interest entities
where the Company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the
variable interest entity’s activities, or entitled to receive a majority of the
entity’s residual returns or both. The Company assesses the requirements
related to the consolidation of variable interest entities (“VIEs”), including
a qualitative assessment of power and economics that considers which entity has
the power to direct the activities that “most significantly impact” the VIE’s
economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses of, or the right
to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to, the VIE. The
Company’s relationships with variable interest entities were not material at
both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Investments in entities which the Company does
not control, but in which it has a substantial ownership interest (generally
between 20% and 49%) and can exercise significant influence, are accounted for
using the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
Company’s investments in affiliates accounted for under the equity method of
accounting totaled $44.9 million and $46.3 million, respectively. The Company’s
share of equity earnings from investments in affiliates, accounted for under
the equity method, totaled $29.6 million, $33.2 million and $29.7 million,
respectively, for 2010, 2009 and 2008. All significant intercompany accounts
and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

Basis
of Presentation

During
the third quarter of 2006, the Company completed its wind-down of NID, a test
kit manufacturing subsidiary, and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. The accompanying consolidated statements of operations
and related disclosures have been prepared to report the results of NID as
discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 16 for a further
discussion of discontinued operations.

Certain
reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts in the consolidated
statements of cash flows to conform to the current year’s presentation.

Use
of Estimates

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the Unites States (“GAAP”) requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

F-6

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Revenue
Recognition

The
Company primarily recognizes revenue for services rendered upon completion of
the testing process. Billings for services reimbursed by third-party payers,
including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for
differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts from such payers.
Adjustments to the allowances, based on actual receipts from the third-party
payers, are recorded upon settlement. Approximately 18% of the Company’s
consolidated net revenues were generated by billings to the Medicare and
Medicaid programs in each of the years ending December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Under capitated arrangements with healthcare insurers, the Company recognizes
revenue based on a predetermined monthly reimbursement rate for each member of
an insurer’s health plan regardless of the number or cost of services provided
by the Company. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 4%, 4%, and 5%,
respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net revenues were generated under
capitated arrangements.

Revenues
from the Company’s risk assessment services, clinical trials testing and
diagnostics products businesses are recognized when persuasive evidence of a
final agreement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered;
the price of the product or service is fixed or determinable; and collectibility
from the customer is reasonably assured. The Company’s healthcare information
technology business primarily uses the percentage-of-completion method of
contract accounting and recognizes revenue as performance takes place over an
extended period of time.

Taxes
on Income

The
Company uses the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using tax rates in effect
for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation
allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period when the change is enacted.

Earnings
Per Share

The
Company’s unvested restricted common stock and unvested restricted stock units
that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities
and, therefore, are included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings
per share using the two-class method for all periods presented. Basic earnings
per common share is calculated by dividing net income, adjusted for earnings
allocated to participating securities, by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by dividing
net income, adjusted for earnings allocated to participating securities, by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding after giving effect to all
potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period. Potentially
dilutive common shares include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options
and performance share units granted under the Company’s Amended and Restated
Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan (“ELTIP”) and its Amended and Restated
Non-Employee Director Long-Term Incentive Plan (“DLTIP”).

Stock-Based
Compensation

The
Company records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of the
estimated impact of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes
stock-based compensation cost only
for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over their
requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual
grants. The cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a change in the
estimated forfeiture rate is recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the
period of the revision. The terms of the Company’s performance share unit
grants allow the recipients of such awards to earn a variable number of shares
based on the achievement of the performance goals specified in the awards. For
performance share unit awards, the actual amount of any stock award earned is
based on the compound annual growth rate of the Company’s earnings per share
from continuing operations over a three-year period as measured in accordance
with the ELTIP. Stock-based compensation expense associated with performance
share units is recognized based on management’s best estimates of the
achievement of the performance goals specified in such awards and the resulting
number of shares that will be earned. The cumulative effect on current and
prior

F-7

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

periods of a
change in the estimated number of performance share units expected to be earned
is recognized as compensation cost in earnings in the period of the revision.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense related to the
Company’s Amended Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) based on the 15%
discount at purchase. See Note 13 for a further discussion of stock-based
compensation.

Fair
Value Measurements

The
Company determines fair value measurements used in its consolidated financial
statements based upon the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants exclusive of any transaction costs, as determined by either the
principal market or the most advantageous market. The principal market is the
market with the greatest level of activity and volume for the asset or
liability. Absent a principal market to measure fair value, the Company has
used the most advantageous market, which is the market in which the Company
would receive the highest selling price for the asset or pay the lowest price
to settle the liability, after considering transaction costs. However, when
using the most advantageous market, transaction costs are only considered to
determine which market is the most advantageous and these costs are then
excluded when applying a fair value measurement.

Inputs
used in the valuation techniques to derive fair values are classified based on
a three-level hierarchy. The basis for fair value measurements for each level
within the hierarchy is described below with Level 1 having the highest
priority and Level 3 having the lowest.

Foreign
Currency

The
Company predominately uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. The
functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries is the applicable
local currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollars are
translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates as of the end of the reporting
period. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates
prevailing during the year. The translation adjustments are recorded as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders’
equity. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are included within
other operating expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of
operations. Transaction gains and losses have not been material. For a
discussion of the Company’s use of derivative financial instruments to manage
its exposure for changes in foreign currency rates refer to the caption
entitled “

Derivative
Financial Instruments – Foreign Currency Risk

” below.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents include all highly-liquid investments with original
maturities, at the time acquired by the Company, of three months or less.

Concentration
of Credit Risk

Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
risk are principally cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts
receivable and derivative financial instruments. The Company’s policy is to
place its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in highly-rated
financial instruments and institutions. Concentration of credit risk with
respect to accounts receivable is mitigated by the diversity of the Company’s
payers and their dispersion across many different geographic regions, and is
limited to certain payers who are large buyers of the Company’s services. To
reduce risk, the Company routinely assesses the financial strength of these
payers and, consequently, believes that its accounts receivable credit risk
exposure, with respect to these payers, is limited. While the Company has
receivables due from federal and state governmental agencies, the Company does
not

F-8

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

believe that
such receivables represent a credit risk since the related healthcare programs
are funded by federal and state governments, and payment is primarily dependent
on submitting appropriate documentation. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
receivables due from government payers under the Medicare and Medicaid programs
represent approximately 16% and 12%, respectively, of the Company’s
consolidated net accounts receivable. See Note 15 for a discussion regarding
certain amounts due from MediCal, the California Medicaid program. The portion
of the Company’s accounts receivable due from patients comprises the largest portion
of credit risk. At both December 31, 2010 and 2009, receivables due from
patients represent approximately 19% of the Company’s consolidated net accounts
receivable. The Company applies assumptions and judgments including historical
collection experience for assessing collectibility and determining allowances
for doubtful accounts for accounts receivable from patients.

Accounts
Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Accounts
receivable are reported at realizable value, net of allowances for doubtful
accounts, which is estimated and recorded in the period the related revenue is
recorded. The Company has a standardized approach to estimate and review the collectibility of
its receivables based on a number of factors, including the period they have
been outstanding. Historical collection and payer reimbursement experience is
an integral part of the estimation process related to allowances for doubtful
accounts. In addition, the Company regularly assesses the state of its billing
operations in order to identify issues which may impact the collectibility of
these receivables or reserve estimates. Revisions to the allowances for doubtful
accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense within
selling, general and administrative expenses. Receivables deemed to be
uncollectible are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts at the
time such receivables are written-off. Recoveries of receivables previously
written-off are recorded as credits to the allowance for doubtful accounts.

Inventories

Inventories,
which consist principally of testing supplies and reagents, are valued at the
lower of cost (first in, first out method) or market.

Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property,
plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Major renewals and improvements are
capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Costs
incurred for computer software developed or obtained for internal use are
capitalized for application development activities and expensed as incurred for
preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities. Capitalized
costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in
developing or obtaining internal-use software, payroll and payroll-related
costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to the
internal-use software project, and interest costs incurred, when material,
while developing internal-use software. Capitalization of such costs ceases
when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose.
Certain costs, such as maintenance and training, are expensed as incurred. The
Company capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active construction
period of major capital projects. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of
the underlying assets and is amortized over the expected useful lives of the
assets. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method
over expected useful asset lives as follows: buildings and improvements,
ranging from ten to thirty years; laboratory equipment and furniture and
fixtures, ranging from three to seven years; leasehold improvements, the lesser
of the useful life of the improvement or the remaining life of the building or
lease, as applicable; and computer software developed or obtained for internal
use, ranging from three to seven years.

Goodwill

Goodwill
arising from acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 represents the
cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of assets acquired,
including separately recognized intangible assets, less the fair value of
liabilities assumed in a business combination. On January 1, 2009, the Company
adopted a new accounting standard related to business combinations using the
acquisition method. Goodwill arising from acquisitions completed on or after
January 1, 2009 represents the excess of the fair value of the acquiree
(including the fair value of non-controlling interests) over the recognized
bases of the net identifiable assets acquired. The Company uses a
nonamortization approach to account for goodwill arising from acquisitions.
Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is periodically reviewed for impairment.

F-9

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Intangible
Assets

Intangible
assets are recognized at fair value, as an asset apart from goodwill if the
asset arises from contractual or other legal rights, or if it is separable.
Intangible assets, principally representing the cost of customer relationships,
customer lists and non-competition agreements acquired, are capitalized and amortized
on the straight-line method over their expected useful life, which generally
ranges from five to twenty years. Intangible assets with indefinite useful
lives, consisting principally of acquired tradenames, are not amortized, but
instead are periodically reviewed for impairment.

Recoverability
and Impairment of Goodwill

The
Company reviews goodwill and certain intangible assets periodically for
impairment and an impairment charge is recorded in the periods in which the
recorded carrying value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more than its
estimated fair value. The goodwill impairment test is performed annually, or
more frequently, in the case of other events that indicate a potential
impairment. The annual impairment test of goodwill was performed at the end of
each of the Company’s fiscal years and indicated that there was no impairment
of goodwill as of December 31, 2010 or 2009.

The
annual impairment test is a two-step process that begins with the estimation of
the fair value of the reporting unit. The first step screens for potential
impairment and the second step measures the amount of the impairment, if any.
Management’s estimate of fair value considers publicly available information
regarding the market capitalization of the Company as well as (i) the financial
projections and future prospects of the Company’s business, including its
growth opportunities and likely operational improvements, and (ii) comparable
sales prices, if available. As part of the first step to assess potential
impairment, management compares the estimate of fair value for the reporting
unit to the book value of the reporting unit. If the book value is greater than
the estimate of fair value, the Company would then proceed to the second step
to measure the impairment, if any. The second step compares the implied fair
value of goodwill with its carrying value. The implied fair value is determined
by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and
liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a
business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase
price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the
reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the
implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s
goodwill is greater than its implied fair value, an impairment loss will be
recognized in the amount of the excess. Management believes its estimation
methods are reasonable and reflective of common valuation practices.

On
a quarterly basis, management performs a review of the Company’s business to
determine if events or changes in circumstances have occurred which could have
a material adverse effect on the fair value of the Company and its goodwill. If
such events or changes in circumstances were deemed to have occurred, the
Company would perform an impairment test of goodwill as of the end of the
quarter, consistent with the annual impairment test, and record any noted
impairment loss.

Recoverability
and Impairment of Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets

The
Company reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets when events or
changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value of the
asset may not be recoverable. Evaluation of possible impairment is based on the
Company’s ability to recover the asset from the expected future pre-tax cash
flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations. If
the expected undiscounted pre-tax cash flows are less than the carrying amount
of such asset, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the
estimated fair value and carrying amount of the asset.

Investments

The
Company accounts for investments in trading and available-for-sale equity
securities, which are included in other assets in the consolidated balance
sheets at fair value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses for trading
securities are recorded currently in earnings as a component of non-operating
expenses within other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of
operations. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, for available-for-sale
securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) within stockholders’ equity.

F-10

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Recognized
gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are recorded in other income
(expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. Gains and losses
on securities sold are based on the average cost method.

The
Company periodically reviews its investments to determine whether a decline in
fair value below the cost basis is other than temporary. The primary factors
considered in the determination are: the length of time that the fair value of
the investment is below carrying value; the financial condition, operating
performance and near term prospects of the investee; and the Company’s intent
and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for
a recovery in fair value. If the decline in fair value is deemed to be other
than temporary, the cost basis of the security is written down to fair value.

Investments
at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following:

Investments
in available-for-sale equity securities consist of equity securities in public
corporations. Investments in trading equity securities represent
participant-directed investments of deferred employee compensation and related
Company matching contributions held in a trust pursuant to the Company’s
supplemental deferred compensation plan (see Note 13). The Company purchases life insurance policies,
with the Company named as beneficiary of the policies, for the purpose of
funding a non-qualified deferred compensation program. Changes in the cash
surrender value of the life insurance policies are based upon earnings and
changes in the value of the underlying investments. Other investments do
not have readily determinable fair values and consist of investments in
preferred and common shares of privately held companies and are accounted for
under the cost method.

As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had no gross unrealized losses from
available-for-sale equity securities. For the year ended December 31, 2009,
other income (expense), net within the consolidated statements of operations,
includes $7.8 million of charges principally associated with the write-down of
an investment accounted for under the cost method. For the year ended December
31, 2008, other income (expense), net includes $8.9 million of charges
associated with the write-down of available-for-sale equity securities. For the
years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, gains (losses) from trading
equity securities totaled $3.3 million, $6.0 million and $(9.9) million,
respectively, and are included in other income (expense), net. For the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, gains from changes in the cash surrender
value of life insurance policies totaled $2.4 million and $2.4 million,
respectively, and are included in other income (expense), net.

Derivative
Financial Instruments

The
Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to market
risks for changes in interest rates and foreign currencies. This strategy includes
the use of interest rate swap agreements, forward starting interest rate swap
agreements and foreign currency forward contracts to manage its exposure to
movements in interest and currency rates. The Company has established policies
and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring
of derivative financial instrument activities. These policies prohibit holding
or issuing derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The
Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments that contain
credit-risk-related contingent features or requirements to post collateral.

Interest
Rate Risk

The
Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents and
its debt obligations. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents may
fluctuate as interest rates change; however, due to their relatively short
maturities, the Company does not hedge these assets or their investment cash
flows and the impact of interest rate risk is not material. The Company’s debt
obligations consist of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt instruments. The
Company’s primary objective is to achieve the lowest overall cost of funding
while managing the variability in cash outflows within

F-11

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

an acceptable
range. In order to achieve these objectives, the Company has entered into
interest rate swaps. Interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of
payments without the exchange of underlying principal or notional amounts. Net
settlements between the counterparties are recognized as an adjustment to
interest expense.

The
Company formally documents its hedge relationships, including identifying the
hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management
objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transaction. On the date
the derivative is entered into, the Company designates the type of derivative
as a fair value hedge or cash flow hedge, and accounts for the derivative in
accordance with its designation as prescribed by the standards on accounting
for derivative instruments and hedging activities. At inception and at least quarterly
thereafter, the Company formally assesses whether the derivatives that are used
in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair
value or cash flows of the hedged item. All components of each derivative
financial instrument’s gain or loss are included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.

The
Company accounts for its derivatives as either an asset or liability measured
at its fair value. The fair value is based upon quoted market prices obtained
from third-party financial institutions and includes an adjustment for the
credit risk of the obligor’s non-performance. For a derivative instrument that has been formally designated as a fair
value hedge, fair value gains or losses on the derivative instrument are
reported in earnings, together with offsetting fair value gains or losses on
the hedged item that are attributable to the risk being hedged. For
derivatives that have been formally designated as a cash flow hedge, the
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivatives is recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and the ineffective portion is
recorded in earnings. Upon maturity or early termination of an effective
interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge, unrealized gains or losses
are deferred in stockholders’ equity, as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), and are amortized as an adjustment to interest
expense over the period during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects
earnings. If it is determined that a derivative ceases to be a highly effective
hedge, the Company discontinues hedge accounting and any deferred gains or
losses related to a discontinued cash flow hedge shall continue to be reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), unless it is probable that
the forecasted transaction will not occur. If it is probable that the
forecasted transaction will not occur by the originally specified time period,
the Company discontinues hedge accounting, and any deferred gains or losses
reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are classified into
earnings immediately.

Foreign
Currency Risk

The
Company is exposed to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates
primarily under certain intercompany receivables and payables. Foreign
exchange forward contracts are used to mitigate the exposure of the eventual
net cash inflows or outflows resulting from these intercompany transactions.
The objective is to hedge a portion of the forecasted foreign currency risk
over a rolling 12-month time horizon to mitigate the eventual impacts of
changes in foreign exchange rates on the cash flows of the intercompany
transactions. As of December 31, 2010, the total notional amount of foreign
currency forward contracts in U.S. dollars was $55.9 million and principally
consist of contracts in Swedish krona and British pounds. Notional amounts
represent the face amount of contractual arrangements and the basis on which
currencies are exchanged and are not a measure of market or credit risk
exposure. The Company does not designate these derivative instruments as hedges
under current accounting standards unless the benefits of doing so are
material. The Company’s foreign exchange exposure is not material to the
Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The
Company does not hedge its net investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries because it
views those investments as long-term in nature.

Comprehensive
Income (Loss)

Comprehensive
income (loss) encompasses all changes in stockholders’ equity (except those
arising from transactions with stockholders) and includes net income, net
unrealized capital gains or losses on available-for-sale securities, foreign
currency translation adjustments and deferred gains and losses related to
certain derivative financial instruments (see Note 11). Total comprehensive
income, including the amount attributable to noncontrolling interests, was $789
million, $813 million and $520 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively.

F-12

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

New
Accounting Standards

In
October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an
amendment to the accounting standards related to the accounting for revenue in
arrangements with multiple deliverables including how the arrangement
consideration is allocated among delivered and undelivered items of the
arrangement. This standard will become effective for the Company on January 1,
2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

In
October 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This standard
clarifies the existing accounting guidance such that tangible products that
contain both software and non-software components that function together to
deliver the product’s essential functionality, shall be excluded from the scope
of the software revenue recognition accounting standards. This standard will
become effective for the Company on January 1, 2011 and is not expected to have
a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In
January 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to the disclosures about an entity’s use of fair value measurements. Among
these amendments, entities are required to provide separate disclosures about
purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to the tabular
reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of the Level 3 (fair value
determined based on significant unobservable inputs) classification and provide
greater disaggregation for each class of assets and liabilities that use fair
value measurements. The requirement to provide the enhanced disclosures for
Level 3 fair value measurements is effective for the Company for interim and
annual reporting periods beginning after December 31, 2010. The Company does
not expect that the adoption of these new disclosure requirements will have a
material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In
August 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to the accounting for insurance recoveries. This standard clarifies that a
healthcare entity may not net insurance recoveries against related professional
claim liabilities in its balance sheet. In addition, this standard also
requires that claim liabilities be determined without consideration of
insurance recoveries. This standard will become effective for the Company on
January 1, 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

In
August 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to the financial statement disclosure of the amount of charity care provided by
a healthcare entity. This standard requires that the cost of performing
services be used as the measurement basis for charity care disclosures. This
standard will become effective for the Company on January 1, 2011 and is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.

In
December 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting standards related
to goodwill which (1) modifies step one of the goodwill impairment test by
requiring entities with reporting units that have a zero or negative carrying
value to assess, whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment
exists and (2) does not prescribe a specific method of calculating the carrying
value of a reporting unit in the performance of step one of the goodwill
impairment test. Under the requirements of this standard, if the entity
concludes that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists,
the entity must perform step two of the goodwill impairment test. In determining whether it is more likely
than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether
there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment exists.
This standard will become effective for the Company on January 1, 2011
and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

In
December 2010, the FASB issued an amendment related to the accounting for
business combinations to address diversity in practice about the interpretation
of the pro forma revenue and earnings disclosure requirements for business
combinations. This standard will become effective for the Company on January 1,
2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

F-13

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

3. EARNINGS PER SHARE

The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share was as follows (in
thousands, except per share data):

The
following securities were not included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation due to their antidilutive effect (in thousands):

F-14

QUEST
DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

4. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

The
following tables provide summaries of the recognized assets and liabilities
that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

The
Company offers certain employees the opportunity to participate in a
supplemental deferred compensation plan. A participant’s deferrals, together
with Company matching credits, are invested in a variety of
participant-directed stock and bond mutual funds that are classified as trading
securities. Changes in the fair value of these securities are measured using quoted
prices in active markets based on the market price per unit multiplied by the
number of units held exclusive of any transaction costs. A corresponding
adjustment for changes in fair value of the trading securities is also
reflected in the changes in fair value of the deferred compensation obligation.
The deferred compensation liabilities are classified within Level 2 because
their inputs are derived principally from observable market data by correlation
to the trading securities.

F-15

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
Company offers certain employees the opportunity to participate in a
non-qualified deferred compensation program. A participant’s deferrals,
together with Company matching credits, are “invested” at the direction of the
employee in a hypothetical portfolio of investments which are tracked by an
administrator. The Company purchases life insurance policies, with the Company
named as beneficiary of the policies, for the purpose of funding the program’s
liability. Changes in the cash surrender value of the life insurance policies
are based upon earnings and changes in the value of the underlying investments.
Changes in the fair value of the deferred compensation obligation are derived
using quoted prices in active markets based on the market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units. The cash surrender value and the deferred
compensation obligations are classified within Level 2 because their inputs are
derived principally from observable market data by correlation to the
hypothetical investments.

The fair value
measurements of foreign currency forward contracts are obtained from a third-party
pricing service and are based on market prices in actual transactions and other
relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or
comparable assets or liabilities. The fair value measurements of the Company’s
interest rate swaps are model-derived valuations as of a given date in which
all significant inputs are observable in active markets including certain
financial information and certain assumptions regarding past, present and
future market conditions. The Company does not believe that the changes in the
fair values of its foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps
will materially differ from the amounts that could be realized upon settlement
or maturity or that the changes in fair value will have a material effect on
its results of operations, liquidity and capital resources.

Investments
in available-for-sale equity securities consist of the revaluation of an
existing investment in unregistered common shares of a publicly-held company.
This investment is classified within Level 3 because the unregistered
securities contain restrictions on their sale, and therefore, the fair value
measurement reflects a discount for the effect of the restriction.

In
the second quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a charge of $7.0 million
associated with the write-down of an investment due to the uncertainty of
recoverability from an other-than-temporary impairment loss. A fair value
measurement, using significant unobservable inputs, has been applied to this
asset on a non-recurring basis.

The
carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts
payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value based on the short
maturities of these instruments. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value
of the Company’s debt was estimated at approximately $3.1 billion and $3.3
billion, respectively, using quoted market prices and yields for the same or
similar types of borrowings, taking into account the underlying terms of the
debt instruments. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the estimated fair value
exceeded the carrying value of the debt by $80 million and $151 million,
respectively.

5. TAXES ON INCOME

The
Company’s pre-tax income (loss) from continuing operations consisted of $1.18
billion, $1.23 billion and $1.05 billion from U.S. operations and $1.9 million,
$1.8 million and $(1.2) million from foreign operations for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The
components of income tax expense (benefit) for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as
follows:

F-16

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

A
reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the Company’s effective tax
rate for 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
the deferred tax assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as
follows:

At
December 31, 2010, non-current deferred tax assets of $7 million are recorded
in other long-term assets and non-current deferred tax liabilities of $193
million are recorded in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance
sheet. At December 31, 2009, non-current deferred tax liabilities of $188
million are included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance
sheet.

As
of December 31, 2010, the Company had estimated net operating loss
carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of $10 million and $660
million, respectively, which expire at various dates through 2030. Estimated
net operating loss carryforwards for foreign income tax purposes of $38 million
at December 31, 2010 can be carried forward indefinitely. As of December 31,
2010 and 2009, deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss
carryforwards of $50 million and $48 million, respectively, have each been
reduced by a valuation allowance of $13 million and $12 million, respectively.

Income
taxes payable including those classified in other long-term liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were $128 million
and $100 million, respectively.

F-17

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of and for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 consists of the following:

The
contingent liabilities for tax positions primarily relate to uncertainties
associated with the realization of tax benefits derived from certain state net
operating loss carryforwards, the allocation of income and expense among state
jurisdictions, the characterization and timing of certain tax deductions
associated with business combinations and employee compensation, income and
expenses associated with certain intercompany licensing arrangements, and the
deductibility of certain settlement payments.

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2010, that, if
recognized, would affect the effective income tax rate from continuing
operations is $64 million. Based upon
the expiration of statutes of limitations, settlements and/or the conclusion of
tax examinations, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that the total
amount of unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by up to $14 million within
the next twelve months.

Accruals
for interest expense on contingent tax liabilities are classified in income tax
expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Accruals for penalties have historically been immaterial. Interest expense included in income tax
expense in 2010 and 2009 was approximately $2 million in each year. As a result of changes in judgment and
favorable resolutions of uncertain tax positions, $5 million of net interest
was credited to income tax expense in 2008.
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company has approximately $9
million and $7 million, respectively, accrued, net of the benefit of a federal
and state deduction, for the payment of interest on uncertain tax
positions.

The
recognition and measurement of certain tax benefits includes estimates and
judgment by management and inherently involves subjectivity. Changes in estimates may create volatility
in the Company’s effective tax rate in future periods and may be due to
settlements with various tax authorities (either favorable or unfavorable), the
expiration of the statute of limitations on some tax positions and obtaining
new information about particular tax positions that may cause management to
change its estimates.

In the
regular course of business, various federal, state and local and foreign tax
authorities conduct examinations of the Company’s income tax filings and the
Company generally remains subject to examination until the statute of
limitations expires for the respective jurisdiction. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has completed its
examinations of the Company’s consolidated federal income tax returns up
through and including the 2005 tax year.
In addition, the IRS has substantially completed its audit of the
Company’s federal income tax returns for its 2006 and 2007 tax years, and has
issued their related revenue agent report.
In addition, certain state tax authorities are conducting audits for
various years between 2000 and 2009.
In December 2008, the Company reached a settlement agreement to pay a
state tax authority approximately $44 million in taxes, penalties and interest
($26 million, net of federal and state benefits) for certain tax positions
associated with intercompany licensing arrangements. This settlement was paid in 2009. At this time, the Company does not believe that there will be any
material additional payments beyond its recorded contingent liability reserves
that may be required as a result of these tax audits. As of December 31, 2010, a summary of the tax years that remain
subject to examination for the Company’s major jurisdictions are:

United States – federal

2006 – 2010

United States – various states

2005 – 2010

F-18

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

In
conjunction with its acquisition of SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories,
Inc. (“SBCL”), which operated the clinical testing business of SmithKline
Beecham plc (“SmithKline Beecham”), the Company entered into a tax
indemnification arrangement with SmithKline Beecham that provides the parties
with certain rights of indemnification against each other. During 2009, the Company paid SmithKline
Beecham approximately $10 million related to the realization of certain
pre-acquisition net loss carryforwards that were payable to SmithKline Beecham
pursuant to the tax indemnification arrangement.

6. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW AND OTHER DATA

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property,
plant and equipment at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following:

8. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The
changes in goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as
follows:

F-19

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, goodwill acquired was associated with several
immaterial acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2010, other purchase
accounting adjustments were primarily related to a milestone payment on an
acquisition from 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, other purchase
accounting adjustments were primarily related to a payment received from an
escrow fund established at the time of the HemoCue acquisition in 2007.
Approximately 90% of the Company’s goodwill as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
was associated with its clinical testing business.

Intangible
assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following:

Amortization
expense related to intangible assets was $39.2 million, $37.1 million and $37.3
million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The
estimated amortization expense related to amortizable intangible assets for
each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter as of December 31, 2010
is as follows:

F-20

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

9. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts
payable and accrued expenses at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the
following:

10. DEBT

Long-term
debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following:

Early
Extinguishment of Debt

For
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded $20.4 million
and $0.9 million of pre-tax charges related to the early extinguishment of
debt, primarily related to the Company’s June 2009 and November 2009 debt
tender offers, the repayment of borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan due
2012 in 2009 and 2008, and the 2009 repayment of the remaining principal
outstanding under the certain debentures due June 2034.

June 2009
Debt Tender Offer

On
May 19, 2009, the Company commenced a cash tender offer to purchase up to $200
million aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and
7.50% Senior Notes due 2011. On June 16, 2009, the Company finalized its cash
tender offer (the “June 2009 Debt Tender Offer”) by purchasing $174
million aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and $26
million aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 that resulted
in pre-tax losses of $4.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The aggregate
pre-tax loss of $6.3 million includes the write-off of $0.5 million of deferred
financing fees and unamortized discounts and cash payments of $5.8 million
related to premiums and other costs to purchase the 5.125% Senior Notes due
2010 and the 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 and is included in other income
(expense), net. The June 2009 Debt Tender Offer was financed with cash on-hand
and $150 million of borrowings under the Secured Receivables Credit Facility
discussed below.

F-21

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

November
2009 Debt Tender Offer

In
connection with the 2009 Senior Notes offering which is discussed below, on
November 12, 2009, the Company commenced a cash tender offer to purchase any
and all of its outstanding 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010, and any and all of its
outstanding 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011. On November 20, 2009, the Company
finalized its cash tender offer (the “November 2009 Debt Tender Offer”) by
purchasing $61 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes
due 2010 and $89 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Senior Notes
due 2011 that resulted in pre-tax losses of $2.6 million and $9.4 million,
respectively. The aggregate pre-tax loss of $12.1 million includes the
write-off of $0.3 million of deferred financing fees and unamortized discounts
and cash payments of $11.8 million related to premiums and other costs to purchase
the 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and the 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 and is
included in other income (expense), net. The November 2009 Debt Tender Offer
was financed with the net proceeds from the Company’s 2009 Senior Notes
offering which is discussed below.

Other
Extinguishments

During
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company repaid $350 million and
$293 million, respectively, of borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan due
2012 and recorded pre-tax losses of $0.7 million and $0.9 million,
respectively, related to the write-off of deferred financing fees.

In
connection with the Company’s repayment in 2009 of the remaining principal
outstanding under certain debentures due June 2034, the Company recorded a
pre-tax charge of $1.3 million, primarily related to the write-off of
unamortized discounts.

2009 Senior
Notes Offering

On
November 17, 2009, the Company completed a $750 million senior notes offering
(the “2009 Senior Notes”). The 2009 Senior Notes were sold in two tranches: (a)
$500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due January 30,
2020 (the “Senior Notes due 2020”), issued at a discount of $7.5 million and
(b) $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due January
30, 2040 (the “Senior Notes due 2040”), issued at a discount of $6.9 million.
After considering the discounts, the effective interest rates on the Senior
Notes due 2020 and the Senior Notes due 2040 are 4.9% and 5.9%, respectively. The
2009 Senior Notes require semiannual interest payments, which commenced on July
30, 2010. The 2009 Senior Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company and
rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured obligations. The 2009 Senior
Notes do not have a sinking fund requirement and are guaranteed by certain of
the Company’s domestic, wholly-owned subsidiaries (the “Subsidiary
Guarantors”).

The
Company incurred $6.9 million of costs associated with the 2009 Senior Notes,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

The
Company used $612 million of the net proceeds from the 2009 Senior Notes to
fund the retirement of $150 million of debt and cash payments of $11.8 million
related to premiums and other costs in connection with the Company’s November
2009 Debt Tender Offer, and the repayment of $100 million outstanding under the
Company’s Secured Receivables Credit Facility and $350 million outstanding
under the Company’s Term Loan due 2012. The remainder of the net proceeds from
the 2009 Senior Notes offering were used for general corporate purposes.

As
further discussed in Note 11, the Company hedged its interest rate exposure on
a portion of the Senior Notes due 2020. This hedge has been designated as a
fair value hedge. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying value of the
Senior Notes due 2020 has been increased (decreased) by the fair value of this
hedge of $10.5 million and ($14.4) million, respectively.

Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility

In
May 2007, the Company entered into a $750 million senior unsecured revolving
credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which replaced the Company’s $500
million senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The Credit Facility matures
in May 2012. Interest on the Credit Facility is based on certain published
rates plus an applicable margin that will vary over a range from 40 basis
points to 125 basis points based on changes in the Company’s public debt
ratings. At the option of the Company, it may elect to enter into LIBOR-based
interest rate contracts for periods up to six

F-22

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

months.
Interest on any outstanding amounts not covered under LIBOR-based interest rate
contracts is based on an alternate base rate, which is calculated by reference
to the prime rate or federal funds rate. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans under the Credit Facility was
LIBOR (0.3% and 0.2% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively) plus 0.40%.
The Credit Facility is guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors. The Credit
Facility contains various covenants, including the maintenance of certain
financial ratios, which could impact the Company’s ability to, among other
things, incur additional indebtedness. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, there
were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility.

The
Company incurred $3.1 million of costs associated with the Credit Facility,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

Secured
Receivables Credit Facility

On
December 10, 2010, the Company extended its $525 million secured receivables
securitization facility (the “Secured Receivables Credit Facility”). The Secured
Receivables Credit Facility continues to be supported by back-up facilities
provided on a committed basis by two banks: (a) $275 million, which matures on
December 9, 2011 and (b) $250 million, which also matures on December 9, 2011.
Interest on the Secured Receivables Credit Facility is based on rates that are
intended to approximate commercial paper rates for highly-rated issuers. At
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s borrowing rate under the Secured
Receivables Credit Facility was 1.2% and 1.4%, respectively. At December 31,
2010 and 2009, there were no borrowings under the Secured Receivables Credit
Facility.

In
April 2009, the Company borrowed $310 million under its Secured Receivables
Credit Facility primarily to fund payments totaling $314 million in connection
with the previously disclosed settlement of the federal government
investigation related to NID (see Note 16). In addition, the Company borrowed $150
million to fund debt repayments in connection with the June 2009 Debt Tender
Offer. All 2009 borrowings under the Secured Receivables Credit Facility were
repaid prior to December 31, 2009.

Term
Loan due 2012

On
May 31, 2007, the Company entered into a five-year term loan facility (the
“Term Loan due 2012”). The Term Loan due 2012 matures on May 31, 2012
and requires principal repayments of $182 million, $280 million and $280 million
on December 31, 2011, March 31, 2012 and May 31, 2012, respectively. The Term
Loan due 2012 is guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors. Interest under the
Term Loan due 2012 is based on certain published rates plus an applicable margin
that will vary over a range from 40 basis points to 125 basis points based on
changes in the Company’s public debt ratings. At the Company’s option,
it may elect to enter into LIBOR-based interest rate contracts for periods up
to six months. Interest on any outstanding amounts not covered under LIBOR-based
interest rate contracts is based on an alternate base rate, which is calculated
by reference to the prime rate or federal funds rate. As of December 31, 2010,
the Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based loans was LIBOR (0.3%) plus
0.40%. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s borrowing rate for LIBOR-based
loans was LIBOR (0.2%) plus 0.50%.

The
Company incurred $7 million of costs associated with the Term Loan due 2012,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

During
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company repaid $350 million and
$293 million, respectively, of borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan due
2012.

Other
Senior Notes

In
2001, the Company issued $275 million aggregate principal amount of 7.50% senior
notes due 2011 (“Senior Notes due 2011”), issued at a discount of $1.1
million. After considering the discount, the effective interest rate on the Senior
Notes due 2011 is 7.6%. The Senior Notes due 2011 require semiannual interest
payments. The Senior Notes due 2011 are unsecured obligations of the Company
and rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured senior obligations.
The Senior Notes due 2011 are guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and do
not have a sinking fund requirement. In connection with the Company’s June
2009 Debt Tender Offer and November 2009 Debt Tender Offer, the Company repaid
$26 million and $89 million, respectively, outstanding under the Senior Notes
due 2011.

F-23

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

On
October 31, 2005, the Company completed its $900 million private placement of
senior notes (the “2005 Senior Notes”). The 2005 Senior Notes were priced in
two tranches: (a) $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.125% senior
notes due November 2010 (“Senior Notes due 2010”); and (b) $500 million
aggregate principal amount of 5.45% senior notes due November 2015 (“Senior
Notes due 2015”). The Senior Notes due 2010 and 2015 were issued at a discount
of $0.8 million and $1.6 million, respectively. After considering the
discounts, the effective interest rates on the Senior Notes due 2010 and 2015
are 5.3% and 5.6%, respectively. The 2005 Senior Notes require semiannual
interest payments, which commenced on May 1, 2006. The 2005 Senior Notes are
unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with the Company’s other
unsecured senior obligations. The 2005 Senior Notes are guaranteed by the
Subsidiary Guarantors. In connection with the Company’s June 2009 Debt Tender
Offer and November 2009 Debt Tender Offer, the Company repaid $174 million and
$61 million, respectively, outstanding under the Senior Notes due 2010. In
November 2010, the remaining outstanding principal balance of the Senior Notes
due 2010 of $166 million were repaid in full at maturity.

On
June 22, 2007, the Company completed an $800 million senior notes offering (the
“2007 Senior Notes”). The 2007 Senior Notes were priced in two tranches: (a)
$375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.40% senior notes due July 2017
(the “Senior Notes due 2017”), issued at a discount of $0.8 million and (b)
$425 million aggregate principal amount of 6.95% senior notes due July 2037
(the “Senior Notes due 2037”), issued at a discount of $4.7 million. After
considering the discounts, the effective interest rates on the Senior Notes due
2017 and the Senior Notes due 2037 are 6.4% and 7.0%, respectively. The 2007
Senior Notes require semiannual interest payments, which commenced on January
1, 2008. The 2007 Senior Notes are unsecured obligations of the Company and
rank equally with the Company’s other unsecured obligations. The 2007 Senior
Notes do not have a sinking fund requirement and are guaranteed by the
Subsidiary Guarantors.

The
Company incurred $6.3 million of costs associated with the 2007 Senior Notes,
which is being amortized over the term of the related debt.

As
of December 31, 2010, long-term debt maturing in each of the years subsequent
to December 31, 2011 is as follows:

11. FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

Interest Rate Swap Agreements - Cash Flow Hedges

During
the third quarter of 2009, the Company entered into various forward starting
interest rate swap agreements (the “Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap
Agreements”) for an aggregate notional amount of $400 million. The Forward
Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements had fixed interest rates ranging from
4.120% to 4.575%. The Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements were 17
to 18 month forward agreements that covered a ten-year hedging period and were
entered into to hedge part of the Company’s interest rate exposure associated
with forecasted new debt issuances related to the refinancing of certain debt
maturing through 2011. In connection with the issuance of our 2009 Senior
Notes, the Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements were terminated and
the Company paid $10.5 million, representing the losses on the settlement of
the Forward Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements, which have been accounted
for as cash flow hedges. These losses are deferred in stockholders’ equity,
net of taxes, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),
and amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over the term of the Senior
Notes due 2020.

F-24

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Prior
to their maturity or settlement, the Company records derivative financial
instruments, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, as either an asset
or liability measured at its fair value. The effective portion of changes in
the fair value of these derivatives represent deferred gains or losses that are
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These deferred gains
or losses are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
to the statement of operations in the same period or periods during which the
hedged transaction affects earnings, which is when the Company recognizes
interest expense on the hedged cash flows. The total net loss, net of taxes,
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), related to the
Company’s cash flow hedges as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 was
$6.6 million and $7.3 million, respectively. The loss recognized on the Company’s
cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, as a
result of ineffectiveness, was not material. The net amount of deferred losses
on cash flow hedges that is expected to be reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) into earnings within the next twelve months is $1.1
million.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements – Fair Value Hedges

In
November 2009, the Company entered into various fixed-to-variable interest rate
swap agreements (the “Fixed-to-Variable Interest Rate Swap Agreements”) which
have a notional amount totaling $350 million and a variable interest rate based
on one-month LIBOR plus 1.33%. These derivative financial instruments are
accounted for as fair value hedges of a portion of our Senior Notes due 2020
and effectively convert that portion of the debt into variable interest rate
debt. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the changes in the fair value of both the Fixed-to-Variable
Interest Rate Swap Agreements and the underlying debt obligation in other
income (expense), net as equal and offsetting gains and losses. The fair value
of the Fixed-to-Variable Interest Rate Swap Agreements was an asset of $10.5
million at December 31, 2010 and a liability of $14.4 million at December 31,
2009. Since inception, the fair value hedges have been effective; therefore,
there is no impact on earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
as a result of hedge ineffectiveness.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

The
Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its risk associated
with foreign currency denominated cash flows. The primary foreign currency
exposures include Swedish krona and British pounds.

A
summary of the fair values of derivative instruments in the consolidated
balance sheets is stated in the table below (in thousands):

F-25

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

12. PREFERRED STOCK AND COMMON STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

Series
Preferred Stock

Quest
Diagnostics is authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of Series Preferred
Stock, par value $1.00 per share. The Company’s Board of Directors has the
authority to issue such shares without stockholder approval and to determine
the designations, preferences, rights and restrictions of such shares. Of the
authorized shares, 1,300,000 shares have been designated Series A Preferred
Stock and 1,000 shares have been designated Voting Cumulative Preferred Stock.
No shares are currently outstanding.

Common
Stock

On
May 4, 2006, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation was amended to
increase the number of authorized shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per
share, from 300 million shares to 600 million shares.

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for 2010, 2009 and
2008 were as follows:

The
market value adjustments for 2008 represented unrealized holding losses, net of
taxes. The market value adjustments for 2010 represented unrealized holding
gains, net of taxes. The reversal of market value adjustments for 2009 and 2008
represented prior periods unrealized holding losses for investments where the
decline in fair value was deemed to be other than temporary in 2009 and 2008,
and the resulting loss was recognized in the consolidated statements of
operations (see Note 2). The deferred loss for 2009 primarily represented the
$10.5 million the Company paid upon settlement of the Forward Starting Interest
Rate Swap Agreements, net of amounts reclassified to interest expense (see Note
11). Foreign currency translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes
since they relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.

F-26

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Dividends

During
each of the quarters of 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors
declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share.

Share
Repurchases

For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased 14.7 million shares
of its common stock at an average price of $51.04 per share for $750 million,
including 4.5 million shares purchased in the first quarter at an average price
per share of $56.21 for $251 million under an accelerated share repurchase
transaction (“ASR”) with a bank.

Under
the ASR, in January 2010, the Company repurchased 4.5 million shares of the
Company’s outstanding common stock for an initial purchase price of $56.05 per
share. The purchase price of these shares was subject to an adjustment based on
the volume weighted average price of the Company’s common stock during a period
following execution of the agreement. The total cost of the initial purchase
was $250 million. The purchase price adjustment was settled in the first
quarter of 2010 and resulted in an additional cash payment of $0.7 million, for
a final purchase price of $251 million, or $56.21 per share.

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company repurchased 10.0 million shares
of its common stock at an average price of $49.83 per share for $500 million,
including 4.5 million shares repurchased from SB Holdings Capital Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. (“GSK”), at an average price of
$44.33 per share for $200 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
repurchased 5.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price of
$46.09 per share for $254 million.

For
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company reissued 2.1
million shares, 3.0 million shares and 1.5 million, respectively, for employee
benefit plans.

On
October 20, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized $250 million of additional
share repurchases, which have no set expiration or termination date. At
December 31, 2010, $250 million remained available under the share repurchase
authorizations. In January 2011, the Board of Directors authorized $750 million
of additional share repurchases, bringing the total available under share
repurchase authorizations to $1 billion.

On
January 31, 2011, the Company agreed to repurchase 15.4 million shares of its
common stock from SB Holdings Capital Inc., an affiliate of GSK, at a purchase
price of $54.30 per share for $835 million. See Note 18 for further details.

13. STOCK OWNERSHIP AND COMPENSATION PLANS

Employee
and Non-employee Directors Stock Ownership Programs

In
2005, the Company established the ELTIP to replace the Company’s prior Employee
Equity Participation Programs established in 1999 (the “1999 EEPP”) and 1996,
as amended (the “1996 EEPP”). At the Company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in
May 2009, the shareholders approved certain amendments to the ELTIP including:
(i) increasing the number of shares available for award under the ELTIP by
approximately 5.2 million shares; (ii) increasing the maximum term that the
Board of Directors may establish for awards of stock options and stock
appreciation rights from seven to ten years, beginning with awards in 2009; and
(iii) extending the term of the ELTIP until the date of the 2019 annual
shareholders’ meeting.

The
ELTIP provides for three types of awards: (a) stock options, (b) stock
appreciation rights and (c) stock awards. The ELTIP provides for the grant to
eligible employees of either non-qualified or incentive stock options, or both,
to purchase shares of Company common stock at a price of no less than the fair
market value on the date of grant. The stock options are subject to forfeiture
if employment terminates prior to the end of the vesting period prescribed by
the Board of Directors. Grants of stock appreciation rights allow eligible
employees to receive a payment based on the appreciation of Company common
stock in cash, shares of Company common stock or a combination thereof. The

F-27

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

stock
appreciation rights are granted at an exercise price at no less than the fair
market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. Stock options
and stock appreciation rights granted under the ELTIP expire on the date
designated by the Board of Directors but in no event more than ten years from
date of grant. No stock appreciation rights have been granted under the ELTIP
or the 1999 EEPP. The ELTIP allows eligible employees to receive awards of
shares, or the right to receive shares, of Company common stock, the equivalent
value in cash or a combination thereof. These shares are generally earned on
achievement of financial performance goals and are subject to forfeiture if
employment terminates prior to the end of the vesting period prescribed by the
Board of Directors. For performance share unit awards, the actual amount of
performance share awards earned is based on the compound annual growth rate of
the Company’s earnings per share from continuing operations over a three-year
period. Key executive, managerial and technical employees are eligible to
participate in the ELTIP. The provisions of the 1999 EEPP and the 1996 EEPP
were similar to those outlined above for the ELTIP. Certain options granted
under the 1999 EEPP remain outstanding.

The maximum
number of shares of Company common stock that may be optioned or granted under
the ELTIP is approximately 53 million shares. In addition, any remaining shares
under the 1996 EEPP are available for issuance under the ELTIP.

In
2005, the Company established the DLTIP, to replace the Company’s prior plan
established in 1998. At the Company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in May 2009,
the shareholders approved certain amendments to the DLTIP including: (i)
increasing the number of shares available for award under the DLTIP by 0.4
million shares; (ii) increasing the maximum term that the Board of Directors
may establish for awards of stock options from seven to ten years, beginning
with awards in 2009; and (iii) extending the term of the DLTIP until the date
of the 2019 annual shareholders’ meeting.

The
DLTIP provides for the grant to non-employee directors of non-qualified stock
options to purchase shares of Company common stock at a price of no less than
the fair market value on the date of grant. The DLTIP also permits awards of
restricted stock and restricted stock units to non-employee directors. Stock
options granted under the DLTIP expire on the date designated by the Board of
Directors but in no event more than ten years from date of grant, and generally
become exercisable in three equal annual installments beginning on the first
anniversary date of the grant of the option regardless of whether the optionee
remains a director of the Company. The maximum number of shares that may be
issued under the DLTIP is 2.4 million shares. For each of the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, grants under the DLTIP totaled 77 thousand
shares.

In
general, the Company’s practice has been to issue shares related to its
stock-based compensation program from shares of its common stock held in
treasury. See Note 12 for further information regarding the Company’s share
repurchase program.

The
fair value of each stock option award granted was estimated on the date of
grant using a lattice-based option-valuation model. The expected volatility
under the lattice-based option-valuation model was based on the current and the
historical implied volatilities from traded options of the Company’s common
stock. The dividend yield was based on the approved annual dividend rate in
effect and current market price of the underlying common stock at the time of
grant. The risk-free interest rate of each stock option granted was based on
the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for bonds with
maturities ranging from one month to ten years. The expected holding period of
the options granted was estimated using the historical exercise behavior of
employees. The weighted average assumptions used in valuing options granted in
the periods presented are:

The
fair value of restricted stock awards and performance share units is the
average market price of the Company’s common stock at the date of grant.

F-28

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Transactions
under the stock option plans for 2010 were as follows:

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax
intrinsic value (the difference between the Company’s closing common stock
price on the last trading day of 2010 and the exercise price, multiplied by the
number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option
holders had all option holders exercised their options on December 31, 2010.
This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company’s common
stock. Total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
$22 million, $44 million and $20 million, respectively.

As
of December 31, 2010, there was $12 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation
cost related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of 1.8 years.

The
following summarizes the activity relative to stock awards, including
restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and performance share units,
for 2010, 2009 and 2008:

As
of December 31, 2010, there was $35 million of unrecognized stock-based
compensation cost related to nonvested stock awards, which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years. Total fair value of
shares vested was $41.2 million, $16.4 million and $8.4 million for the years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The amount of unrecognized
stock-based compensation cost is subject to change based on revisions, if any,
to management’s best estimates of the achievement of the performance goals
specified in such awards and the resulting number of shares that will be earned
at the end of the performance periods.

F-29

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

For
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, stock-based compensation
expense totaled $54 million, $75 million and $71 million, respectively. Income
tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense totaled $21 million,
$29 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

Employee
Stock Purchase Plan

Under
the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), which was approved by the
Company’s shareholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
substantially all employees can elect to have up to 10% of their annual wages
withheld to purchase Quest Diagnostics common stock. The purchase price of the
stock is 85% of the market price of the Company’s common stock on the last
business day of each calendar month. Under the ESPP, the maximum number of
shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock which may be purchased by eligible
employees is 5 million. Approximately 464, 445 and 436 thousand shares of
common stock were purchased by eligible employees in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

Defined
Contribution Plans

The
Company maintains qualified defined contribution plans covering substantially
all of its employees, and matches employee contributions up to a maximum of 6%.
The Company’s expense for contributions to its defined contribution plans
aggregated $79 million, $82 million and $78 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

Supplemental
Deferred Compensation Plans

The
Company’s supplemental deferred compensation plan is an unfunded, non-qualified
plan that provides for certain management and highly compensated employees to
defer up to 50% of their salary in excess of their defined contribution plan
limits and for certain eligible employees, up to 95% of their variable
incentive compensation. The Company matches employee contributions up to a
maximum of 6%. The compensation deferred under this plan, together with Company
matching amounts, are credited with earnings or losses measured by the mirrored
rate of return on investments elected by plan participants. Each plan
participant is fully vested in all deferred compensation, Company match and
earnings credited to their account. The amounts accrued under this plan were
$39 million and $34 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Although
the Company is currently contributing all participant deferrals and matching
amounts to a trust, the funds in the trust, totaling $39 million and $34
million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are general assets of the
Company and are subject to any claims of the Company’s creditors.

The
Company also offers certain employees the opportunity to participate in a
non-qualified deferred compensation program. Eligible participants are allowed
to defer up to 20 thousand dollars of eligible compensation per year. The
Company matches employee contributions equal to 25%, up to a maximum of 5
thousand dollars per plan year. A participant’s deferrals, together with
Company matching credits, are “invested” at the direction of the employee in a
hypothetical portfolio of investments which are tracked by an administrator.
Each participant is fully vested in their deferred compensation and vest in
Company matching contributions over a four-year period at 25% per year. The
amounts accrued under this plan were $23 million and $20 million at December
31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company purchases life insurance policies,
with the Company named as beneficiary of the policies, for the purpose of
funding the program’s liability. The cash surrender value of such life
insurance policies was $20 million and $16 million at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively.

For
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s expense for
matching contributions to these plans was $1.6 million, $0.8 million and $1.0
million, respectively.

14. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

At
December 31, 2010, GSK beneficially owned approximately 18% of the outstanding
shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock. On January 31, 2011, the Company
agreed to repurchase from SB Holdings Capital Inc., an affiliate of GSK, approximately
one-half of GSK’s ownership interest in the Company, or 15.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock.
In a separate transaction on January 31, 2011, GSK agreed
to sell in an underwritten offering to the public, its remaining ownership
interest in the Company, or 15.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock.
Subsequent to these transactions, GSK no longer
beneficially owns any shares of Quest Diagnostics common stock. See Note 18 for
further details.

F-30

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

Quest
Diagnostics is the primary provider of testing to support GSK’s clinical trials
testing requirements under a worldwide agreement (the “Clinical Trials
Agreement”). Net revenues, primarily derived
under the Clinical Trials Agreement were $63 million, $72 million and $71
million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009,
accounts receivable due from GSK were $15.7 million and $17.3 million,
respectively.

During
2009, the Company paid SmithKline Beecham approximately $10 million related to
the realization of certain pre-acquisition net loss carryforwards that were
payable to SmithKline Beecham pursuant to a tax indemnification arrangement.
Amounts due to GSK at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material.

15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Letter of Credit Lines and Contractual Obligations

The
Company has a line of credit with a financial institution totaling $85 million
for the issuance of letters of credit (the “Letter of Credit Line”). The Letter
of Credit Line, which is renewed annually, matures on November 19, 2011 and is
guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.

In
support of its risk management program, to ensure the Company’s performance or
payment to third parties, $63 million in letters of credit were outstanding at
December 31, 2010. The letters of credit primarily represent collateral for
current and future automobile liability and workers’ compensation loss
payments. In addition, $6 million of bank guarantees were outstanding at
December 31, 2010 in support of certain foreign operations.

Minimum
rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, primarily real estate,
in effect at December 31, 2010 are as follows:

Operating
lease rental expense for 2010, 2009 and 2008 aggregated $196 million, $189 million
and $190 million, respectively. Rent expense associated with operating leases
that include scheduled rent increases and tenant incentives, such as rent
holidays, is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

The
Company has certain noncancelable commitments to purchase products or services
from various suppliers, mainly for consulting and other service agreements, and
standing orders to purchase reagents and other laboratory supplies. At December
31, 2010, the approximate total future purchase commitments are $92 million, of
which $49 million are expected to be incurred in 2011, $33 million are expected
to be incurred in 2012 through 2013 and the balance thereafter.

Contingent Lease Obligations

The
Company remains subject to contingent obligations under certain real estate
leases that were entered into by certain predecessor companies of a subsidiary
prior to the Company’s acquisition of the subsidiary. While over the course of
many years, the title to the properties and interest in the subject leases have
been transferred to third parties and the subject leases have been amended
several times by such third parties, the lessors have not formally released the
subsidiary predecessor companies from their original obligations under the
leases and therefore remain contingently liable in the event of default. The
remaining terms of the lease obligations and the Company’s corresponding
indemnifications range from 13 to 37 years. The lease payments under certain
leases are subject to market value adjustments and contingent rental payments
and therefore, the total contingent obligations

F-31

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

under the
leases cannot be precisely determined but are likely to total several hundred
million dollars. A claim against the Company would be made only upon the
current lessee’s default and after a series of claims and corresponding
defaults by third parties that precede the Company in the order of liability.
The Company also has certain indemnification rights from other parties to
recover losses in the event of default on the lease obligations. The Company
believes that the likelihood of its performance under these contingent
obligations is remote and no liability has been recorded for any potential
payments under the contingent lease obligations.

Legal
Matters

The
Company is involved in various legal proceedings. Some of the proceedings
against the Company involve claims that are substantial in amount.

In
2006 and 2008, the Company and several of its subsidiaries received subpoenas
from the California Attorney General’s Office seeking documents relating to the
Company’s billings to MediCal, the California Medicaid program. The Company
cooperated with the government’s requests. Subsequently, the State of
California intervened as plaintiff in a civil lawsuit, California ex rel.
Hunter Laboratories, LLC v. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, et al. (the
“California Lawsuit”), filed in California Superior Court against a number of
clinical laboratories, including the Company and several of its subsidiaries.
The complaint was originally filed by a competitor laboratory in California
under the whistleblower provisions of the California False Claims Act. The
complaint was unsealed on March 20, 2009.

The
complaint alleges that, among other things, the Company overcharged MediCal for
testing services and violated the California False Claims Act. Violations of
this statute and related regulations could lead to an injunction, fines or
penalties, and exclusion from MediCal, as well as claims by third parties.

In
the third quarter of 2010, the California Department of Health Care Services
(the “Department”) conducted an audit of the Company’s billing to MediCal. The
Department contends that the Company’s billings are not consistent with
applicable California regulations, as currently interpreted by the Department.
While the Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with
California requirements applicable to billing for clinical laboratory testing,
the Company entered into an interim agreement under which it has agreed to temporarily
suspend billing MediCal for a period of up to six months through March 1, 2011,
during which it continues to provide services. If the California Lawsuit is not
resolved by March 1, 2011, the Company and the Department have agreed to
negotiate in good faith the terms of a further agreement. The Company has
continued to recognize revenue from MediCal for services provided in accordance
with its interpretation of California regulations related to billing for
clinical laboratory testing. An unfavorable outcome of the California Lawsuit
could, among other consequences noted above, result in reduced reimbursement
from the MediCal program. Revenue from the MediCal program in 2010 was
approximately $66 million. At December 31, 2010, amounts due from MediCal totaled
approximately $25 million, including those amounts related to services
performed during the temporary suspension of billing under the interim
agreement described above.

The
Company has been engaged in discussions in an attempt to resolve the matters
described above. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company reached an
understanding, which was highly conditioned, to settle these matters pursuant
to which the Company would pay $241 million. Conditions included, but were not
limited to, reaching an agreement regarding the manner in which the Company’s
future billings would be treated by the Department. However, as of this date,
the Company has been unable to reach an agreement to settle these matters, and
no assurance can be given that an agreement will be reached. If the Company
cannot resolve these matters through these discussions, it will continue to
vigorously defend itself, and will pursue any available collateral actions to
enforce its rights, if necessary. Based on the current facts and circumstances,
a liability, if any, is not determinable at this time. Although management does
not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of such matters will have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, the outcome may be material
to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
impact of such matters is determined or paid.

In
2005, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Office of Inspector General, seeking business records
including records regarding the Company’s relationship with health maintenance
organizations, independent physician associations, group purchasing
organizations, and preferred provider

F-32

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

organizations
relating back to 1995. The Company has cooperated with the investigation.
Subsequently, in November 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York partially unsealed a civil complaint, U.S. ex rel. Fair
Laboratory Practices Associates v. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, filed
against the Company under the whistleblower provisions of the federal False
Claims Act. The complaint alleges, among other things, violations of the
federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act in connection
with the Company’s pricing of laboratory services. The complaint seeks damages
for alleged false claims associated with laboratory tests reimbursed by
government payors, treble damages and civil penalties.

In
June 2009, a shareholder plaintiff filed a purported derivative action in the
Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris County, on behalf of the Company against
certain present and former directors and officers of the Company based on,
among other things, their alleged breaches of fiduciary duties in connection
with the manufacture, marketing, sale and billing related to certain test kits
manufactured by NID. The complaint includes claims for, among other things,
breach of fiduciary duty and waste of corporate assets and seeks, among other
things, damages and remission of compensation received by the individual
defendants. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on June 30, 2010.
    The motion was granted, and the time for an appeal has expired.

In
April 2010, a putative class action was filed against the Company and NID in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York on behalf of
entities that allegedly purchased or paid for certain of NID’s test kits. The
complaint alleges that certain of NID’s test kits were defective and that
defendants, among other things, violated RICO and state consumer protection
laws. The complaint alleges an unspecified amount of damages.

In
August 2010, a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Superior Court of
New Jersey, Morris County, on behalf of the Company against the directors and
certain present officers of the Company. The complaint alleges that the
defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with, among other
things, alleged overcharges by the Company to MediCal for testing services, and
seeks unspecified compensatory damages and equitable relief.

In
November 2010, a putative class action was filed against the Company and
certain present and former officers of the Company in the Superior Court of New
Jersey, Essex County, on behalf of the Company’s sales people nationwide who
were over forty years old and who either resigned or were terminated after
being placed on a performance improvement plan. The complaint alleges that the
defendants’ conduct violates the New Jersey Law Against Discrimination, and
seeks, among other things, unspecified damages. The defendants removed the
complaint to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.

In
addition, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries have received subpoenas
from state agencies in five states and from the Office of Inspector General
of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services which seek documents
relating to the Company’s billing practices. The Company is cooperating with
the requests.

The
federal or state governments may bring claims based on new theories as to the
Company’s practices which management believes to be in compliance with law.
In addition, certain federal and state statutes, including the qui tam provisions
of the federal False Claims Act, allow private individuals to bring lawsuits
against healthcare companies on behalf of government or private payers. The
Company is aware of certain pending individual or class action lawsuits, and
has received several subpoenas, related to billing practices filed under the
qui tam provisions of the Civil False Claims Act and/or other federal and state
statutes, regulations or other laws. The Company understands that there may be
other pending qui tam claims brought by former employees or other “whistleblowers” as
to which the Company cannot determine the extent of any potential liability.

Several
of these matters are in their early stages of development and involve
responding to and cooperating with various government investigations and
related subpoenas. While the Company believes that at least a reasonable
possibility exists that losses may have been incurred, based on the nature and
status of the investigations, the losses are either currently not probable or a
range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated.

Management
has established reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles for the matters discussed above. Such reserves totaled approximately
$10 million as of December 31, 2010. Management cannot predict the outcome of
such matters. Although management does not anticipate that the ultimate outcome
of such matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition, the outcome may be material to the Company’s results of operations
or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined
or paid.

F-33

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

As
a general matter, providers of clinical testing services may be subject to
lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. These suits could
involve claims for substantial damages. Any professional liability litigation
could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s client base and reputation.
The Company maintains various liability insurance coverages for, among other
things, claims that could result from providing, or failing to provide,
clinical testing services, including inaccurate testing results, and other
exposures. The Company’s insurance coverage limits its maximum exposure on
individual claims; however, the Company is essentially self-insured for a significant
portion of these claims. Reserves for such matters, including those associated
with both asserted and incurred but not reported claims, are established by
considering actuarially determined losses based upon the Company’s historical
and projected loss experience. Such reserves totaled approximately $130 million
and $135 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Management
believes that established reserves and present insurance coverage are
sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures. Management cannot predict
the outcome of any claims made against the Company. Although management does
not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings or claims will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, the
outcome may be material to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in
the period in which the impact of such claims is determined or paid.

16. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

During
the third quarter of 2006, the Company completed its wind down of NID, a test
kit manufacturing subsidiary, and classified the operations of NID as
discontinued operations. Results of operations for NID have been reported as
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations and related disclosures for all periods presented.

During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions with respect to the government’s investigation involving NID and
the Company. Based on the status of settlement discussions, during 2007 the
Company established a reserve, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection
with these claims.

During
the third quarter of 2008, the Company and NID reached an agreement in
principle with the United States Attorney’s Office to settle the federal
government investigation involving NID and the Company regarding NID test kits
and tests performed using those test kits. As a result of the agreement in
principle in 2008, the Company recorded charges of $75 million in discontinued
operations to increase its reserve for the settlement and related matters.

On
April 15, 2009, the Company finalized the resolution of the federal government
investigation related to NID and entered into a final settlement agreement with
the federal government. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company paid $268
million to settle the civil allegations. The Company also entered into a
five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General
for the United States Department of Health and Human Services. In addition, NID
pled guilty to a single count of felony misbranding and paid a $40 million
fine. These second quarter payments totaling $308 million, which had been
previously reserved, were funded out of cash on-hand and available credit
facilities. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company finalized separate
settlement agreements with certain states and paid approximately $6 million,
which had been previously reserved for.

Summarized
financial information for the discontinued operations of NID is set forth
below:

The
remaining balance sheet information related to NID was not material at December
31, 2010 and 2009.

F-34

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

17. BUSINESS SEGMENT
INFORMATION

Clinical
testing is an essential element in the delivery of healthcare services.
Physicians use clinical tests to assist in the detection, diagnosis,
evaluation, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions.
Clinical testing is generally categorized as clinical laboratory testing and
anatomic pathology services. Clinical laboratory testing is generally performed
on whole blood, serum, plasma and other body fluids, such as urine, and
specimens such as microbiology samples. Anatomic pathology services are
principally for the detection of cancer and are performed on tissues, such as
biopsies, and other samples, such as human cells. Customers of the clinical
testing business include patients, physicians, hospitals, employers,
governmental institutions and other commercial clinical laboratories. The
clinical testing business accounted for greater than 90% of net revenues from
continuing operations in 2010, 2009 and 2008.

All
other operating segments include the Company’s non-clinical testing businesses
and consist of its risk assessment services, clinical trials testing,
healthcare information technology, and diagnostics products businesses. The
Company’s risk assessment services business provides underwriting support
services to the life insurance industry including teleunderwriting, specimen
collection and paramedical examinations, laboratory testing, medical record
retrieval, case management, motor vehicle reports, telephone inspections,
prescription histories and credit checks. The Company’s clinical trials testing
business provides clinical testing performed in connection with clinical
research trials on new drugs, vaccines and certain medical devices. The
Company’s healthcare information technology business is a developer and
integrator of clinical connectivity and data management solutions for
healthcare organizations, physicians and clinicians that can help improve
patient care and medical practice. The Company’s diagnostics products business
manufactures and markets products that enable healthcare professionals to make
healthcare diagnoses, including products for point-of-care testing for the
professional market.

On
April 19, 2006, the Company decided to discontinue NID’s operations and results
of operations for NID have been classified as discontinued operations for all
years presented (see Note 16).

At
December 31, 2010, substantially all of the Company’s services are provided
within the United States, and substantially all of the Company’s assets are
located within the United States.

The
following table is a summary of segment information for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Segment asset information is not presented
since it is not used by the chief operating decision maker at the operating
segment level. Operating earnings (loss) of each segment represents net
revenues less directly identifiable expenses to arrive at operating income for
the segment. General management and administrative corporate expenses,
including amortization of intangible assets, are included in general corporate
expenses below. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
of the Company as set forth in Note 2.

F-35

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

18. SUBSEQUENT
 EVENTS

In
January 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized $750 million of
additional share repurchases, bringing the total available under the share
repurchase authorizations, which have no set expiration or termination date, to
$1 billion.

On
January 31, 2011, the Company agreed to repurchase from SB Holdings Capital Inc.,
    an affiliate of GSK, approximately one-half of GSK’s ownership interest
    in the Company, or 15.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock
    at a purchase price of $54.30 per share for $835 million (the “Repurchase”).
    The Company funded the Repurchase, which closed on February 4, 2011, with
    $260 million of cash on-hand, $500 million of borrowings under its Secured
    Receivables Credit Facility and $75 million of borrowings under its Credit
    Facility. Subsequent to the Repurchase, the Company’s remaining share
    repurchase authorization totaled $165 million.

F-36

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

In
    a separate transaction on
January 31, 2011, GSK agreed to sell in an underwritten offering to the public,
its remaining ownership interest in the Company, or 15.4 million shares of the
Company’s
common stock (the “Offering”).
The Company did not sell any shares of common stock in the Offering, which closed
on February 4, 2011, and did not receive any of the proceeds. Subsequent to the
Repurchase and the Offering, GSK no longer beneficially owns any shares of
Quest Diagnostics common stock.

19. SUMMARIZED
 FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The
Company’s Senior Notes due 2011, Senior Notes due 2015, Senior Notes due 2017,
Senior Notes due 2020, Senior Notes due 2037 and Senior Notes due 2040 are
fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by the Subsidiary
Guarantors. With the exception of Quest Diagnostics Receivables Incorporated
(see paragraph below), the non-guarantor subsidiaries are primarily foreign and
less than wholly-owned subsidiaries.

In
conjunction with the Company’s Secured Receivables Credit Facility, the Company
maintains a wholly-owned non-guarantor subsidiary, Quest Diagnostics
Receivables Incorporated (“QDRI”). The Company and certain of its Subsidiary
Guarantors transfer certain domestic receivables to QDRI. QDRI utilizes the
transferred receivables to collateralize borrowings under the Company’s Secured
Receivables Credit Facility. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors provide
collection services to QDRI. QDRI uses cash collections principally to purchase
new receivables from the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.

The
following condensed consolidating financial data illustrates the composition of
the combined guarantors. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the
parent using the equity method for purposes of the supplemental consolidating
presentation. Earnings (losses) of subsidiaries are therefore reflected in the
parent’s investment accounts and earnings. The principal elimination entries
relate to investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions.

F-37

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-38

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-39

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-40

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-41

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-42

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-43

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED

(dollars in thousands unless otherwise indicated)

F-44

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

Q

u

arterly Operating
Results (unaudited)

(in thousands, except per share data)

F-45

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

Quarterly Operating
Results (unaudited) – Continued

(in thousands, except per share data)

F-46

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED AND
SUBSIDIARIES

S

C

HEDULE
II - VALUATION ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

(in thousands)

(a)

Primarily
 represents the write-off of accounts receivable, net of recoveries.

F-47

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010

Commission File No. 001-12215

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED

E-1

E-2

E-3

E-4

E-5

E-6