
10-K


                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                        Washington, D.C. 20549

                              FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
             For the fiscal year ended January 31, 1997
                                  OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

     For the transition period from               to 

                   Commission file number  0-94

                        LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC.
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              NORTH CAROLINA                      56-0578072
    (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)          identification No.)

      P. 0. BOX 1111, NORTH WILKESBORO, N.C.           28656-0001
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (910) 658-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

              Title of Each Class        Name of Each Exchange on
                                         Which Registered
          Common Stock $.50 Par Value    New York Stock Exchange
                                         Pacific Stock Exchange
                                         The Stock Exchange (London)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such report(s), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes x , No   .

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ] 

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the registrant as of April 4, 1997:   
$5,463,773,846.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes 
of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

Class:  COMMON STOCK, $.50 PAR VALUE, Outstanding at April 4, 1997:  
173,382,339 shares.

                   Documents Incorporated by Reference
Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 31, 1997: 
Parts I and II. With the exception of specifically referenced information, the 
Annual Report to Security Holders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1997 
is not to be deemed filed as part of this report. Proxy Statement for Annual 
Meeting filed April 11, 1997:  Part III.


                                    Part I

Item 1 - Business

       Reference is made to "Lowe's Profile" and table on the inside back 
       cover and to pages 1, 2, 3, 12 and 13 of the Annual Report to Security
       Holders for fiscal year ended January 31, 1997.


Item 2 -  Properties

       At January 31, 1997, the Company operated 402 stores with a total of 
       30.4 million square feet of selling space. The current prototype large 
       store is a 100,000 square foot sales floor unit for smaller markets and 
       a 114,000 square foot sales floor unit for medium and larger markets, 
       each with a lawn and garden center comprising approximately 34,000 
       additional square feet.  The Company also operates five distribution 
       centers and twelve smaller support facilities, four of which are reload 
       centers only for lumber and building commodities.

       Reference is also made to the map and table on the inside back cover 
       and to notes 1, 4, 6 and 13 on pages 28, 29, 30 and 35 of the Annual 
       Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 31, 1997.

Item 3 -  Legal Proceedings

       Reference is made to Note 14 on page 35 of the Annual Report to 
       Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 31, 1997.

Item 4 -  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

       Not applicable.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is 
included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report in lieu of being 
included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be 
held on May 30, 1997.

The following is a list of names and ages of all of the executive officers of 
the registrant indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held 
by each such person and each person's principal occupations or employment 
during the past five years.


Robert L. Tillman, 53
     President and Chief Executive Officer since 1996;  Senior Executive Vice 
     President and Chief Operating Officer, 1994 - 1996;  Executive Vice 
     President, Merchandising, 1991-1994;  Senior Vice President, 
     Merchandising, 1989-1991.

Robert L. Strickland, 66
     Chairman of the Board since 1978.


Gregory M Bridgeford, 42
Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager since 1996; Vice 
President and General Merchandise Manager, 1994 - 1996; Vice President, 
Merchandising, 1989 - 1994.

Richard D. Elledge, 55
     Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since 1996; Vice 
     President and Chief Accounting Officer, 1981 - 1996;  Assistant Secretary 
     since 1991.

Lee Herring, 43
     Senior Vice President, Logistics since 1996; Vice President, Logistics, 
     1993 - 1996;  Vice President, Merchandising, 1985 - 1993.

William L. Irons, 53
     Senior Vice President, Management Information Services since 1992;  
     Partner, Ernst & Young, 1987 - 1992.

W. Cliff Oxford, 45
     Senior Vice President, Corporate and Human Development since 1996;  
     Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations, 1994 - 1996;  Vice President, 
     Corporate Relations, 1984 - 1994.

Dale C. Pond, 51
     Senior Vice President, Marketing since 1993; Senior Vice President, 
     Marketing and New Business Development, Home Quarters Warehouse, Inc., 
     1991 - 1993.

David E. Shelton, 50
     Senior Vice President, Real Estate/Engineering and Construction since 
     1997;  Vice President, Store Operations, 1995 - 1997;  Vice President, 
     Sales Operations, 1992 - 1995;  Vice President, Training, 1986 - 1992.

Larry D. Stone, 45
     Executive Vice President, Store Operations since 1996; Senior Vice 
     President, Sales Operations, 1995 - 1996;  Vice President, General 
     Merchandising, 1992 - 1995; Vice President, Store Merchandising, 1989 - 
     1992.

William C. Warden, Jr., 44
     Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer 
     and Secretary since 1996;  Senior Vice President, General Counsel and 
     Secretary, 1993 - 1996;  Assistant Secretary 1985 - 1993;  Partner, 
     McElwee, McElwee & Warden which served as General Counsel for the 
     Company, 1979 - 1993.

Gregory J. Wessling, 45
     Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager since 1996; Vice 
     President and General Merchandise Manager, 1994 - 1996; Vice President, 
     Merchandising, 1989 - 1994.



Thomas E. Whiddon, 44
     Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer since 1996;  Senior 
     Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer, 1995 - 1996 and Senior Vice 
     President and Treasurer, 1994 - 1995, Zale Corporation;  Vice President 
     and Treasurer,  Eckerd Corporation, 1986 - 1994;  Partner, KPMG, Peat 
     Marwick, 1984 - 1986.


                                    Part II

Item 5 -Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Security Holder 
         Matters.

         The principal market for trading in Lowe's common stock is the New 
         York Stock Exchange, Inc. (NYSE). Lowe's common stock is also listed 
         on the Pacific Exchange in the United States and the Stock Exchange 
         in London.  The ticker symbol for Lowe's is LOW.  As of January 31, 
         1997, there were 11,460 holders of record of Lowe's common stock. The 
         table, "Lowe's Quarterly Stock Price Range and Cash Dividend 
         Payment", on page 38 of the Annual Report to Security Holders for 
         fiscal year ended January 31, 1997 sets forth, for the periods 
         indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the common 
         stock as reported by the NYSE Composite Tape, and the dividends per 
         share declared on the common stock during such periods.  The Company 
         is party to certain agreements which may limit its ability to declare 
         dividends under certain circumstances.

         Reference is also made to notes 11 and 12 on pages 33 and 34 of the 
         Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 31, 
         1997.

Item 6 -Selected Financial Data

         Reference is made to page 37 of the Annual Report to Security Holders 
         for fiscal year ended January 31, 1997.

Item 7 -Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
         Results of Operations.

         Reference is made to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
         Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 21 and 22 of 
         the Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 
         31, 1997.

Item 8 -Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         Reference is made to the "Independent Auditors' Report" on page 20 
         and to the financial statements and notes thereto on pages 25 through 
         36, and to the "Selected Quarterly Data" on page 37 of the Annual 
         Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended January 31, 1997.

Item 9 - Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

         Not applicable.


                                    Part III

Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

          Reference is made to "Lowe's Board of Directors" on pages 18 and 19 
          of the Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended 
          January 31, 1997, and to Part I - Executive Officers of the 
          Registrant.

Item 11 - Executive Compensation

          Reference is made to "Compensation of Executive Officers", 
          "Option/SAR Grants in Last Fiscal Year", "Aggregated Option/SAR 
          Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-end Option/SAR 
          Values", and "Long-term Incentive Plans - Awards in Last Fiscal 
          Year" included in the definitive Proxy Statement which was filed, 
          pursuant to regulation 14A with the SEC on April 11, 1997, and which 
          sections are hereby incorporated by reference.

          The Company's Executive Compensation Program is comprised of the 
          following elements:

Base Salary

      Salaries for Executive Officers are established on the basis of the 
qualifications and experience of the executive, the nature of the job 
responsibilities and salaries for competitive positions in the retailing 
industry.

      Executive Officers' base salaries are reviewed annually and are approved 
by the Committee.  Salaries of Executive Officers are compared with those of 
comparable executive positions in the retailing industry throughout the United 
States.  The Committee uses the median level of base salary as a guideline, in 
conjunction with the executive's performance and qualifications, for 
establishing salary levels.

1994 Incentive Plan

      The 1994 Incentive Plan was adopted to attract, motivate, retain and 
reward the executives whose leadership and performance are critical to the 
Company's success in enhancing shareholder value, to place further emphasis on 
executive ownership of Company Stock and to assure deductibility of executive 
compensation for federal and state income tax purposes.

      The 1994 Incentive Plan authorizes the grant of stock options.  The 
option price cannot be less than the market price of the Company's Common 
Stock on the date on which the option is granted.  Consequently, stock options 
granted under the 1994 Incentive Plan measure performance and create 
compensation solely on the basis of the appreciation in the price of the 
Company's Common Stock.

      Stock appreciation rights (STARs) also may be granted under the 1994 
Incentive Plan.  STARs entitle the recipient to receive a cash payment based 
on the appreciation in the Company's Common Stock following the date of the 
award and, accordingly, measure performance and create compensation only if 
the price of the Company's Common Stock appreciates.  

      Company Common Stock also may be issued under stock awards pursuant to 
the 1994 Incentive Plan.  All stock awards made through January 31, 1996, were 
performance accelerated restricted stock (PARS) awards which provide that the 
shares are subject to forfeiture and are nontransferable for seven years 
following the award.  Accelerated vesting is permitted if the Company achieves 
certain financial objectives during the three- and five-year periods following 
the award.

      Stock awards made as of January 31, 1997, include both PARS and 
Performance Stock Awards.  The President/Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chairman, and members of the President's staff were granted Performance Stock 
shares.  Other eligible senior and middle managers were granted PARS awards.  
The Performance Share awards are subject to forfeiture and are nontransferable 
unless the Company achieves specific performance objectives at the end of a 
three-year period.  The PARS awards are subject to forfeiture and are 
nontransferable for five years following the award.  Accelerated vesting is 
permitted if the Company achieves certain financial objectives during the 
three- and four-year periods following the award.

      The Management Bonus Program is the final component of the 1994 
Incentive Plan.  The Management Bonus Program provides bonus opportunities 
which can be earned upon achievement by the Company of preset annual financial 
goals.  No bonuses are paid if performance is below the threshold level of 
corporate profitability.  Additional bonus amounts are earned on a 
proportionate scale up to 100% of the stated bonus opportunity if the preset 
financial goals are met.  Maximum bonuses were paid for the year ended January 
31, 1995, because the Company's financial results exceeded the preset 
performance goals.  A partial bonus equal to 25.669% of the basic bonus 
opportunity was paid for the year ended January 31, 1996, because financial 
results exceeded the minimum performance threshold but were below the goals 
established for full bonus payment.  Maximum bonuses were again paid for the 
year ended January 31, 1997, because the Company's financial performance 
exceeded the preset performance goals.

Proposed 1997 Incentive Plan

      The 1997 Incentive Plan was approved by the Compensation Committee and 
the Company's Board of Directors on December 6, 1996, and is submitted for 
shareholder approval.  The purpose of the 1997 Incentive Plan is to provide 
authorized shares to continue the objectives of the 1994 Incentive Plan:  to 
attract, motivate, retain, and reward the executives whose leadership and 
performance are critical to the Company's success in enhancing shareholder 
value, to place further emphasis on executive ownership of Company Stock, and 
to assure deductibility of executive compensation for federal and state income 
tax purposes.

Benefit Restoration Plan

      The Benefit Restoration Plan was adopted by the Company in May 1990, to 
provide qualifying executives with benefits equivalent to those received by 
all other employees under the Company's basic qualified employee retirement 
plans.  Qualifying executives are those executives whose annual additions and 
other benefits, as normally provided to all participants under those qualified 
plans, would be curtailed by  Internal Revenue Code restrictions, and who are 
selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.  The Benefit Restoration 
Plan benefits are determined annually.  Participating executives may elect 
annually to defer benefits or to receive a current cash payment.

Other Compensation

      The Company's Executive Officers participate in the various qualified 
and non-qualified employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company.  The 
Company makes only nominal use of perquisites in compensating its Executive 
Officers.


Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

          Reference is made to "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial 
          Owners and Management" included in the definitive Proxy Statement 
          which was filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with the SEC on April 
          11,1997, and is hereby incorporated by reference.



Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

          Reference is made to "Information About the Board of Directors and 
          Committees of the Board", "Certain Relationships and Related 
          Transactions" included in the definitive Proxy Statement which was 
          filed, pursuant to regulation 14A, with the SEC on April 11,1997, 
          and is hereby incorporated by reference.


                                    Part IV

Item 14 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

      a)  1. Financial Statements
             Reference is made to the following items and page numbers 
             appearing in the Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal 
             year ended January 31, 1997:

                                      Pages
             Independent Auditors' Report                                   20

             Consolidated Statements of Current and Retained Earnings 
             for each of the fiscal years in the three year period 
             ended January 31, 1997                                         25

             Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 1997, 
             1996 and 1995                                                  26

             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the
             fiscal years in the three-year period ended
             January 31, 1997                                               27

             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for each
             of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended
             January 31, 1997                                            28-36

      a)  2. Financial Statement Schedules

             Schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under 
             which they are required or because information required is 
             included in financial statements or the notes thereto.



                                    Part IV

      a)  3. Exhibits

             (3.1)  Restated and Amended Charter (filed as exhibit 3(a) to the 
                    Company's Form 8-K dated July 5, 1994 and incorporated by 
                    reference herein).

             (3.2)  Bylaws, as amended.

             (4.1)  Rights Agreement dated as of September 9, 1988 between the 
                    Company and Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., N.A., as Rights 
                    Agent (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K 
                    dated September 9, 1988 and incorporated by reference 
                    herein).

            (10.1)  Lowe's Companies, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan (filed as 
                    Exhibit C to the Company's Proxy Statement dated May 31, 
                    1985 and incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.2)  Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Lowe's Companies, Inc. 
                    1985 Stock Option Plan (filed on the Company's Form S-8 
                    dated June 23, 1987 (No. 33-2618) and incorporated by 
                    reference herein).

            (10.3)  Lowe's Companies, Inc. 1989 Non-Employee Directors' Stock 
                    Option Plan (filed as Exhibit A to the Company's Proxy 
                    Statement dated June 9, 1989 and incorporated by reference 
                    herein).

            (10.4)  Lowe's Companies, Inc. 1990 Benefit Restoration Plan 
                    (filed  as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Annual Report on 
                    Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 1991, and 
                    incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.5)  Lowe's Companies, Inc. Stock Appreciation Incentive Plan 
                    (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Annual Report on 
                    Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 1992, and 
                    incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.6)  Indenture dated April 15, 1992 between the Company and 
                    Chemical Bank, as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the 
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-
                    47269) and incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.7)  Indenture dated July 22, 1994 between the Company and 
                    Wachovia Bank of North Carolina, N.A., as Trustee (filed 
                    as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on 
                    Form S-3 (No. 33-64560) and incorporated by reference 
                    herein).

            (10.8)  Form of Indenture between the Company and Chemical Bank, 
                    as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's 
                    Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-51865) and 
                    incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.9)  Form of Indenture between the Company and Wachovia Bank of 
                    North Carolina, N.A., as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to 
                    the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-
                    51865) and incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.10) Lowe's Companies, Inc. Director's Stock Incentive Plan 
                    (filed on the Company's Form S-8 dated July 8, 1994 (No. 
                    33-54497) and incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.11) Lowe's Companies, Inc. 1994 Incentive Plan (filed on the 
                    Company's Form S-8 dated July 8, 1994 (No. 33-54499) and 
                    incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.12) Release and Separation Agreement dated November 9, 1995, 
                    between the Company and Harry B. Underwood II (filed as 
                    Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
                    for the period ended October 31, 1995, and incorporated by 
                    reference herein).

            (10.13) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated as of December 1, 
                    1995, between the Company and First National Bank of 
                    Chicago, as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1 on Form 8-K 
                    dated December 15, 1995, and incorporated by reference 
                    herein).

            (10.14) Form of the Company's 6 3/8 % Senior Note due December 15, 
                    2005 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 on Form 8-K dated December 15, 
                    1995, and incorporated by reference herein).

            (10.15) Form of Subordinated Indenture between the Company and The 
                    Bank of New York, Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the 
                    Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-
                    14257) and incorporated by reference herein).

             (11)   Computation of per share earnings.

             (12)   Statement re computation of ratios

             (13)   Annual Report to Security Holders for fiscal year ended 
                    January 31, 1997.

             (21)   List of Subsidiaries.

             (23)   Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP

             (27)   Financial Data Schedule

b)   Reports on Form 8-K

     There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the registrant during the last 
     quarter of the period covered by this report.




                                    Part IV

SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                               /s/ Lowe's Companies, Inc.
                                                   Lowe's Companies, Inc.

     April 25, 1997             By              /s/ Robert L. Tillman
                                                    Robert L. Tillman
         Date                               President, Chief Executive Officer
                                                      and Director

     April 25, 1997              By:            /s/ Thomas E. Whiddon
         Date                                       Thomas E. Whiddon
                                                 Executive Vice President
                                                and Chief Financial Officer

     April 25, 1997              By:            /s/ Richard D. Elledge
         Date                                       Richard D. Elledge
                                                   Senior Vice President,
                                                and Chief Accounting Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

    
                             Chairman of the Board of
  /s/ Robert L. Strickland    Directors and Director             4/25/97 
      Robert L. Strickland                                        Date
                                                                      
                            President, Chief Executive
  /s/ Robert L. Tillman        Officer and Director              4/25/97
      Robert L. Tillman                                           Date

                                                                        
                                     Director                           
      William A. Andres                                           Date

  /s/ John M. Belk                   Director                    4/25/97
      John M. Belk                                                Date

  /s/ Carol A. Farmer                Director                    4/25/97
      Carol A. Farmer                                             Date

  /s/ Paul Fulton                    Director                    4/25/97
      Paul Fulton                                                  Date

                                     Director                            
      James F. Halpin                                              Date

  /s/ Leonard G. Herring             Director                    4/25/97
      Leonard G. Herring                                           Date

  /s/ Petro Kulynych                 Director                    4/25/97
      Petro Kulynych                                               Date

                                     Director
      Russell B. Long                                              Date

  /s/ Claudine B. Malone             Director                     4/25/97
      Claudine Malone                                              Date

  /s/ Robert G. Schwartz             Director                     4/25/97
      Robert G. Schwartz                                           Date



