10-K


lowesform10k01282005.htm

LOWE'S FORM 10-K 1-28-2005

Lowe's Form 10-K 1-28-2005

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

(Mark
One)

Commission
file number

1-7898

LOWE'S

COMPANIES, 
      INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
    charter)

NORTH CAROLINA

56-0578072

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
      organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification
No.)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title
      of each class

Name
      of each exchange on which registered

Common
      Stock, $.50 Par Value

New
      York Stock Exchange (NYSE)

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

x

Yes

o

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

x

Yes

o

No

The
aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant as of July 30, 2004, the last business day of the Company's most
recent second quarter, was $33.2 billion.

The
number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock, $.50 Par Value,
as of April 1, 2005 was 774,421,813.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
      of Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders

Parts
      I, II and IV

Portions
      of the Proxy Statement for Lowe’s 2005 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders

Parts
      I and II


Part
I

Item
1 - Business

Lowe’s
Companies, Inc.: General Information

Lowe’s
Companies, Inc. is a

Fortune
50 company and

the
world’s second largest home improvement retailer, with specific emphasis on
retail do-it-yourself (DIY) customers, do-it-for-me (DIFM) customers who utilize
our installation services, and Commercial Business Customers. We offer a
complete line of products and services for home decorating, maintenance, repair,
remodeling, and maintenance of commercial buildings. As of January 28, 2005, we
operated 1,087 stores in 48 states, with 124 million square feet of retail
selling space. In 2004, we were named Energy Star Retailer of the Year for the
third consecutive year.

Incorporated
in North Carolina in 1952, Lowe’s Companies, Inc. has been publicly held since
1961. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange-ticker symbol
“LOW.”

See Item
6, “Selected Financial Data” for historical data of revenues, profits and
identifiable assets.

Who
We Serve

We serve
both retail and Commercial Business Customers. Retail customers primarily
consist of DIY homeowners, those taking advantage of our installed sales
programs, and others buying for personal and family use. Commercial Business
Customers include repair and remodeling contractors, electricians, landscapers,
painters, plumbers, and commercial and residential building maintenance
professionals, among others.

To meet
our customers’ varying needs, we combine merchandise, sales and service in
categories that are relevant to them. Our stores feature a home fashions and
interior design center; a lawn and garden center; an appliance center; an
outdoor power equipment center; an outdoor grill and patio furniture specialty
shop; a hardware store; an air conditioning, heating, plumbing and electrical
supply center; a lumber yard; and building materials center.

Our
Stores

New
Store Expansion

Our
expansion strategy led to the opening of 140 new stores in fiscal 2004 that
included two prototypes:

a
116,000-square-foot (116K) store for large markets and a 94,000-square-foot
(94K) store to serve smaller markets. In 2005, we estimate that approximately
80% of our growth will be comprised of 116K stores in larger markets and the
remaining 20% of our growth will be comprised of 94K stores in smaller markets.

Investments
in Existing Stores

In
response to customer feedback, during fiscal 2004 we continued our long history
of investing in our existing stores to create a more inviting shopping
experience for our retail and Commercial Business Customers. This included
brightening our stores, making wider aisles, adding new displays, improving
point of sale signage, and adding more product selection. Listed below is how we
categorize our investments in our existing stores.


Minor
Resets

Minor
resets are necessary to drive comparable store sales increases and keep our
stores fresh with new and innovative products. These resets involve the simple
replacement of a particular product or vendor and do not require major changes
in the store. We conducted hundreds of minor resets in 2004 efficiently and cost
effectively.

Major
Resets

A major
reset is designed to make an area of our store more shoppable for our customers
or to improve adjacencies within a store. In 2004, a major reset was implemented
in Tool World and is now complete in over 700 stores. The new Tool World is much
more shoppable with wider aisles and our new, improved open floor plan. Both
DIYers and Commercial Business Customers can find what they need more quickly.

Remerchandising

In 2004,
we completed the remerchandising of over 130

of our
older stores, bringing them up to speed with our most current prototypes. This
remerchandising focused on moving entire departments, improving adjacencies, and
enhancing the shoppability within the cabinetry, appliances, flooring, and
millwork departments. We were able to remerchandise these stores with only
minimal disruption to our customers.

Investments
like these are made to differentiate our stores from the competition and better
enable them to deliver the sales performance we expect.

Serving
Our Customers

When
customers enter our stores, our goal is to make their experience as pleasant and
productive as possible. Through specialty sales initiatives such as installation
and purchase advantages like Everyday Low Prices, we believe we make home
improvement more attainable and affordable.

Installed
Sales

Recognizing
that our customers lead busy lives and may not have time to install certain
components of their home improvement project, we significantly enhanced our
Installed Sales model in 2004. It has proven to be a successful service
initiative with an expected growth rate of approximately twice the rate of total
company sales growth. We now offer installation services in over 40 categories
with

flooring,
millwork and kitchen cabinets/countertops generating the highest sales. Under
the new model, the separation of selling and administrative tasks allows our
sales associates to shift their focus to project selling, while project managers
ensure that the details related to an installation job are efficiently
executed.

Special
Order Sales (SOS)

Our
special order product offering provides our customers the opportunity to select
unique and expressive products beyond the 40,000 we carry in our stores. We are
making the SOS process easier for our customers by enhancing ordering systems
storewide, providing easy-to-use customer interfaces, integrated design tools,
and electronic product catalogs.

Special
order kiosks are available in departments such as appliances, walls &
windows, fashion lighting, millwork, hardware, seasonal living, fashion plumbing
and tools for special product ordering in addition to what is made available on
Lowes.com.

Whether
t

hese
kiosks are electronic or

literature-

based,
all facilitate the ability of the customer to special order.

Our SOS
Express initiative in fashion plumbing is an example where advances in
technology have improved the product selection process, order entry, and lead
times, all of which make the special order process much more customer-friendly.
A customer can work with a sales associate to build what they want. A centrally
located distribution center ensures that the order is delivered quickly, with
overnight or two-day delivery for most items. We are excited about the
opportunity to roll this integrated process out to other categories in the near
future.

Commercial
Business Customer Initiatives

We
continue to improve service to our Commercial Business Customers on many
different fronts. Because time is money for this important customer base, we
gear our selection and services so that they can find what they want when they
want it. For example, we carry contractor packs, which are in-stock, economical
bundles of the items Commercial Business Customers use most. Commercial Business
Customers can phone or fax their order and it will be ready for pickup the same
day or the next day. For added convenience, we can deliver to job sites, seven
days a week in most areas. LowesForPros.com features articles, job estimate
forms, e-newsletters, statistics and other vital information that Commercial
Business Customers can use in their business.


Credit
Financing

We offer
two proprietary credit cards: one for individual retail customers and the other
for Commercial Business Customers. We also offer a co-branded Visa® credit card
to selected customers through direct mail offers. Our Commercial Business
Customers can also make purchases by using our specialized credit vehicles. In
addition, we accept Visa

®

,
MasterCard®, Discover® and American Express® credit cards, as well as debit
cards.

Everyday
Low Prices

Our
customers do not have to wait for a sale to find a great value. We offer low
prices every day. Our promise to our customers is that if they find a lower
everyday or advertised price on an identical stock product at a local
competitor, we will not only match that price, but we will beat it by 10
percent.

Self-Checkout

To meet
customer expectations for convenience at all levels of the shopping experience,
we tested self-checkout in some of our stores. All product types and quantities
are permitted, most tender types are accepted and customer interface is
bilingual.

Our
Products

A typical
Lowe's home improvement store stocks more than 40,000 items,

with
hundreds of thousands of

items
available through our Special Order Sales system. Each store carries a wide
selection of national brand name merchandise such as Whirlpool®, KitchenAid®,
Pella®, Werner®, Kohler®, DeWalt®, Troy-Bilt®, Jenn-Air®,

ClosetMaid

®

and
many

more.
Our merchandise selection provides the DIY retail, DIFM and Commercial Business
Customer with every item they need to complete home improvement, repair,
maintenance or construction projects. See page 43 of Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report
to Shareholders for the table summarizing sales by product category for each of
the last three fiscal years.

Lowe’s
Exclusives

Our
customers have high standards when it comes to product and brand mix. To further
enhance their selection, we carry many brands that are exclusive to Lowe’s.
These unique brands cover several categories like paint, lighting, tools,
outdoor power equipment,

flooring
and more, and

give our
customers superior performance and results. Exclusive brand names such as
Troy-Bilt®, American Tradition®, STAINMASTER® Premier Living™, Kobalt™,
Portfolio®, Harbor Breeze®, and Top-Choice™ Lumber are synonymous only with
Lowe’s.

We
continue to cultivate and execute vendor alliance partnerships in an effort to
enhance our market share where such partnerships are advantageous to the
customer, our company and our vendors. We are also concentrating on the
electronic exchange of item and order information with our vendors, improving
data integrity and reducing errors, leading to fewer returns and order changes.

Global
Sourcing

Excluding
Installed Sales vendors, we source our products from approximately 8,000
merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single vendor accounting for more than
five percent of total purchases. To the extent possible, our Global Sourcing
Division purchases directly from foreign manufacturers, avoiding third-party
importers. Management believes that alternative and competitive suppliers are
available for virtually all its products, further increasing opportunities for
product quality and gross margin improvement.

Regional
Distribution Centers (RDC)

In order
to maintain appropriate inventory levels in stores and to improve distribution
efficiencies, we own and operate 10, highly automated RDCs. The RDCs are
strategically located in North Carolina (2), Georgia (1), Indiana (1),
Pennsylvania (1), Texas (1), California (1), Ohio (1), Florida (1) and Wyoming
(1). Each RDC is capable of serving approximately 120 to 140 of our stores. We
also began shipping from an additional RDC in Connecticut in February 2005. Over
fifty percent of the merchandise we purchase is shipped through our distribution
facilities, while the remaining portion is shipped directly to stores from
vendors. As a part of our Rapid Response Replenishment (R3) initiative, we are
increasing the shipments of product through our RDC network and increasing the
frequency of RDC deliveries to our stores. As a part of the R3 initiative we
will be able to move safety stock out of our stores and into our RDC network. By
increasing the number of shipments to each store from our RDCs and reducing
vendor-direct deliveries, we will be able to quickly and efficiently flow
product to stores in the quantities necessary to support sales demand.

We own
and operate 10 flatbed distribution centers to distribute merchandise that
requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber,
boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building
materials. We also operate a facility to handle special order plumbing products.


Reaching
Our Customers

Television,
radio, newspaper, magazine, direct mail, event sponsorships, Internet, community
relations and in-store programs all play a critical role in helping us reach our
customers. Each marketing initiative is based on understanding current and
prospective customers in terms of demographics, needs, expectations, insights
and beliefs, as these relate to home and home improvement. In 2004, we continued
to build on our strong marketing campaign, while launching many new marketing
programs.

Broadcast
- - Television, Radio

We
utilized national television to build brand awareness and positioning. This also
included an investment in Hispanic and African American television. We
supplemented our national broadcast in key markets with local television and
radio. We also continued to foster relationships with several network partners
such as HGTV (Home and Garden Television).

Print
- - Newspaper, Magazine

We
implemented a strong print plan in fiscal 2004 that included national magazine
advertising and ROP (run of press) newspaper ads. Circulars remained a critical
venue for reaching our customers with our Everyday Low Price and wide product
selection.

Direct
to Consumer

In fiscal
2004, we continued to introduce and redefine programs to respond to the changing
needs and lifestyles of consumers. Through innovative database technology, we
create relevant direct mail campaigns based on precise criteria such as purchase
activity, memberships, new home purchase, even the weather

.

Additionally,
an opt-in e-mail program that links up with Lowe’s affinity groups, including
subscribers to our bi-monthly magazine

Creative
Ideas

,® as
well as Woodworkers Club and Garden Club members, fosters an ongoing
relationship with customers even when they are not in a Lowe’s
store.

Gift
Cards

American
consumers have adopted gift cards as a convenient way to make purchases. Lowe’s
gift cards are no exception. In 2004, we introduced themed gift cards tailored
to college/university alumni and sports fans, and the holiday season to address
customers’ desire for convenient purchases. We also established several
business-to-business gift card accounts so that companies can give Lowe’s gift
cards as incentives and rewards. Our gift cards are key sales drivers for
categories such as tools, small appliances and walls/windows.

Internet

Lowes.com
is an information destination for customers all over the United States and the
world. We now have over 1,000 how-to guides and buying guides online to help
customers make smarter, more informed buying decisions and to empower them in
their home improvement projects. A significant launch in 2004 was the online
capability to purchase gift cards. Customers can now send gift cards to anyone
at any time of the year with just a few clicks.

Multi-Cultural
Marketing

We
continued to produce marketing and communications specifically directed toward
Hispanic and African American consumers. Print, direct mail and television are
just a few of the channels through which we communicated with these segments of
the population. To make shopping easier for our Hispanic customers, we also
expanded bi-lingual signage in our stores.

NASCAR®
- - Team Lowe’s Racing

As one of
the world’s fastest growing sports, NASCAR is an important part of our marketing
mix. We are the proud sponsor of the #48 car in the Nextel® Cup Series, the #5
car in the Busch® Series, and Lowe’s Motor Speedway. We also host hospitality
events at various sites throughout the racing season, leveraging and further
building membership in the Team Lowe’s Racing Fan Club.

Community
Outreach

We
believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of the traditional
retail setting. Following are some examples of how we are partnering with
respected organizations to make a difference in communities and in homes across
America.

Habitat
for Humanity

We are a
national partner of Habitat for Humanity International and served as

the

national underwriter for Habitat for Humanity’s Women Build®
program.

We
adopted the mission of “working together, building homes and changing lives.”
The essence of Women Build is to encourage and empower women to build Habitat
for Humanity homes and make home ownership a reality for families in need.


Home
Safety Council

Founded
by Lowe's in 1993, the Home Safety Council is a charitable organization with a
vision of creating safer American homes. In 2004, we, along with our vendors,
helped reach millions of children and families with vital safety
information.

Lowe’s
Heroes

Recognizing
that accidents can and should be prevented, the Lowe's Heroes volunteers tackle
the problem at the local level. Lowe's Heroes teams are made up of employees
from the local store, representatives from nonprofit organizations and concerned
individuals from the community. The teams work with homeowners, community groups
and schools on projects that make their homes and cities safer places to live.

American
Red Cross

When a
natural disaster strikes the community, we are quick to support the recovery
effort with onsite volunteers, product donations and much-needed funds. As a
National Partner with the American Red Cross disaster relief efforts, we (along
with our customers and vendor partners) have contributed millions of dollars to
the organization's recovery programs and responded to more than 150 disasters in
29 states, from hurricanes and tornadoes to earthquakes, wildfires and
floods.

Lowe’s
Charitable and Educational Foundation

Founded
in 1957, the Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) has a long and
proud history of contributing to grassroots community projects. LCEF's primary
philanthropic focus areas include community and public school improvement
projects, safe and affordable housing, and education scholarships for trade
disciplines. LCEF provides funding only to 501(c) (3) organizations in
communities where we operate stores and distribution centers.

Lowe’s
Employee Relief Fund

The
Lowe’s Employee Relief Fund distributes emergency funds to hundreds of employees
each year who face natural disasters or unavoidable financial hardships.
Employee donations to the fund are matched dollar-for-dollar by the company.
 In 2004, assistance was provided to nearly 1,100 employees who suffered
home damage from hurricanes, floods and fires.

Our
Market

W

e
estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $500
billion, $468 billion of which comprises product demand, and $32 billion for the
installed labor opportunity.  Data from a variety of primary and secondary
sources, including trade associations, government publications, industry
participants and other sources was analyzed as the basis for our estimate. This
estimate includes import and export data and key end-use markets, such as
residential repair and remodeling, and nonresidential construction and
maintenance.  This data also captures a wide range of categories relevant
to our business, including appliance and garden supplies.

The home
improvement industry is a large, fragmented and growing market, driven in part
by significant socioeconomic trends.  The increase in the median income of
the “baby boomer” generation, along with their record levels of second-home
ownership and desire for professional installation services are sources of the
expected growth, along with strong housing turnover, and the aging of the
housing stock. In addition, individuals are purchasing their first homes at a
younger age, and there has been an overall increase in consumer interest in home
improvements.  Another source of growth in the home improvement market is
the growing immigrant and minority populations.  Minorities are projected
to contribute at least two-thirds of household growth in coming
decades.

The home
improvement retailing business is highly competitive. We compete with a number
of traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers, as well
as other chains of warehouse home improvement stores and lumberyards in most of
our market areas. In addition, we compete, with respect to some of our products,
with discount stores, mail order firms and warehouse clubs. The principal
competitive factors are customer service, location, price, product and brand
selection, and name recognition.

Information
Systems

We are
continuously assessing and upgrading our information systems in an effort to
support growth, augment new sales initiatives, control costs and enable better
decision-making. During the last several years, we have made a substantial
investment in developing and purchasing new computer systems.


We have a
point-of-sale system, electronic bar code scanning system, various design
systems, and dual UNIX servers in each of our stores. These systems provide the
stores with real-time perpetual inventory information, support all in-store
selling functions, provide labor management functions, and provide support for a
variety of store administrative functions. Store information is communicated to
the customer support center's central computers via a terrestrial based (frame
relay) network with back up being provided by a satellite-based wide area
network. These systems provide customer checkout with automated credit card and
check approval, host a variety of centralized design and specialty order systems
for the stores, provide store-based perpetual inventory information, provide
sales performance reporting, and also ensure that all store sales transactions
are processed accurately. In addition, the systems also provide labor planning
and item movement experience. These computers supply the customer support center
functions with the information needed to support the stores, including
centralized inventory replenishment, financial systems, human resources,
merchandising systems, and product information.

Employees

As of
January 28, 2005, we employed approximately 125,000 full-time and 37,000
part-time employees, none of which are covered by any collective bargaining
agreements. Management considers its relations with its employees to be
good.

Available
Information

Our
internet website address is: www.Lowes.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge
through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Item
2 - Properties

At
January 28, 2005, we operated 1,087 stores in 48 states with a total of 123.7
million square feet of selling space. We currently have two prototype stores, a
116,000-square-foot store for larger markets and a 94,000-square-foot store used
primarily to serve smaller markets. Both prototypes include a lawn and garden
center, averaging an additional 31,000 square feet for 116K locations and 26,000
square feet for 94K locations. Of the total stores operating at January 28,
2005, approximately 82% are owned, which includes stores on leased land, with
the remainder being leased from unaffiliated third parties. Approximately 49% of
these leases are capital leases. We also own and operate 10 regional
distribution centers and 10 flatbed distribution centers for lumber and building
commodities. We own our executive offices, which are located in Mooresville,
North Carolina. We also own and maintain offices in Wilkesboro, North
Carolina.


Item
3 - Legal Proceedings

We are a
defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal course of
business, none of which, singularly or collectively, are considered
material.

Item
4 - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not
applicable.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The
following is a list of names and ages of all of the executive officers of the
registrant indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each
such person and each person's principal occupations or employment during the
past five years.




Part
II

Item

-

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities

Lowe's
common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The ticker symbol
for Lowe's is LOW. As of April 1, 2005, there were 27,077 holders of record of
Lowe's common stock. The table, "Lowe's Quarterly Stock Price Range and Cash
Dividend Payment", on page 44 of the 2004 Lowe’s Annual Report to Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2005 sets forth, for the periods
indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the common stock as
reported by the NYSE Composite Tape and the dividends per share declared on the
common stock during such periods.

Item
6 - Selected Financial Data

See pages
42 through 43 of the Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item
7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 18 through 24 and "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements" on page 25 of Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

Item
7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk

See
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" on page 24 of
Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item
8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See the
"Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" of Deloitte &
Touche LLP on page 26, the financial statements and notes thereto on pages 27
through 41, and the "Selected Quarterly Data" on page 43 of Lowe’s 2004 Annual
Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.

Item
9 - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

None.

Item
9A - Controls and Procedures

The
Company's management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s
“disclosure controls and procedures”, (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (the “Exchange Act”)). Based upon their evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period
covered by this report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective for the purpose of ensuring that the information required to be
disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange
Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) (1) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC’s rules and forms, and (2) is accumulated and communicated to the
Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial
officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.

In
addition, based on that evaluation, no change in the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting occurred during the fiscal fourth quarter ended January
28, 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s
report on internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rules 13a - 15(f) and 15d - 15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the attestation
report of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Company’s independent registered public
accounting firm, on management’s assessment of internal control over financial
reporting are included in Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 25
and 26 under the headings, “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm,” respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.


Part
III

Item
9B - Other Information

None.

Item
10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Election of Directors," "Information
Concerning the Nominees," "Information Concerning Continuing Directors,"
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board," and
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" included in the
definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with
the SEC within 120 days after the fiscal year ended January 28, 2005 (the "Proxy
Statement"). The information required by this item with respect to our executive
officers appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption,
"Executive Officers of the Registrant. "

All
employees of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Chief Accounting Officer are required to abide by the Lowe's
Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the
"Code"). The Code is designed to ensure that the Company's business is conducted
in a legal and ethical manner. The Code covers all areas of professional conduct
including compliance with laws and regulations, conflicts of interest, fair
dealing among customers and suppliers, corporate opportunity, confidential
information, insider trading, employee relations and accounting complaints. A
full text of our summary of the Code can be found at www.Lowes.com, under the
"About Lowe’s," "Investors" and "Lowe's Code of Business Ethics" captions. If
you would like to receive a free copy of the complete Code, please contact
Shareholder Services at 1-888-345-6937.

We will
disclose information pertaining to amendments or waivers to provisions of our
Code that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar
functions and that relate to the elements of our Code enumerated in the
Securities and Exchange Commission's ("SEC") rules and regulations by posting
this information on our website at www.Lowes.com. The information on our
web-site is not a part of this Annual Report and is not incorporated by
reference in this report or any of our other filings with the SEC.

Item
11 - Executive Compensation

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Compensation of Executive Officers,"
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board -
Compensation of Directors and Committees of the Board - Other Arrangements," and
"Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change in Control
Arrangements," included in the Proxy Statement. Information included under the
captions "Report of the Compensation and Organization Committee" and
"Performance Graph" is not incorporated by reference herein.

Item
12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Equity Compensation Plan Information"
and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" included in
the Proxy Statement.

Item
13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Related-Party Transactions" included
in the Proxy Statement.

Item
14 - Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption entitled, "Fees Paid to the Independent
Accountants" included in the Proxy Statement.


Part
IV

Item
15 - Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

a) 1.

Financial
Statements

See the
following items and page numbers appearing in Lowe’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders:

2.

Financial
Statement Schedules

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe’s Companies, Inc.

Mooresville,
North Carolina

We have
audited the consolidated financial statements of Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 28, 2005 and January 30, 2004, and
for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended January 28, 2005,
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of January 28, 2005, and the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2005, and
have issued our reports thereon dated April 11, 2005, which report on the
consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes
an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company’s change in method of accounting
for stock-based compensation as described in Note 1; such consolidated financial
statements and reports are included in your 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders
and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the
consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company, listed in Item 15.
These consolidated financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

/s/
Deloitte & Touche LLP

Charlotte,
North Carolina

April 11,


SCHEDULE
II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

(In
Millions)

(a)

:
Represents increase/(decrease) in the required reserve based on the Company’s
evaluation of discontinued inventories.

(b)

:
Represents the actual inventory shrinkage experienced at the time of physical
inventories.

(c)

:
Represents claim payments for self-insured claims.




*
      Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
      filed as an exhibit to this

form.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report on Form
10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Each of the directors of the
Registrant whose signature appears below hereby appoints Robert F. Hull, Jr.,
Kenneth W. Black, Jr. and Ross W. McCanless, and each of them severally, as his
or her attorney-in-fact to sign in his or her name and behalf, in any and all
capacities stated below, and to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission
any and all amendments to this report on Form 10-K, making such changes in this
report on Form 10-K as appropriate, and generally to do all such things in their
behalf in their capacities as directors and/or officers to enable the Registrant
to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


20