
10-K
FORM 10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

[X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                                      OR

[ ]       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999          Commission File No. 1-13881


                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.



Delaware                                                              52-2055918
(State of Incorporation)                 (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

                              10400 Fernwood Road
                           Bethesda, Maryland  20817
                                (301) 380-3000


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates at
January 31, 2000 was $5,796,024,530.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.


    Yes  [X]                                                 No [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure by delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference


    Portions of the Proxy Statement prepared for the 2000 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.


             Index to Exhibits is located on pages 52 through 54.


                                     PART I

     Throughout this report, we refer to Marriott International, Inc., together
with its subsidiaries, as "we," "us," or "the Company."

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     We have made forward-looking statements in this document that are based on
the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and on information currently
available to our management. Forward-looking statements include the information
concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations and statements
preceded by, followed by or that include the words "believes," "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "estimates," or similar expressions.

     Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-
looking statements. We caution you not to put undue reliance on any forward-
looking statements.

     You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to
those discussed in Exhibit 99 and elsewhere in this annual report, could cause
results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking
statements.

          .    competition for each of our business segments;

          .    business strategies and their intended results;

          .    the balance between supply of and demand for hotel rooms,
               timeshare units, senior living accommodations and corporate
               apartments;

          .    our continued ability to obtain new operating contracts and
               franchise agreements;

          .    our ability to develop and maintain positive relations with
               current and potential hotel and senior living community owners;

          .    the effect of international, national and regional economic
               conditions;

          .    the availability of capital to allow us and potential hotel and
               senior living community owners to fund investments;

          .    the effect that internet hotel reservation channels may have on
               the rates that we are able to charge for hotel rooms; and

          .    other risks described from time to time in our filings with the
               Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).

ITEMS 1 and 2.  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

     We are a worldwide operator and franchisor of hotels and related lodging
facilities, an operator of senior living communities, and a provider of
distribution services. Our operations are grouped in three business segments,
Lodging, Senior Living Services and Distribution Services, which represented 81,
6, and 13 percent, respectively, of total sales in the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1999.

     In our Lodging segment, we operate, develop and franchise lodging
facilities and vacation timesharing resorts. In addition, we provide over 5,100
furnished corporate housing units.



     In our Senior Living Services segment we develop and presently operate 144
senior living communities offering independent living, assisted living and
skilled nursing care for seniors in the United States.

     Marriott Distribution Services (MDS) supplies food and related products to
external customers and to internal lodging and senior living services operations
throughout the United States.

     Financial information by industry segment and geographic area as of
December 31, 1999 and for the three fiscal years then ended, appears in the
Business Segments note to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report.

Formation of "New" Marriott International - Spinoff in March 1998

     We became a public company in March 1998, when we were spun off (the
Spinoff) as a separate entity by the company formerly named "Marriott
International, Inc." (Old Marriott). Our company - the "new" Marriott
International - was formed to conduct the lodging, senior living and
distribution services businesses formerly conducted by Old Marriott.

     The Spinoff was effected through a dividend of one share of our common
stock and one share of our Class A Common Stock for each share of Old Marriott
Common Stock outstanding on March 20, 1998. As the result of a shareholders'
vote at our 1998 annual meeting of shareholders, on May 21, 1998 we converted
all of our outstanding shares of common stock into shares of Class A Common
Stock on a one-for-one basis.

     At the same time as the Spinoff, Old Marriott merged its remaining
businesses - food service and facilities management - with the similar
businesses of Sodexho Alliance, S.A. (Sodexho Alliance) in the United States and
Canada, to form Sodexho Marriott Services, Inc. (SMS). We are providing certain
transitional administrative services to SMS, and MDS provides food distribution
services to many of SMS's food service locations.

Lodging

     We operate or franchise 1,880 lodging properties worldwide, with 355,883
rooms as of December 31, 1999. In addition, we provide 5,184 furnished corporate
housing units. We believe that our portfolio of fourteen lodging brands - from
luxury to economy to extended stay to corporate housing - is the broadest of any
company in the world, and that we are the leader in the quality tier of the
vacation timesharing business. Consistent with our focus on management and
franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. Our lodging brands
include:





Company-Operated Lodging Properties

     At December 31, 1999, we operated a total of 882 properties (219,880 rooms)
as owned or under long-term management or lease agreements with property owners
(together, the Operating Agreements).

     Terms of our management agreements vary, but typically we earn a management
fee which comprises a base fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the
hotel, and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the
hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs
(both direct and indirect) of operations. Such agreements are generally for
initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options to renew for up to 50 additional
years. Our lease agreements also vary, but typically include fixed annual
rentals plus additional rentals based on a percentage of annual revenues in
excess of a fixed amount. Many of the Operating Agreements are subordinated to
mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Additionally, a
number of the Operating Agreements permit the owners to terminate the agreement
if financial returns fail to meet defined levels and we have not cured such
deficiencies.

     For units that we manage, we are responsible for hiring, training and
supervising the managers and employees required to operate the facilities and
for purchasing supplies, for which we generally are reimbursed by the owners. We
provide centralized reservation services, and national advertising, marketing
and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing
services. For lodging facilities that we manage, we prepare and implement annual
operating budgets that are subject to owner approval.

Franchised Lodging Properties

     We have franchising programs that permit the use of certain of our brand
names and our lodging systems by other hotel owners and operators. Under these
programs, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty
fees, which typically range from four percent to six percent of room revenues
for all brands, plus two percent to three percent of food and beverage revenues
for certain full-service hotels. In addition, franchisees contribute to our
national marketing and advertising programs, and pay fees for use of our
centralized reservation systems. At December 31, 1999, we had 998 franchised
properties (136,003 rooms).

Summary of Properties by Brand
- ------------------------------

     As of December 31, 1999 we operated or franchised the following properties
by brand (excluding 5,184 corporate housing rental units):



     We plan to open approximately 230 hotels (approximately 38,000 rooms)
during 2000. We believe that we have access to sufficient financial resources to
finance our growth, as well as to support our ongoing operations and meet debt
service and other cash requirements. Nonetheless, our ability to sell properties
that we develop, and the ability



of hotel or senior living community developers to build or acquire new Marriott
properties, which are important parts of our growth plans, are partially
dependent on the availability and price of capital.

     Marriott Hotels, Resorts and Suites primarily serve business and leisure
travelers and meeting groups at locations in downtown and suburban areas, near
airports and at resort locations. Most Marriott full-service hotels contain from
300 to 500 rooms. Marriott full-service hotels typically have swimming pools,
gift shops, convention and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and
lounges and parking facilities. Our 19 convention hotels (approximately 20,100
rooms) are larger and contain up to 1,900 rooms. Marriott resort hotels have
additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts and golf courses. The
13 Marriott Suites (approximately 3,400 rooms) are full-service suite hotels
that typically contain approximately 250 suites, each consisting of a living
room, bedroom and bathroom. Marriott Suites have only limited meeting space.

     We operate conference centers located throughout the United States. Some of
the centers are used exclusively by employees of the sponsoring organization,
while others are marketed to outside meeting groups and individuals. The centers
typically include meeting room space, dining facilities, guestrooms and
recreational facilities.

     Room operations contributed the majority of hotel sales for the fiscal year
1999 with the remainder coming from food and beverage operations, recreational
facilities and other services. Although business at many resort properties is
seasonal depending on location, overall hotel profits have been relatively
stable and include only moderate seasonal fluctuations.



     Ritz-Carlton hotels and resorts are renowned for their distinctive
architecture and for the quality of their facilities, dining and guest service.
Most Ritz-Carlton hotels have 200 to 500 guest rooms and typically include
meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and lounges, gift
shops, swimming pools and parking facilities. Guests at most of the Ritz-Carlton
resorts have access to additional recreational amenities, such as tennis courts
and golf courses.



     Renaissance is a global quality-tier brand which targets business
travelers, group meetings and leisure travelers. Renaissance hotels are
generally located in downtown locations of major cities, in suburban office
parks, near major gateway airports and in destination resorts. Most hotels
contain 300 to 500 rooms; however, a few of the convention hotels are larger,
and some hotels in non-gateway markets, particularly in Europe, are smaller.
Renaissance hotels typically include an all-day dining restaurant, a specialty
restaurant, club floors and lounge, boardrooms, and convention and banquet
facilities. Renaissance resorts have additional recreational facilities
including golf, tennis and water sports.





     Ramada International is a moderately-priced brand targeted at business and
leisure travelers. Each full-service Ramada International property includes a
restaurant, a cocktail lounge and full-service meeting and banquet facilities.
Ramada International hotels are located primarily in Europe in major and
secondary cities, near major international airports and suburban office park
locations. We also receive a royalty fee from Cendant Corporation (successor to
HFS, Inc.) and Ramada Franchise Canada Limited for the use of the Ramada name in
the United States and Canada, respectively.



     Residence Inn is the U.S. market leader among extended-stay lodging
products, which caters primarily to business, government and family travelers
who stay more than five consecutive nights. Residence Inns generally have 80 to
130 studio and two-story penthouse suites. Most inns feature a series of
residential style buildings with landscaped walkways, courtyards and
recreational areas. The inns do not have restaurants but offer complimentary
continental breakfast. Each suite contains a fully equipped kitchen, and many
suites have wood-burning fireplaces.



     Courtyard is our moderate-price limited-service hotel product. Aimed at
individual business and leisure travelers as well as families, Courtyard hotels
maintain a residential atmosphere and typically have 80 to 150 rooms. Well
landscaped grounds include a courtyard with a pool and social areas. Most hotels
feature meeting rooms, limited restaurant and lounge facilities, and an exercise
room. The operating systems developed for these hotels allow Courtyard to be
price-competitive while providing better value through superior facilities and
guest service.



     SpringHill Suites is our all-suite brand in the moderate price tier of
lodging products. SpringHill Suites feature suites that are 25 percent larger
than a typical hotel guest room and offer a broad range of amenities, including
complimentary continental breakfast and exercise facilities. At December 31,
1999, 34 properties (3,445 rooms) were located in 21 states.



     TownePlace Suites is a moderately priced, extended-stay hotel product that
is designed to appeal to business and leisure travelers. The typical TownePlace
Suites hotel contains 95 high quality one- and two-bedroom suites. Each suite
has a fully equipped kitchen and separate living area. Each hotel provides
housekeeping services and has on-site exercise facilities, an outdoor pool, 24-
hour staffing and laundry facilities. At December 31, 1999, 61 TownePlace Suites
(6,106 rooms) were located in 25 states.

     Fairfield Inn is our economy lodging product which competes directly with
major national economy motel chains. Aimed at cost-conscious individual business
and leisure travelers, a typical Fairfield Inn has 65 to 135 rooms and offers a
swimming pool, complimentary continental breakfast and free local phone calls.
At December 31, 1999, 414 Fairfield Inns (38,973 rooms) were located in 46
states and the District of Columbia.

     Marriott Vacation Club International develops, sells and operates vacation
timesharing resorts. Profits are generated from three primary sources: (1)
selling fee simple and other forms of timeshare intervals, (2) operating the
resorts and (3) financing consumer purchases of timesharing intervals.

     Many timesharing resorts are located adjacent to Marriott hotels, and
timeshare owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation.
Owners can trade their annual interval for intervals at other Marriott
timesharing resorts or for intervals at certain timesharing resorts not
otherwise sponsored by Marriott through an affiliated exchange company. Owners
also can trade their unused interval for points in the Marriott Rewards frequent
stay program, enabling them to stay at over 1,600 Marriott hotels worldwide.

     At December 31, 1999, we had 21 resorts in active sales. In May, 1999, we
announced plans to launch a new vacation ownership resort brand - Horizons by
Marriott Vacation Club (Horizons). Horizons represents our entrance into the
moderate tier which currently accounts for 55 percent of the vacation ownership
market, which is the fastest-growing segment in the hospitality industry. The
first Horizons resort is being built in Orlando, Florida with completion
scheduled for early 2001. Marriott Vacation Club International's owner base
continues to expand, with 140,000 owners at year end 1999, compared to 120,000
in 1998.



     Marriott Executive Apartments provide temporary housing for business
executives and others who need quality accommodations outside their home
country, usually for 30 or more days. Some serviced apartments operate under the
Marriott Executive Apartments brand which is designed specifically for the long-
term international traveler. At December 31, 1999, seven serviced apartment
properties (1,527 units), including two Marriott Executive Apartments, were
located in three countries and territories.

     ExecuStay provides furnished corporate apartments for stays of one month or
longer nationwide. ExecuStay owns no residential real estate and provides units
through short-term lease agreements with apartment owners and managers.

     Other Activities

     Marriott Golf manages 27 golf course facilities for us and for other golf
course owners.

     We operate 19 systemwide hotel reservation centers, 12 of them in the U.S.
and Canada and seven internationally, that handle reservation requests for
Marriott lodging brands worldwide, including franchised properties. We own one
of the U.S. facilities and lease the others.

     Our Architecture and Construction Division assists in the design,
development, construction and refurbishment of lodging properties and senior
living communities and is paid a fee by the owners of such properties.



Competition

     We encounter strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a
franchisor. There are over 500 lodging management companies in the United
States, including several that operate more than 100 properties. These operators
are primarily private management firms, but also include several large national
chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands.
Management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel
owner to replace the management firm if certain financial or performance
criteria are not met.

     Affiliation with a national or regional brand is prevalent in the U.S.
lodging industry. In 1999, the majority of U.S. hotel rooms were brand-
affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the
operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation
system. The franchising business is fairly concentrated, with the three largest
franchisors operating multiple brands accounting for a significant proportion of
all U.S. rooms.

     Outside the United States branding is much less prevalent, and most markets
are served primarily by independent operators. We believe that chain affiliation
will increase in overseas markets as local economies grow, trade barriers are
reduced, international travel accelerates and hotel owners seek the economies of
centralized reservation systems and marketing programs.

     Based on lodging industry data, we have approximately a seven percent share
of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms), less than a one percent
share of the lodging market outside the United States and a seven percent share
of annual worldwide timesharing sales of about $7 billion. We believe that our
hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or
franchise affiliation, because our hotels typically generate higher occupancies
and Revenue per Available Room (REVPAR) than direct competitors in most market
areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and
maintaining strong customer preference. Approximately 37 percent of our
ownership resort sales come from additional purchases by or referrals from
existing owners. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging
facilities, our marketing programs, reservation systems and our emphasis on
guest service and satisfaction are contributing factors across all of our
brands.

     Properties that we operate or franchise are regularly upgraded to maintain
their competitiveness. Our management, lease, and franchise agreements provide
for the allocation of funds, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for
periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishing. We believe that
the ongoing refurbishment program is adequate to preserve the competitive
position and earning power of the hotels. We also strive to update and improve
the products and services we offer. We believe that by operating a number of
hotels in each of our brands, we stay in direct touch with customers and react
to changes in the marketplace more quickly than chains which rely exclusively on
franchising.

     The Marriott Rewards and Marriott Miles programs enhance repeat guest
business by rewarding frequent travelers with free stays at Marriott hotels or
free travel on 18 participating airlines. Marriott Rewards is a multi-brand
frequent guest program with a total of over 12 million members which covers
eight Marriott brands. We believe that the frequent stay programs generate
substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels.



Marriott Senior Living Services

     In our Senior Living Services business, we develop and operate both
"independent full-service" and "assisted living" senior living communities and
provide related senior care services. Most are rental communities with monthly
rates that depend on the amenities and services provided. We are one of the
largest U.S. operators of senior living communities in the quality tier.

     As shown in the table below, at December 31, 1999 we operated 144 senior
living communities in 29 states.



(1)  Units represent independent living apartments plus beds in assisted living
and nursing centers.

     At December 31, 1999, we operated 45 independent full-service senior living
communities, which offer both independent living apartments and personal
assistance units for seniors. Most of these communities also offer licensed
nursing care.

     At December 31, 1999, we also operated 99 assisted living senior living
communities principally under the names "Brighton Gardens by Marriott," "Village
Oaks," and "Marriott MapleRidge." Assisted living senior living communities are
for seniors who benefit from assistance with daily activities such as bathing,
dressing or medication. Brighton Gardens is a quality-tier assisted living
concept which generally has 90 assisted living suites and in certain locations,
30 to 45 nursing beds in a community. In some communities, separate on-site
centers also provide specialized care for residents with Alzheimer's or other
memory-related disorders. Village Oaks is a moderately-priced assisted living
concept which emphasizes companion living and generally has 70 suites in a
community. This concept is geared for the cost conscious senior who benefits
from the companionship of another unrelated individual. Marriott MapleRidge
assisted living communities consist of a cluster of six or seven 14-room
cottages which offer residents a smaller scale, more intimate setting and
family-like living at a moderate price.

     The assisted living concepts typically include three meals per day, linen
and housekeeping services, security, transportation, and social and recreational
activities. Additionally, skilled nursing and therapy services are generally
available to Brighton Gardens residents.

     Terms of the senior living services management agreements vary but
typically include base management fees, ranging from four to six percent of
revenues, central administrative services reimbursements and incentive
management fees. Such agreements are generally for initial periods of five to 30
years, with options to renew for up to 25 additional years. Under the leases
covering certain of the communities, we pay the owner fixed annual rent plus
additional rent equal to a percentage of the amount by which annual revenues
exceed a fixed amount.

     Our Senior Living Services business competes mostly with local and regional
providers of long-term health care and senior living services, although some
national providers are emerging in the assisted living market. We compete by
operating well-maintained facilities, and by providing quality health care, food
service and other services at competitive prices. The reputation for service,
quality care and know how associated with the Marriott name is also attractive
to residents and their families. The Marriott Assisted Living Education Program,
chaired by actress Debbie Reynolds, also demonstrates our commitment to
leadership in the Senior Living Services business. This program aims to increase
awareness of assisted living and to highlight general benefits to adult children
and their senior family members. Additionally, we have focused on developing
relationships with professionals who often refer



seniors to senior living communities, such as hospital discharge planners and
physicians. By educating these groups on the assisted living concept, and
familiarizing them with Marriott products and associates, we generate a
significant volume of referrals that helps our senior living communities to
quickly achieve high, stabilized occupancy levels.

Marriott Distribution Services

  MDS is a United States limited-line distributor of food and related supplies,
carrying an average of 3,000 product items per distribution center. This segment
originally focused on purchasing, warehousing and distributing food and supplies
to other Marriott businesses. However, MDS has increased its third-party
business to about 87 percent of total sales volume in the year ended December
31, 1999.

  MDS operated a nationwide network of 13 distribution centers at December 31,
1999. Leased facilities are generally built to our specifications, and utilize a
narrow aisle concept and technology to enhance productivity.

  Through MDS, we compete with numerous national, regional and local
distribution companies in the $147 billion U.S. food distribution industry. We
attract clients by adopting competitive pricing policies and by maintaining one
of the highest order fill rates in the industry. In addition, our limited
product lines, operating systems, and other economies provide a favorable cost
structure which we are able to leverage in pursuing new business.

Employee Relations

  At December 31, 1999, we had approximately 143,000 employees. Approximately
5,500 employees at properties we manage were represented by labor unions. We
believe relations with our employees are positive.

Other Properties

  In addition to the operating properties discussed above, we lease an 870,000
square foot office building in Bethesda, Maryland which serves as our
headquarters.

  We believe our properties are in generally good physical condition with need
for only routine repair and maintenance.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  Incorporated by reference to the description of legal proceedings in the
"Contingent Liabilities" footnote in the financial statements set forth in Part
II, Item 8,  "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  None.



Part II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

  The range of prices of our common stock and dividends declared per share for
the period since the March 27, 1998 Spinoff are as follows.  No data are
presented for the period prior to the Spinoff since we were not a publicly-held
company during that time.





/1/  Total of $.045 for the first quarter (declared and paid in the second
quarter), and $.05 second quarter dividend.


  At January 31, 2000, there were 243,957,257 shares of Class A Common Stock
outstanding held by 55,987 shareholders of record.  Our Class A Common Stock is
traded on the New York Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, Pacific Stock
Exchange and Philadelphia Stock Exchange.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA

  The following table presents summary selected historical financial data for
the Company derived from our financial statements as of and for the five fiscal
years ended December 31, 1999.

  Since the information in this table is only a summary and does not provide all
of the information contained in our financial statements, including the related
notes, you should read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" and our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Per share data and Shareholders' Equity have not been presented for periods
prior to 1998 because we were not a publicly-held company during that time.




_______________________
/1/Fiscal year 1996 includes 53 weeks, all other years include 52 weeks.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

General

  The following discussion presents an analysis of results of our operations for
fiscal years ended December 31, 1999, January 1, 1999, and January 2, 1998.
Comparable REVPAR, room rate and occupancy statistics used throughout this
report are based on U.S. properties operated by us except for Fairfield Inn,
which data also include franchised units.  Systemwide sales and statistics
include data from our owned, leased, managed and franchised properties.

  In 1998 we changed our accounting policy to no longer include the working
capital and sales of managed hotels and managed senior living communities in our
financial statements.  Instead, our sales include fees earned plus costs
recovered from owners of managed properties.  We restated prior periods and all
references in the discussion below refer to financial statement data prepared
under our new accounting policy.  This restatement reflects reductions in sales
of $2,240 million for 1998 and $1,810 million for 1997, compared to sales as
previously calculated for those periods.

  Consolidated Results

1999 Compared to 1998

  Net income increased three percent to $400 million in 1999 and diluted
earnings per share advanced three percent to $1.51.  Overall profit growth in
1999 was curtailed by a $39 million pretax charge to reflect an agreement to
settle pending litigation, (refer to the "Contingent Liabilities" footnote in
the financial statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data") incremental costs of our Year 2000 readiness efforts, and
an operating loss in our senior living services business.

  Sales increased 10 percent to $8.7 billion in 1999, reflecting revenue gains
at established hotels, and contributions from new lodging properties and senior
living communities.  Systemwide sales grew 10 percent to $17.7 billion in 1999.

1998 Compared to 1997

  Net income increased 20 percent to $390 million in 1998. Diluted earnings per
share advanced 23 percent to $1.46, reflecting higher net income and the impact
of share repurchases. Profit growth was driven by strong performance for our
U.S. lodging operations, and improved results for our distribution services
business. Sales grew 10 percent to $8.0 billion, primarily due to the net
addition of 496 hotels (including acquisitions) and 41 senior living communities
from the beginning of 1997 through year-end 1998. Systemwide sales in 1998 were
$16.0 billion, a 21 percent increase compared to the preceding year.

 Marriott Lodging



1999 Compared to 1998

  Marriott Lodging reported a 17 percent increase in operating profit and 12
percent higher sales in 1999. Results reflected higher room rates for U.S.
hotels, contributions from new hotels worldwide, and strong interval sales in
resort timesharing. We estimate that lodging operating profit in 1999 was
attributable to base management fees (27 percent of total), franchise fees (17
percent) and land rent (three percent) that are based on fixed dollar amounts or
percentages of sales. The balance was attributable to our timesharing business
(15 percent), and to incentive management fees and other income based on the
profits of the underlying properties (38 percent).



  Across our Lodging brands, REVPAR for comparable company-operated U.S.
properties grew by an average of 3.7 percent in 1999. Average room rates for
these hotels rose 3.6 percent, while occupancy remained at 77.5 percent.
Occupancy, average daily rate and REVPAR for each of our principal established
brands is shown in the following table.



  International hotel operations posted improved results in 1999, reflecting
profit growth for properties in continental Europe, the Middle East, Latin
America and the Caribbean region.

  Marriott Vacation Club International achieved a 22 percent increase in
contract sales in 1999, as well as higher income from resort management.  Strong
interval sales were generated at timeshare resorts in Florida, South Carolina,
Hawaii and Spain.  During 1999, we had 21 resorts in active sales, including the
initial project (Orlando, Fla.) for Horizons by Marriott Vacation Club, a new
product line targeting the moderate price tier of the timeshare market.

  We added a net total of 194 hotels and timesharing resorts (27,600 rooms)
across our lodging brands during 1999.

1998 Compared to 1997

  Marriott Lodging reported a 24 percent increase in operating profit and 20
percent higher sales in 1998.  Results reflected solid room rate growth at U.S.
hotels, and contributions from new properties worldwide.  We added a net



total of 176 hotels and resorts (27,800 rooms) to our lodging system in 1998.
Lodging operating profit in 1998 was attributable to base management fees (28
percent of total), franchise fees (18 percent), land rent and other income
(three percent), resort timesharing (13 percent), and incentive management fees
and other profit participations (38 percent).

  Across our lodging brands, REVPAR for comparable company-operated U.S.
properties grew by an average of six percent in 1998.  Average room rates for
these hotels rose more than six percent, well in excess of inflation, while
occupancy dipped one-half percentage point to 78 percent.



  Results for our international hotel operations declined in 1998, as profit
growth in Europe and Latin America was offset by the impact of difficult
economic conditions in the Asia/Pacific region, and reduced travel in the Middle
East.

  Marriott Vacation Club International generated a 10 percent increase in
contract sales in 1998, and higher income from resort management and financing
activities.  MVCI reported strong sales activity at major timeshare resorts in
Florida, South Carolina, California, Hawaii, Spain and Aruba.

  In March 1998, we increased our ownership interest in The Ritz-Carlton Hotel
Company LLC to 99 percent from 49 percent.  Sales for Marriott Lodging were up
11 percent in 1998 before the impact of consolidating this hotel management
company.



  Marriott Senior Living Services



1999 Compared to 1998

  Marriott Senior Living Services posted a 17 percent increase in sales in 1999,
as we added a net total of 31 new communities (4,216 living units) during the
year. Occupancy for comparable communities increased by nearly one percentage
point to 90 percent in 1999.

  The division reported an operating loss in 1999, primarily as a result of $18
million of pre-opening costs for new communities, increased accounts receivable
reserves, and one-time charges associated with our decision to slow new
construction until market conditions improve.

1998 Compared to 1997

  Marriott Senior Living Services opened 24 senior living communities in 1998,
including 14 Brighton Gardens, our assisted living brand serving the quality
tier.  Profit comparisons for 1998 were affected by the mid-1997 sale of 29
senior living communities which we continue to operate under long-term
agreements.  Excluding the impact of this transaction, operating profit for the
division increased by $5 million in 1998.  Occupancy for comparable communities
was unchanged for the year.

 Marriott Distribution Services



1999 Compared to 1998

  Operating profit for Marriott Distribution Services increased 24 percent in
1999 on a modest decline in sales.  The division benefited from higher gross
margins per case and reduced inventory losses compared to 1998.

1998 Compared to 1997

  Operating profit for Marriott Distribution Services more than doubled in 1998,
while sales declined 24 percent due to a reduction in the total number of
accounts serviced.  Results were boosted by the consolidation of distribution
facilities, and realization of significant economies in warehouse operations and
transportation.

  Corporate expenses, interest and taxes

1999 Compared to 1998

  Corporate expenses increased to $164 million in 1999 primarily due to a $39
million pretax charge associated with an agreement to settle pending litigation,
together with increased systems-related costs, including $22 million of costs
associated with our Year 2000 readiness program, compared to $12 million of Year
2000 readiness program costs in 1998.  Interest expense more than doubled to $61
million as a result of borrowings to finance growth outlays and share
repurchases.  Our effective income tax rate decreased to approximately 37.3
percent in 1999 from 38.3 percent in 1998, primarily due to the impact of tax-
oriented investments, and increased income in countries with lower effective tax
rates.



1998 Compared to 1997

  Corporate expenses rose 25 percent in 1998, and included $12 million of costs
associated with our Year 2000 readiness program.  Interest expense increased 36
percent in 1998 as a result of incremental borrowings to finance capital
expenditures and share repurchases.  Our effective income tax rate decreased to
approximately 38.3 percent in 1998, from 39 percent in 1997, primarily due to
increased income in countries with lower effective tax rates.

  Lodging Development

  Marriott Lodging opened 243 properties totaling 36,500 rooms across its brands
in 1999, while 49 hotels (8,900 rooms) exited the system.  Highlights of the
year included:

     . Twenty-five full-service properties (approximately 7,100 rooms) opened
       outside the United States. These include our first hotels in Armenia,
       Ecuador, El Salvador, Guam, The Netherlands Antilles, Portugal and Spain.

     . Thirty-nine hotels (9,400 rooms) converted from independent status or
       competitor chains, including the 504-room Renaissance Worthington Hotel
       in Texas, and the 387-room JW Marriott Ihilani Resort & Spa at Ko Olina
       on the island of Oahu, Hawaii.

     . A record 195 properties (approximately 23,500 rooms) added to our select
       service and extended-stay brands, including the renovation and conversion
       to Courtyard of historically significant urban properties in
       Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Fort Worth, San Diego and Omaha.

     . Development of new Marriott Vacation Club International resorts in
       Newport Beach, Calif., Panama City and Miami, Fla., Williamsburg, Va.,
       and Maui, Hawaii, and a Horizons by Marriott Vacation Club resort in
       Orlando, Fla.

  At year-end 1999, we had over 400 hotel properties (approximately 70,000
rooms) under construction or approved for development.  We expect to open
approximately 230 hotels and timesharing resorts (38,000 rooms) in 2000.  Over a
five-year period (1999 to 2003), we plan to add 175,000 rooms to our lodging
system.  These growth plans are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties,
many of which are outside our control.  See "Forward-Looking Statements" above
and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below.

Senior Living Services Development

  During 1999, Marriott Senior Living Services neared completion of a major
expansion program involving the opening of 60 new communities over a two-year
period from mid-1998 through mid-2000.  The division's development efforts in
1999 were focused on its popular Brighton Gardens assisted living brand, and
Marriott MapleRidge, an assisted living concept designed for seniors who prefer
a more intimate, family-like setting.

  Due to oversupply conditions in some senior housing markets, we decided in
1999 to slow development of planned communities. Consequently, a number of
projects in the early stages of development were postponed or cancelled.
Marriott Senior Living Services is continuing to pursue development of new
communities to be financed by third parties, and expects to resume active
development of company-owned projects when market conditions improve.

  Ten senior living communities under construction at year end 1999 are
scheduled to open during 2000.



Liquidity And Capital Resources

  We believe that we have access to sufficient financial resources to finance
our growth, as well as to support our ongoing operations and meet debt service
and other cash requirements.  However, our ability to sell properties that we
develop, and the ability of hotel or senior living community developers to build
or acquire new Marriott-branded properties, which are important parts of our
growth plans, are partially dependent on the availability and cost of capital.
We are monitoring the status of the capital markets, and are evaluating the
effect, that changes in capital market conditions may have on our ability to
execute our announced growth plans.

Cash From Operations

  Cash from operations was $711 million in 1999, $605 million in 1998, and $542
million in 1997.  Net income is stated after depreciation expense of $96 million
in 1999, $76 million in 1998 and $68 million in 1997, and after amortization
expense of $66 million in 1999, $64 million in 1998 and $58 million in 1997.
While our timesharing business generates strong operating cash flow, annual
amounts are affected by the timing of cash outlays for the acquisition and
development of new resorts, and cash received from purchaser financing.  We
include interval sales we finance in cash from operations when we collect cash
payments or the notes are sold for cash.

  Earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA) increased to $860 million in 1999, compared to $802 million in 1998 and
$679 million in 1997, and has grown at an 18 percent annual rate since 1995.

  We consider EBITDA to be an indicator of our operating performance because it
can be used to measure our ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures
and expand our business. Nevertheless, you should not consider EBITDA an
alternative to net income, operating profit, cash flows from operations, or any
other operating or liquidity measure prescribed by generally accepted accounting
principles.

  A substantial portion of our EBITDA is based on fixed dollar amounts or
percentages of sales.  These include lodging base management and franchise fees
and land rent.  With more than 2,000 hotels and senior living communities in the
Marriott system, no single property or region is critical to our financial
results.

  Our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was .92 at December 31,
1999, compared to .94 at January 1, 1999.  Each of our businesses minimizes
working capital through strict credit-granting policies, aggressive collection
efforts and high inventory turnover.

Investing Activities Cash Flows

  Acquisitions.  We continually seek opportunities to enter new markets,
increase market share or broaden service offerings through acquisitions.  We
entered the $3 billion corporate housing market in 1999 by acquiring ExecuStay
Corporation, a leading provider of furnished apartments for executives and other
professionals.

  In 1998, we increased our ownership interest in The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company
LLC, a luxury hotel brand and management company, to 99 percent from 49 percent.
We expect to acquire the remaining one percent of this company within the next
several years. In 1997, we acquired Renaissance Hotel Group N.V., an operator
and franchisor of approximately 150 hotels in 38 countries.

  Dispositions.  Asset sales generated proceeds of $436 million in 1999, $332
million in 1998 and $571 million in 1997.  In 1999 we closed on the sales of 22
hotels and nine senior living communities.  We also have negotiated asset sales
agreements with aggregate proceeds of $82 million for sales expected to be
completed in 2000 or 2001.  We continue to operate these properties under long-
term operating agreements.

  Capital Expenditures and Other Investments.  Capital expenditures of $929
million in 1999, $937 million in 1998 and $520 million in 1997, included
development and construction of new hotels and senior living communities.  Over
time, we expect to sell certain lodging and senior living properties under
development, or to be developed, while continuing to operate them under long-
term agreements.



  We also expect to continue to make other investments to grow our businesses,
including loans, minority equity investments and development of new timeshare
resorts in connection with adding units to our Lodging business.


  We have made loans to owners of hotels and senior living communities which we
operate or franchise.  Loans outstanding under this program totaled $295 million
at December 31, 1999 and $213 million at January 1, 1999.  Unfunded commitments
aggregating $193 million were outstanding at December 31, 1999.  These loans
typically are secured by mortgages on the projects. We participate in a program
with an unaffiliated lender in which we may partially guarantee loans made to
facilitate third party ownership of hotels and senior living services
communities which we operate or franchise.


Cash From Financing Activities

  Long-term debt (including convertible subordinated debt at January 1, 1999)
increased by $409 million in 1999 and $845 million in 1998, primarily to finance
our capital expenditure and share repurchase programs.

  Our financial objectives include diversifying our financing sources and
optimizing the mix and maturity of our long-term debt.  At year-end 1999, our
long-term debt (including commercial paper borrowings of $781 million) had an
average interest rate of 6.4 percent and an average maturity of approximately
5.8 years.  The ratio of fixed rate long-term debt to total long-term debt was
53 percent as of December 31, 1999.

  We issued $300 million of 10-year senior notes in September 1999 at a yield to
maturity of 8.0 percent, and received net offering proceeds of $296 million.  In
1998, we issued a total of $400 million of 5-year and 7-year senior notes at an
average yield to maturity of 6.8 percent and received net offering proceeds of
$396 million.

  We have entered into revolving credit agreements which provide for borrowings
of $1.5 billion expiring in March 2003, and $500 million expiring in February
2004.  No loans were outstanding at year-end 1999 under these facilities, which
support our commercial paper program and letters of credit.  We had $1.2 billion
of unused revolving credit available under these facilities as of December 31,
1999.  Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at LIBOR plus a spread,
based on our public debt rating.

  We called for mandatory redemption of our Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) in
1999.  Approximately 64 percent of LYONs holders elected to convert their notes
to common stock, for which we issued 6.1 million shares. The other 36 percent of
LYONs holders received cash totaling $120 million, which reduced by 3.4 million
common shares the dilutive impact of these convertible debt securities issued by
a predecessor company in 1996. Nine percent of the cash redemption price was
reimbursed to us by the predecessor company (Sodexho Marriott Services, Inc.).

  In January 2000, we filed a "universal shelf" registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Together with the authority remaining under
a universal shelf registration statement filed in April 1999, this gives us the
flexibility to offer to the public up to $500 million of debt securities, common
stock or preferred stock.

  We determine our debt capacity based on the amount and variability of our cash
flows.  EBITDA coverage of gross interest cost was 9.1 times in 1999, and cash
flow requirements under our loan agreements were exceeded by a substantial
margin.

  Share Repurchases.  We periodically repurchase our common stock to replace
shares needed for employee stock plans and for other corporate purposes.  We
purchased 10.8 million of our shares in 1999 at an average price of $33 per
share, and 13.7 million shares in 1998 at an average price of $29 per share. On
February 3, 2000 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an
additional 25 million shares.

  Dividends.  In April 1999, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash
dividend by 10 percent to $.055 per share.  We plan to continue to reinvest the
major portion of our earnings in our business.



Other Matters

Boston Market

  In 1996, MDS became the exclusive provider of distribution services to Boston
Chicken, Inc. (BCI).  On October 5, 1998, BCI and its Boston Market-controlled
subsidiaries filed voluntary bankruptcy petitions for protection under Chapter
11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Phoenix (the
Court), and BCI and a franchisee announced closings of approximately 20 percent
of the restaurants in the Boston Market chain.  In December 1999, McDonald's
Corporation (McDonald's) announced that it had reached a definitive agreement to
purchase the majority of the assets of BCI, subject to confirmation of the BCI
plan of reorganization, including Court approval.  If approved, the purchase is
expected to close in mid-2000, although no date has been established.  MDS
continues to provide distribution services to BCI and has been receiving payment
of post-petition balances in accordance with the terms of its contract with BCI.
In addition, the Court approved, and MDS has been paid, substantially all of
MDS's pre-petition accounts receivable balances.  Given the uncertainties
involved in BCI's bankruptcy and the planned sale to McDonald's, we cannot
predict the potential effect these events will have on our future results of
operations and financial position.  If our contract were to terminate, or if BCI
or McDonald's ceased or further curtailed the operations of Boston Market, MDS
might be unable to recover up to $21 million in contract investment, receivables
and inventory, and MDS could have excess warehouse capacity and rolling stock.

Inflation

  Inflation has been moderate in recent years, and has not had a significant
impact on our businesses.

Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

  The "Year 2000 problem" arose because many computer programs and chip-based
embedded technology systems used only the last two digits to refer to a year,
and therefore could not properly recognize a year beginning with "20" instead of
the familiar "19."  If not corrected, many computer applications could have
failed or created erroneous results.

  State of Readiness.  Prior to December 31, 1999, we adopted and completed an
enterprise-wide multi-step process toward Year 2000 readiness of our information
resource systems and other systems that use embedded computer chips. We also
modified operational contingency plans to specifically address Year 2000 issues,
and established information coordination centers to collect and report status
and track and address problems had they occurred during the actual turn of the
century.

  As of March 3, 2000, we had not experienced any significant business
disruption as a result of the Year 2000 problem. Although Year 2000 problems may
not become evident until long after January 1, 2000, based on our Year 2000
readiness process and our experience at the end of 1999 and in early 2000, we
also do not expect significant Year 2000 related business disruptions in the
future.

  Costs.  Many of the costs of Year 2000 compliance have been or will be
reimbursed to us or otherwise paid directly by owners and clients pursuant to
existing contracts.  Through December 31, 1999, we have expensed approximately
$34 million of the pretax costs to address the Year 2000 problem.  Although we
do not expect to incur significant Year 2000 related costs after December 31,
1999, some of the Year 2000 costs incurred in prior years related to internal
resources which we used to address the Year 2000 Problem.  Those resources,
which have now been redeployed, will continue to generate costs in 2000 and
future years.

  In addition, the Year 2000 problem heightened the need for timely completion
of previously planned system modernization and replacement projects. We estimate
that we will bear approximately $45 million to $50 million of the pretax costs
for these projects, most of which will be capitalized and amortized over the
useful lives of the assets.



ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

  We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. We manage our
exposure to this risk by monitoring available financing alternatives, and
through development and application of credit granting policies.  Our strategy
to manage exposure to changes in interest rates is unchanged from January 1,
1999.  Furthermore, we do not foresee any significant changes in our exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates or in how such exposure is managed in the near
future.

  The following sensitivity analysis displays how our earnings and the fair
values of certain instruments we hold are affected by changes in interest rates.

  We hold notes receivable that earn interest at variable rates. Hypothetically,
an immediate one percentage point change in interest rates would change annual
interest income by $3 million based on the balances of these notes receivable at
December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999.

  Changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our long-term fixed
rate debt and long-term fixed rate notes receivable. Based on the balances
outstanding at December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999, a hypothetical immediate
one percentage point change in interest rates would change the fair value of our
long-term fixed rate debt by $41 million and $24 million, respectively, and
would change the fair value of long-term fixed rate notes receivable by
$5 million and $2 million, respectively.

  Our commercial paper has been excluded from the above sensitivity analysis.
Although commercial paper is classified as long-term debt based on our ability
and intent to refinance it on a long-term basis, all commercial paper matures
within three months of year-end.  As a result, there would be no material
expected change in interest expense or fair value following a reasonably
expected change in interest rates.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  The following financial information is included on the pages indicated:





                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders of Marriott International, Inc.:

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Marriott
International, Inc. as of December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999, and the related
consolidated statements of income, cash flows and comprehensive income for each
of the three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 1999 and the
consolidated statement of shareholders' equity for the period from March 27,
1998 to December 31, 1999.  These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform an audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Marriott
International, Inc. as of December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999, and the results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Vienna, VA
February 29, 2000



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
   Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 1999, January 1, 1999 and January 2, 1998
                   ($ in millions, except per share amounts)




                See Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                     December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999
                                ($ in millions)




                 See Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
   Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 1999, January 1, 1999 and January 2, 1998
                                ($ in millions)




                 See Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
   Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 1999, January 1, 1999 and January 2, 1998
                                ($ in millions)






                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                Period From March 27, 1998 to December 31, 1999
                    (in millions, except per share amounts)






                See Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


Basis of Presentation

     The consolidated financial statements present the results of operations,
financial position and cash flows of Marriott International, Inc. (together with
its subsidiaries, we, us or the Company), formerly New Marriott MI, Inc., as if
we were a separate entity for all periods presented. During periods prior to
March 27, 1998, we were a wholly owned subsidiary of the former Marriott
International, Inc. (Old Marriott) and financial statements for such periods
have been prepared on a combined basis.

     On March 27, 1998, all of our issued and outstanding common stock was
distributed, on a pro rata basis, as a special dividend (the Spinoff) to holders
of common stock of Old Marriott, and the Company was renamed "Marriott
International, Inc." Old Marriott's historical cost basis in our assets and
liabilities has been carried over. Old Marriott received a private letter ruling
from the Internal Revenue Service that the Spinoff would be tax-free to it and
its shareholders. For each share of common stock in Old Marriott, shareholders
received one share of our Common Stock and one share of our Class A Common
Stock. On May 21, 1998, all outstanding shares of our Common Stock were
converted, on a one-for-one basis, into shares of our Class A Common Stock.

     Also on March 27, 1998, Old Marriott was renamed Sodexho Marriott Services,
Inc. (SMS) and its food service and facilities management business was combined
with the North American operations of Sodexho Alliance, S.A. (Sodexho), a
worldwide food and management services organization.

     For purposes of governing certain of the ongoing relationships between us
and SMS after the Spinoff and to provide for orderly transition, we entered into
various agreements with SMS including the Employee Benefits and Other Employee
Matters Allocation Agreement, Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) Allocation
Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, Trademark and Trade Name License Agreement,
Noncompetition Agreement, Employee Benefit Services Agreement, Procurement
Services Agreement, Distribution Services Agreement, and other transitional
services agreements. Effective as of the Spinoff date, pursuant to these
agreements, we assumed sponsorship of certain of Old Marriott's employee benefit
plans and insurance programs and succeeded to Old Marriott's liability to LYONs
holders under the LYONs Indenture, nine percent of which was assumed by SMS.

     All material intercompany transactions and balances between entities
included in these consolidated financial statements have been eliminated. Sales
by us to SMS of $435 million in 1999, $434 million in 1998, and $434 million in
1997, have not been eliminated. Changes in Investments and Net Advances from Old
Marriott represent our net income, the net cash transferred between Old Marriott
and us, and certain non-cash items.

     Prior to the Spinoff, we operated as a unit of Old Marriott, utilizing Old
Marriott's centralized systems for cash management, payroll, purchasing and
distribution, employee benefit plans, insurance and administrative services. As
a result, substantially all cash received by us was deposited in and commingled
with Old Marriott's general corporate funds. Similarly, our operating expenses,
capital expenditures and other cash requirements were paid by Old Marriott and
charged directly or allocated to us. Certain assets and liabilities related to
our operations were managed and controlled by Old Marriott on a centralized
basis. Prior to the Spinoff such assets and liabilities were allocated to us
based on our use of, or interest in, those assets and liabilities. In our
opinion, the methods for allocating costs, assets and liabilities prior to the
Spinoff were reasonable. We now perform these functions independently and the
costs incurred have not been materially different from those allocated prior to
the Spinoff.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)


     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the
date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of sales and expenses
during the reporting period. Accordingly, ultimate results could differ from
those estimates. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

Fiscal Year

     Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to December 31. All fiscal years
presented include 52 weeks.

Revenue Recognition

     Our sales include fees and reimbursed costs for properties managed by us,
together with sales by lodging properties and senior living communities owned or
leased by us, and sales made by our other businesses. Fees comprise management
fees and franchise fees received from third party owners of lodging properties
and senior living communities. Reimbursed costs comprise costs recovered from
owners of hotels and senior living communities.

Profit Sharing Plan

     We contribute to a profit sharing plan for the benefit of employees meeting
certain eligibility requirements and electing participation in the plan.
Contributions are determined annually by the Board of Directors. We recognized
compensation cost of $46 million in 1999, $45 million in 1998 and $36 million in
1997.

Self-Insurance Programs

     We are self-insured for certain levels of general liability, workers'
compensation, employment practices and employee medical coverage. Estimated
costs of these self-insurance programs are accrued at the present value of
projected settlements for known and anticipated claims.

Frequent Guest Program

     We accrue for the cost of redeeming points awarded to members of our
frequent guest program based on the discounted expected costs of redemption. The
liability for this program was $289 million at December 31, 1999, and $280
million at January 1, 1999, and is included in other long-term liabilities in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

Cash and Equivalents

     We consider all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months
or less at date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

New Accounting Standards

     We will adopt FAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Investments and
Hedging Activities," which we do not expect to have a material effect on our
consolidated financial statements, in or before the first quarter of 2001.

     In April 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
issued Statement of Position (SOP) 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities." We adopted SOP 98-5 in the first quarter of 1999 by expensing pre-
opening costs for Company owned lodging and senior living communities as
incurred. The adoption of SOP 98-5 resulted in a pretax expense of $22 million
in 1999.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)


RELATIONSHIPS WITH MAJOR CUSTOMERS

     In December 1998, Host Marriott Corporation (Host Marriott) reorganized its
business operations to qualify as a real estate investment trust (REIT). In
conjunction with its conversion to a REIT, Host Marriott spun off, in a taxable
transaction, a new company called Crestline Capital Corporation (Crestline). As
part of the Crestline spinoff, Host Marriott transferred to Crestline all of the
senior living communities previously owned by Host Marriott, and Host Marriott
entered into lease or sublease agreements with Crestline for substantially all
of Host Marriott's lodging properties. Our lodging and senior living community
management and franchise agreements with Host Marriott were also assigned to
Crestline. In the case of the lodging agreements, Host Marriott remains
obligated under such agreements in the event that Crestline fails to perform its
obligations thereunder. The lodging agreements now provide for us to manage the
Marriott hotels, Ritz-Carlton hotels, Courtyard hotels and Residence Inns leased
by Crestline. Our consent is required for Crestline to take certain major
actions relating to leased properties that we manage.

     We recognized sales of $2,553 million, $2,144 million and $1,700 million
and operating profit before corporate expenses and interest of $221 million,
$197 million and $140 million during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, from
lodging properties owned or leased by Host Marriott. Additionally, Host Marriott
is a general partner in several unconsolidated partnerships that own lodging
properties operated by us under long-term agreements. We recognized sales of
$562 million, $712 million and $1,054 million and operating profit before
corporate expenses and interest of $64 million, $83 million and $122 million in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, from the lodging properties owned by these
unconsolidated partnerships. We also leased land to certain of these
partnerships and recognized land rent income of $24 million in both 1999 and
1998, and $23 million in 1997.

     We have provided Host Marriott with financing for a portion of the cost of
acquiring properties to be operated or franchised by us, and may continue to
provide financing to Host Marriott or Crestline in the future. The outstanding
principal balance of these loans was $11 million and $9 million at December 31,
1999 and January 1, 1999, respectively, and we recognized $1 million, $5 million
and $9 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, in interest and fee income
under these credit agreements with Host Marriott.

     We have guaranteed the performance of Host Marriott and certain of its
affiliates to lenders and other third parties. These guarantees were limited to
$14 million at December 31, 1999. No payments have been made by us pursuant to
these guarantees. We continue to have the right to purchase up to 20 percent of
Host Marriott's outstanding common stock upon the occurrence of certain events
generally involving a change of control of Host Marriott. This right expires in
2017, and Host Marriott has granted an exception to the ownership limitations in
its charter to permit full exercise of this right, subject to certain conditions
related to ownership limitations applicable to REITs generally. We lease land to
Host Marriott that had an aggregate book value of $264 million at December 31,
1999. Most of this land has been pledged to secure debt of the lessees. We have
agreed to defer receipt of rentals on this land, if necessary, to permit the
lessees to meet their debt service requirements.

     We are party to agreements which provide for us to manage the senior living
communities owned by Crestline. We recognized sales of $177 million and $173
million and operating profit before corporate expenses and interest of $3
million and $5 million under these agreements during 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

     We are party to management agreements with entities owned or affiliated
with another hotel owner which provide for us to manage hotel properties owned
or leased by those entities. We recognized sales of $531 million and $560
million during 1999 and 1998, respectively, from these properties.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)


PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT




     We record property and equipment at cost, including interest, rent and real
estate taxes incurred during development and construction. Interest capitalized
as a cost of property and equipment totaled $33 million in 1999, $21 million in
1998 and $16 million in 1997. We capitalize replacements and improvements that
extend the useful life of property and equipment. We compute depreciation using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We
amortize leasehold improvements over the shorter of the asset life or lease
term.

ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

ExecuStay

     On February 17, 1999, we completed a cash tender offer for approximately 44
percent of the outstanding common stock of ExecuStay Corporation (ExecuStay), a
leading provider of leased corporate apartments in the United States. On
February 24, 1999, substantially all of the remaining common stock of ExecuStay
was converted into nonvoting preferred stock of ExecuStay which we acquired, on
March 26, 1999, for approximately 2.1 million shares of our Class A Common
Stock. Our aggregate purchase price totaled $116 million. We consolidated the
operating results of ExecuStay from February 24, 1999, and have accounted for
the acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. We are amortizing the
resulting goodwill on a straight-line basis over 30 years.

The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC

     In 1995, we acquired a 49 percent beneficial ownership interest in The
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC, which owns the management agreements on the
Ritz-Carlton hotels and resorts, the licenses for the Ritz-Carlton trademarks
and trade name as well as miscellaneous assets. The investment was acquired for
a total consideration of approximately $200 million. On March 19, 1998, we
increased our ownership interest in The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC to
approximately 99 percent for additional consideration of approximately $90
million. We expect to acquire the remaining one percent within the next several
years. We accounted for the acquisition using the purchase method of accounting.
We allocated the purchase cost to the assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed based on estimated fair values. We amortize the resulting goodwill on a
straight-line basis over 40 years. We amortize the amounts allocated to
management agreements on a straight-line basis over the estimated lives of the
agreements. Prior to March 19, 1998, we accounted for our investment in The
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC using the equity method of accounting.

     For periods prior to March 19, 1998, we included our income from The Ritz-
Carlton Hotel Company LLC in operating profit in the accompanying consolidated
statements of income. We received distributions of $17 million in 1997 from The
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC. This amount was based upon an annual, cumulative
preferred return on invested capital.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)


Renaissance Hotel Group N.V.


     On March 29, 1997, we acquired substantially all of the outstanding common
stock of Renaissance Hotel Group N.V. (RHG), an operator and franchisor of
approximately 150 hotels in 38 countries under the Renaissance, New World and
Ramada International brands. The purchase cost of approximately $937 million was
funded by Old Marriott. The acquisition has been accounted for using the
purchase method of accounting. Goodwill is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 40 years. Amounts allocated to management, franchise and license
agreements are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the lives of the
agreements. The purchase cost has been allocated to the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values.

     We included RHG's operating results from the date of acquisition. Our
unaudited pro forma sales and net income for 1997, calculated as if RHG had been
acquired at the beginning of that year, were $7,383 million and $319 million,
respectively. Unaudited pro forma results of operations include an adjustment
for interest expense of $12 million, as if the acquisition borrowings had been
incurred by us. Amortization expense deducted in determining net income reflects
the impact of the excess of the purchase price over the net tangible assets
acquired. The unaudited pro forma combined results of operations do not reflect
our expected future results of operations.

Forum Group, Inc.

     On June 21, 1997, we sold 29 senior living communities acquired as part of
the 1996 Forum acquisition to Host Marriott for approximately $550 million,
resulting in no gain or loss. The consideration included approximately $50
million to be received subsequent to 1997, as expansions at certain communities
are completed. The $500 million of consideration received during 1997 consisted
of $222 million in cash, $187 million of outstanding debt and $91 million of
notes receivable bearing interest at nine percent which were repaid on April 1,
1998. Under the terms of the sale, Host Marriott purchased all of the common
stock of Forum, which at the time of the sale owned the 29 communities, certain
working capital and associated debt. We continue to operate these communities
under long-term management agreements.

Other Dispositions

     In 1999, we agreed to sell and leaseback, under long-term, limited-recourse
leases, four hotels for approximately $59 million in cash. At the same time, we
agreed to pay security deposits of $2 million which will be refunded at the end
of the leases. As of December 31, 1999, the sale of one of these hotels had been
completed, resulting in a sales price which exceeded the net book value by $1
million, which we will recognize as a reduction of rent expense over the 15-year
initial lease term. We can renew the leases on all four hotels at our option.

     During 1999, we agreed to sell, subject to long-term management agreements,
four hotels and five senior living communities for $55 million and $90 million,
respectively. As of December 31, 1999, sales of all four hotels and three of the
senior living communities had been completed, for a total of $107 million,
resulting in pretax gains of $10 million. We recognized $2 million of the gain
in 1999, and the balance will be recognized provided certain contingencies in
the sales contracts expire.

     In 1999, we also sold an 89 percent interest in one hotel, and concurrently
signed a long-term lease on the property. We are accounting for this transaction
under the financing method, and the sales proceeds of $58 million are reflected
as long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

     On December 29, 1998, we agreed to sell and leaseback, under long-term,
limited-recourse leases, 17 hotels for approximately $202 million in cash. At
the same time, we agreed to pay security deposits of $21 million which will be
refunded at the end of the leases. As of December 31, 1999, all of the
properties had been sold, resulting in a sales price which exceeded the net book
value by $19 million, which is being recognized as a reduction of rent expense
over the 15-year initial lease terms.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

     During 1998, we agreed to sell, subject to long-term management agreements,
eight lodging properties and 11 senior living communities for consideration of
$183 million and $178 million, respectively. As of December 31, 1999, sales of
all of these properties had been completed, resulting in pretax gains of $69
million. We recognized $21 million and $12 million of these gains in 1999 and
1998, respectively. The balance will be recognized provided certain
contingencies in the sales contracts expire.

     On April 3, 1997, we agreed to sell and leaseback, under long-term,
limited-recourse leases, 14 hotels for approximately $149 million in cash. At
the same time, we agreed to pay security deposits of $15 million, which will be
refunded at the end of the leases. As of January 2, 1998, all of the properties
had been sold, resulting in a sales price which exceeded the net book value by
$20 million, which is being recognized as a reduction of rent expense over the
17-year initial lease terms. On October 10, 1997, we agreed to sell and
leaseback, under long-term, limited-recourse leases, another nine limited
service hotels for approximately $129 million in cash. At the same time, we
agreed to pay security deposits of $13 million, which will be refunded at the
end of the leases. At January 1, 1999, all of the properties had been sold,
resulting in a sales price which exceeded the net book value by $17 million,
which is being recognized as a reduction of rent expense over the 15-year
initial lease terms. We can renew all of these leases at our option.

     On April 11, 1997, we sold five senior living communities for cash
consideration of approximately $79 million. On September 12, 1997, we agreed to
sell another seven senior living communities for cash consideration of
approximately $95 million. The sale of all of these properties resulted in a
pretax gain of $19 million, which is being recognized over a period of up to
four years, provided contingencies in the sales contracts expire. We continue to
operate all of these communities under long-term management agreements.

     We periodically sell, with limited recourse, notes receivable originated by
Marriott Vacation Club International in connection with the sale of timesharing
intervals. Net proceeds from these transactions totaled $195 million in 1999,
$165 million in 1998 and $68 million in 1997. Pretax gains from these
transactions increased by $3 million in 1999 compared to 1998, and by $17
million in 1998 compared to 1997. At December 31, 1999, we had a repurchase
obligation of $86 million with respect to mortgage note sales.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS



     We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis over periods of
three to 40 years. Intangible amortization expense totaled $62 million in 1999,
$54 million in 1998 and $42 million in 1997.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

INCOME TAXES

     Total deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1999 and
January 1, 1999, were as follows:



     The tax effect of each type of temporary difference and carryforward that
gives rise to a significant portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999 follows:




     At December 31, 1999, we had approximately $12 million of tax credits which
expire through 2019.

     We have made no provision for U.S. income taxes, or additional foreign
taxes, on the cumulative unremitted earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries ($145
million as of December 31, 1999) because we consider these earnings to be
permanently invested. These earnings could become subject to additional taxes if
remitted as dividends, loaned to us or a U.S. affiliate, or if we sell our
interests in the affiliates. We cannot practically estimate the amount of
additional taxes which might be payable on the unremitted earnings.

     The provision for income taxes consists of:




     The current tax provision does not reflect the benefit attributable to us
relating to the exercise of employee stock options of $44 million in 1999, $39
million in 1998 and $38 million in 1997. The taxes applicable to other
comprehensive income are not material.



                         MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

 A reconciliation of the U.S. statutory tax rate to our effective income tax
rate follows:




     Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds, was $150 million in 1999, $164
million in 1998 and $143 million in 1997.

     As part of the Spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with SMS
which reflects each party's rights and obligations with respect to deficiencies
and refunds, if any, of federal, state or other taxes relating to the business
of Old Marriott and the Company prior to the Spinoff.

     During periods prior to the Spinoff, we were included in the consolidated
federal income tax return of Old Marriott. The income tax provision reflects the
portion of Old Marriott's historical income tax provision attributable to our
operations. We believe that the income tax provision, as reflected, is
comparable to what the income tax provision would have been if we had filed a
separate return during the periods presented.

LEASES

     Our future obligations under operating leases at December 31, 1999, are
summarized below:




     Most leases have initial terms of up to 20 years, and contain one or more
renewal options, generally for five or 10 year periods. The leases provide for
minimum rentals, and additional rentals based on the operations of the leased
property. The total minimum lease payments above include $837 million
representing obligations of consolidated subsidiaries which are non-recourse to
Marriott International, Inc.


   Rent expense consists of:





                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)


LONG-TERM DEBT

  Our long-term debt at December 31, 1999 and January 1, 1999, consisted of the
following:




  In April 1999, we filed a "universal shelf" registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. That registration statement, which became
effective on May 4, 1999, originally allowed us to offer to the public up to
$500 million of debt securities, Class A Common Stock and/or preferred stock.
This "universal shelf" format provides us with additional flexibility to meet
our financing needs.

  On September 20, 1999, we sold $300 million principal amount of 7-7/8 percent
Series C Notes, which mature in 2009, in a public offering made under our shelf
registration statement. We received net proceeds of approximately $296 million
from this offering, after paying underwriting discounts, commissions and
offering expenses.

  In January 2000, we filed a second "universal shelf" registration statement
for $300 million in debt securities, Class A Common Stock and/or preferred
stock, which together with the remaining availability under the April 1999
registration statement, allows us to offer to the public up to $500 million of
securities.

  In November 1998, we issued, through a private placement, $400 million of
unsecured senior notes (Series A and B Notes). Proceeds net of discounts totaled
$396 million. On April 23, 1999, we commenced a registered exchange offer to
exchange the privately placed Series A and B Notes for publicly registered new
notes on substantially identical terms. All of the privately placed Series A and
B Notes were tendered for exchange, and new notes were issued to the holders on
May 31, 1999.

  In March 1998 and February 1999, respectively, we entered into $1.5 billion
and $500 million multicurrency revolving credit facilities (the Facilities) each
with terms of five years. Borrowings bear interest at the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread, based on our public debt rating.
Additionally, annual fees are paid on the Facilities at a rate also based on our
public debt rating. Commercial paper, supported by the Facilities, is classified
as long-term debt based on our ability and intent to refinance it on a long-term
basis.

  We are in compliance with covenants in our loan agreements which require the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and minimum shareholders' equity, and
also include, among other things, limitations on additional indebtedness and the
pledging of assets.

  The 1999 statement of cash flows excludes $215 million of convertible
subordinated debt that was converted to equity in November, 1999, $54 million of
debt that we assumed during 1999, and $15 million of notes receivable we
received in a 1999 asset sale that we subsequently sold for cash. The 1998
statement of cash flows excludes $31 million of notes receivable forgiven as
part consideration for the 1998 acquisition of The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company
LLC, and $12 million of long-term debt assumed in 1998. The 1997 statement of
cash flows excludes $226 million of debt assumed by Host Marriott, $91 million
of notes receivable related to the sale of 29 senior living communities to Host
Marriott and $12 million of debt assumed in the RHG acquisition. Non-recourse
debt of $62 million extinguished without cash payment in 1997 is not reflected
in the statement of cash flows.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

  Aggregate debt maturities are: 2000 - $18 million; 2001 - $15 million;
2002 - $795 million; 2003 - $219 million; 2004 - $14 million and $633 million
thereafter.

  Cash paid for interest was $63 million in 1999, $23 million in 1998 and $11
million in 1997.

CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBT

  On March 25, 1996, Old Marriott issued $540 million (principal amount at
maturity) of zero coupon convertible subordinated debt in the form of LYONs due
2011. The LYONs were issued and recorded at a discount representing a yield to
maturity of 4.25 percent. Accretion was recorded as interest expense and an
increase to the carrying value. Gross proceeds from the LYONs issuance were $288
million. Upon consummation of the Spinoff, we assumed the LYONs, and SMS assumed
a nine percent share of the LYONs obligation based on the relative equity values
of SMS and the Company at the Spinoff.

  The LYONs were redeemable by us at any time on or after March 25, 1999 for
cash equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount. On October
7, 1999, we delivered a mandatory redemption notice to the holders of the LYONs
indicating our plan to redeem them on November 8, 1999 for $619.65 in cash per
LYON. Holders of 347,000 LYONs elected to convert each LYON into 17.52 shares of
our Class A Common Stock and 2.19 shares of SMS common stock prior to the close
of business on November 8, 1999. The aggregate redemption payment for the
remaining 193,000 LYONs totaled $120 million. Pursuant to the LYONs Allocation
Agreement entered into with SMS as part of the Spinoff, SMS funded nine percent
of the aggregate LYONs redemption payment. We funded the redemption payment with
proceeds from commercial paper borrowings. Unamortized deferred financing costs
of $2 million relating to the LYONs that were redeemed were recognized as
interest expense in 1999.

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

  Eight hundred million shares of our Class A Common Stock with a par value of
$.01 per share are authorized. Ten million shares of preferred stock, without
par value, are authorized, with none issued.

  On March 27, 1998, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan
under which one preferred stock purchase right was distributed for each share of
our Class A Common Stock. Each right entitles the holder to buy 1/1000/th/ of a
share of a newly issued series of junior participating preferred stock of the
Company at an exercise price of $175. The rights will be exercisable ten days
after a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of
our Class A Common Stock, or begins a tender or exchange for 30 percent or more
of our Class A Common Stock. Shares owned by a person or group on March 27, 1998
and held continuously thereafter are exempt for purposes of determining
beneficial ownership under the rights plan. The rights are nonvoting and will
expire on the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the shareholder rights plan,
unless exercised or previously redeemed by us for $.01 each. If we are involved
in a merger or certain other business combinations not approved by the Board of
Directors, each right entitles its holder, other than the acquiring person or
group, to purchase common stock of either the Company or the acquirer having a
value of twice the exercise price of the right.

  As of December 31, 1999, we have been authorized by our Board of Directors to
purchase up to 5.5 million shares of our Class A Common Stock.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

EARNINGS PER SHARE


  For periods prior to the Spinoff, the earnings per share calculations are pro
forma, and the number of weighted average shares outstanding and the effect of
dilutive securities are based upon the weighted average number of Old Marriott
shares outstanding, and the Old Marriott effect of dilutive securities for the
applicable period, adjusted (1) for the distribution ratio in the Spinoff of one
share of our Common Stock and one share of our Class A Common Stock for every
share of Old Marriott common stock and (2) to reflect the conversion of our
Common Stock into our Class A Common Stock on May 21, 1998.

  The following table illustrates the reconciliation of the earnings and number
of shares used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations (in
millions, except per share amounts).



  We compute the effect of dilutive securities using the treasury stock method
and average market prices during the period. For periods prior to November 8,
1999, when all of our convertible subordinated debt was redeemed or converted,
we used the if-converted method for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per
share.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

INVESTMENTS AND NET ADVANCES FROM OLD MARRIOTT


 The following is an analysis of Old Marriott's investment in the Company:




EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS


  In connection with the Spinoff, we issued stock options, deferred shares and
restricted shares with the same value as the respective Old Marriott awards as
of the Spinoff under our 1998 Comprehensive Stock and Cash Incentive Plan
(Comprehensive Plan). Under the Comprehensive Plan, we may award to
participating employees (1) options to purchase our Class A Common Stock (Stock
Option Program and Supplemental Executive Stock Option awards), (2) deferred
shares of our Class A Common Stock and (3) restricted shares of our Class A
Common Stock. In addition we have an employee stock purchase plan (Stock
Purchase Plan). In accordance with the provisions of Opinion No. 25 of the
Accounting Principles Board, we recognize no compensation cost for the Stock
Option Program, the Supplemental Executive Stock Option awards or the Stock
Purchase Plan.

  Deferred shares granted to officers and key employees under the Comprehensive
Plan generally vest over 10 years in annual installments commencing one year
after the date of grant. Certain employees may elect to defer receipt of shares
until termination or retirement. We accrue compensation expense for the fair
market value of the shares on the date of grant, less estimated forfeitures. We
awarded 0.4 million deferred shares during 1999. Compensation cost recognized
during 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $15 million, $12 million and $9 million,
respectively.

  Restricted shares under the Comprehensive Plan are issued to officers and key
employees and distributed over a number of years in annual installments, subject
to certain prescribed conditions including continued employment. We recognize
compensation expense for the restricted shares over the restriction period equal
to the fair market value of the shares on the date of issuance. We awarded 0.1
million restricted shares under this plan during 1999. We recognized
compensation cost of $4 million, $3 million and $2 million in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

  Under the Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees may purchase our Class A
Common Stock through payroll deductions at the lower of the market value at the
beginning or end of each plan year.

  Employee stock options may be granted to officers and key employees at
exercise prices equal to the market price of our Class A Common Stock on the
date of grant. Nonqualified options expire up to 15 years after the date of
grant. Most options under the Stock Option Program are exercisable in cumulative
installments of one quarter at the end of each of the first four years following
the date of grant. In February 1997, 2.1 million Supplemental Executive Stock
Option awards were awarded to certain of our officers. The options vest after
eight years but could vest earlier if our stock price meets certain performance
criteria. These options have an exercise price of $25 and 0.2 million of them
were forfeited during 1998. None of them were exercised during 1999, 1998 or
1997 and 1.9 million remained outstanding at December 31, 1999.

  For the purposes of the following disclosures required by FAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the fair value of each option granted
during 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $14, $11 and $13, respectively. We estimated the
fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, using the assumptions noted in the following table.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)



  Pro forma compensation cost for the Stock Option Program, the Supplemental
Executive Stock Option awards and employee purchases pursuant to the Stock
Purchase Plan subsequent to December 30, 1994, recognized in accordance with FAS
No. 123, would reduce our net income as follows (in millions, except per share
amounts):




 A summary of our Stock Option Program activity during 1999 and 1998 is
presented below:




  At December 31, 1999, 49.2 million shares were reserved under the
Comprehensive Plan (including 31.5 million shares under the Stock Option Program
and 1.9 million shares of the Supplemental Executive Stock Option awards) and
4.2 million shares were reserved under the Stock Purchase Plan.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

  Stock options issued under the Stock Option Program outstanding at December
31, 1999 were as follows:




FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

  We assume that the fair values of current assets and current liabilities are
equal to their reported carrying amounts. The fair values of noncurrent
financial assets and liabilities are shown below.




  We value notes and other receivables based on the expected future cash flows
discounted at risk adjusted rates. We determine valuations for long-term debt,
convertible subordinated debt and other long-term liabilities based on quoted
market prices or expected future payments discounted at risk adjusted rates.

CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

  We issue guarantees to lenders and other third parties in connection with
financing transactions and other obligations. These guarantees were limited, in
the aggregate, to $193 million at December 31, 1999, including guarantees
involving major customers, with expected funding of zero. As of December 31,
1999, we had extended approximately $352 million of loan commitments to owners
of lodging and senior living properties. Letters of credit outstanding on our
behalf at December 31, 1999, totaled $74 million, the majority of which related
to our self-insurance programs. At December 31, 1999, we had repurchase
obligations of $86 million related to notes receivable from timeshare interval
purchasers, which have been sold with limited recourse.

  New World Development and another affiliate of Dr. Cheng, a director of the
Company, have severally indemnified us for guarantees by us of leases with
minimum annual payments of approximately $59 million.

  On February 23, 2000, we entered into an agreement, which was subsequently
embodied in a definitive agreement executed on March 9, 2000, to resolve pending
litigation described below involving certain limited partnerships formed in the
mid- to late 1980's. Consummation of the settlement is subject to numerous
conditions, including the receipt of third-party consents and court approval.
The agreement was reached with lead counsel to the plaintiffs in the lawsuits
described below, and with the special litigation committee appointed by the
general partner of two of the partnerships, Courtyard by Marriott Limited
Partnership (CBM I) and Courtyard by Marriott II Limited Partnership (CBM II).
Because of the numerous conditions to be satisfied, there can be no assurances
that the settlement transactions will be consummated and, if consummated, terms
could differ materially from those described below.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

  Under the agreement, we will acquire, through an unconsolidated joint venture
with Host Marriott, all of the limited partners' interests in CBM I and CBM II
for approximately $372 million. These partnerships own 120 Courtyard by Marriott
hotels. The purchase price will be financed with $185 million in mezzanine debt
loaned to the joint venture by us and with equity contributed in equal shares by
us and Host Marriott. We will continue to manage these 120 hotels under long-
term agreements. Also, we and Host Marriott each have agreed to pay
approximately $31 million to the plaintiffs in the Texas Multi-Partnership
lawsuit described below in exchange for dismissal of the complaints and full
releases.

  We recorded a pretax charge of $39 million which is included in corporate
expenses in the fourth quarter of 1999, to reflect these anticipated settlement
transactions. However, if the foregoing settlement transactions are not
consummated, and either a less favorable settlement is entered into, or the
lawsuits are tried and decided adversely to the Company, we could incur losses
significantly different than the pretax charge associated with the settlement
agreement described above.

  Courtyard by Marriott II Limited Partnership
  On June 7, 1996, a group of partners in CBM II filed a lawsuit against Host
Marriott, the Company and others, Whitey Ford, et al. v. Host Marriott
Corporation, et al., in the 285/th/ Judicial District Court of Bexar County,
Texas, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, tortious interference, violation of the Texas Free Enterprise
and Antitrust Act of 1983 and conspiracy in connection with the formation,
operation and management of CBM II and its hotels. The plaintiffs sought
unspecified damages. On January 29, 1998, two other limited partners, A.R.
Milkes and D. R. Burklew, filed a petition in intervention seeking to convert
the lawsuit into a class action, and a class was certified. In March 1999, Palm
Investors, L.L.C., the assignee of a number of limited partnership units
acquired through various tender offers, and Equity Resource, an assignee,
through various of its funds, of a number of limited partnership units, filed
pleas in intervention, which among other things added additional claims relating
to the 1993 split of Marriott Corporation and to the 1995 refinancing of CBM
II's indebtedness. On August 17, 1999, the general partner of CBM II appointed
an independent special litigation committee to investigate the derivative claims
described above and to recommend to the general partner whether it is in the
best interests of CBM II for the derivative litigation to proceed. The general
partner agreed to adopt the recommendation of the committee. Under Delaware law,
the recommendation of a duly appointed independent litigation committee is
binding on the general partner and the limited partners. Following certain
adjustments to the underlying complaints, including the assertion as derivative
claims some of the claims previously filed as individual claims, a final amended
class action complaint was filed on January 6, 2000. Trial, which was scheduled
to begin in late February, 2000, has been postponed pending approval and
consummation of the settlement described above.

  Texas Multi-Partnership Lawsuit
  On March 16, 1998, limited partners in several limited partnerships sponsored
by Host Marriott or its subsidiaries filed a lawsuit, Robert M. Haas, Sr. and
Irwin Randolph Joint Tenants, et al. v. Marriott International, Inc., et al., in
the 57/th/ Judicial District Court of Bexar County, Texas, alleging that the
defendants conspired to sell hotels to the partnerships for inflated prices and
that they charged the partnerships excessive management fees to operate the
partnerships' hotels. The plaintiffs further allege that the defendants
committed fraud, breached fiduciary duties and violated the provisions of
various contracts. A Marriott International subsidiary manages each of the
hotels involved and, as to some properties, the Company is the ground lessor and
collects rent. The Company, several Marriott subsidiaries and J.W. Marriott, Jr.
are among the several named defendants. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified
damages.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

  We are a diversified hospitality company with operations in three business
segments: Lodging, which includes the franchising, ownership, operation and
development of lodging properties including vacation timesharing resorts; Senior
Living Services, which consists of the operation, ownership and development of
senior living communities; and Distribution Services, which operates a wholesale
food distribution business. We evaluate the performance of our segments based
primarily on operating profit before corporate expenses and interest. We do not
allocate income taxes at the segment level.



  Sales of Distribution Services exclude sales (made at market terms and
conditions) to other segments of $166 million, $155 million and $159 million in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

  Segment operating expenses include selling, general and administrative
expenses directly related to the operations of the businesses, aggregating $529
million in 1999, $496 million in 1998 and $435 million in 1997.

  The consolidated financial statements include the following related to
international operations: sales of $392 million in 1999, $323 million in 1998,
and $294 million in 1997; operating profit before corporate expenses and
interest of $66 million in 1999, $49 million in 1998, and $50 million in 1997;
and fixed assets of $102 million in 1999, $102 million in 1998, and $112 million
in 1997.



                          MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued)

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA - UNAUDITED

($ in millions, except per share data)






/1/ The quarters consist of 12 weeks, except the fourth quarter, which consists
    of 16 weeks.
/2/ Systemwide sales comprise revenues generated from guests at owned, leased,
    managed and franchised hotels and senior living communities, together with
    sales of our other businesses.
/3/ The sum of the earnings per share for the four quarters may differ from
    annual earnings per share due to the required method of computing the
    weighted average number of shares in interim periods.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.



                                    PART III


ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.

  As described below, certain information appearing in our Proxy Statement to be
furnished to shareholders in connection with the 2000 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K Annual Report.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

 Set forth below is certain information with respect to our executive officers.

















                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  LIST OF DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

     (1)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

               The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted under Item 8
               of this Report on Form 10-K.

     (2)  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


               All schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
               accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
               are not required under the related instructions or are
               inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

     (3)  EXHIBITS


               Any shareholder who wants a copy of the following Exhibits may
               obtain one from us upon request at a charge that reflects the
               reproduction cost of such Exhibits. Requests should be made to
               the Secretary, Marriott International, Inc., Marriott Drive,
               Department 52/862, Washington, D.C. 20058.












_____________________________

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


  On September 20, 1999, we filed a report describing the issuance of $300
million of 7-7/8 percent Series C Notes due 2009 in an underwritten public
offering.



SIGNATURES


  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 we have duly caused this Form 10-K to be signed on our behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 10th day of March, 2000.

MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By /s/ J.W. Marriott, Jr.
  ---------------------------
        J.W. Marriott, Jr.
     Chief Executive Officer

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Form
10-K has been signed by the following persons on our behalf in their capacities
and on the date indicated above.





                                      S-1

