
10-K405
FORM 10-K TO ANNUAL REPORT



 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
         /X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Fee Required
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                       or
         / / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 No Fee Required
             For the transition period from                 to
                                            ----------------   -------

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-1204
 
                            ------------------------
 
                            AMERADA HESS CORPORATION
 
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                                    DELAWARE
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                   13-4921002
                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 
    1185 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y.                 10036
      (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)
                                                             
    (Registrant's telephone number, including area code, is (212) 997-8500)
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

                                                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
     TITLE OF EACH CLASS                          ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -------------------                         ---------------------
Common Stock (par value $1.00)                  New York Stock Exchange
                                                Toronto Stock Exchange 
                             
 
       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:  None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No
                                               ---     ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/
     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant amounted to $3,892,000,000 as of February 28, 1995.
     At February 28, 1995, 92,992,755 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.
     Certain items in Parts I and II incorporate information by reference from
the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders and Part III is incorporated by reference
from the Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 3, 1995.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
     Amerada Hess Corporation (the "Registrant") was incorporated in 1920 in the
State of Delaware. The Registrant and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to
herein as the "Corporation") are engaged in the exploration for and the
production, purchase, gathering, transportation and sale of crude oil and
natural gas and the manufacture, purchase, transportation and marketing of
refined products.
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
     The Corporation's exploration and production activities are located
primarily in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Norwegian sectors
of the North Sea and Gabon. The Corporation also conducts exploration and/or
production activities in Abu Dhabi, Denmark, Egypt, Namibia and Thailand. Of the
Company's proved reserves (on a barrel of oil equivalent basis), 34% are located
in the United States, 50% are located in the United Kingdom and Norwegian
sectors of the North Sea, 12% are located in Canada and the remainder are
located in Gabon and Abu Dhabi. Worldwide crude oil and natural gas liquids
production amounted to 250,520 barrels per day in 1994 compared with 215,390
barrels per day in 1993. Worldwide natural gas production was 846,118 Mcf per
day in 1994 compared with 887,309 Mcf per day in 1993.
 
     At December 31, 1994, the Corporation has 644 million barrels of proved
crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves compared with 670 million barrels at
the end of 1993. Proved natural gas reserves are 2,581 million Mcf at December
31, 1994 compared with 2,653 million Mcf at December 31, 1993. The Corporation
has an inventory of drillable prospects primarily in the United States, Canada
and the United Kingdom and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
 
     UNITED STATES.  The Corporation operates principally offshore in the Gulf
of Mexico and onshore in the states of Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota. During
1994, 27% of the Corporation's crude oil and natural gas liquids production and
50% of its natural gas production were from United States operations.
 
     The table below sets forth the Corporation's average daily net production
by area in the United States:
 

 
     CANADA.  The Corporation, through its wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary,
Amerada Hess Canada Ltd., conducts operations in the Provinces of Alberta and
British Columbia. The Corporation's net crude oil and natural gas liquids
production in Canada amounted to 12,390 barrels per day in 1994 compared to
13,492 barrels per day in 1993, and its natural gas production increased to
185,856 Mcf per day in 1994 from 167,839 Mcf per day in 1993.
 

 
     UNITED KINGDOM.  The Corporation's activities in the United Kingdom are
conducted by its wholly-owned British subsidiary, Amerada Hess Limited. During
1994, 51% of the Corporation's crude oil and natural gas liquids production and
25% of its natural gas production were from United Kingdom operations.
 
     The table below sets forth the Corporation's average daily net production
in the United Kingdom by field and the Corporation's interest in each at
December 31, 1994:
 

 
     Crude oil production commenced from the Scott and Hudson Fields in the
third quarter of 1993. Natural gas production commenced from the Everest and
Lomond Fields in mid-1993.
 
     NORWAY.  The Corporation's activities in Norway are conducted through its
wholly-owned Norwegian subsidiary, Amerada Hess Norge A/S. The Corporation's
Norwegian operations accounted for crude oil and natural gas liquids production
of 25,599 and 27,820 net barrels per day in 1994 and 1993, respectively.
Approximately 60% of this production is from the Corporation's 28.09% interest
in the Valhall Field.
 
     GABON.  The Corporation has a 5.5% interest in the Rabi Kounga oil field
onshore Gabon. The Corporation's share of production from Gabon averaged 8,746
and 8,136 net barrels of crude oil per day in 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
REFINING AND MARKETING
 
     The Corporation's refining facilities are located in St. Croix, United
States Virgin Islands and Port Reading, New Jersey. The Purvis, Mississippi
refinery was mothballed in early 1994. Total crude runs averaged 388,000 barrels
per day in 1994 and 351,000 barrels per day in 1993. The Corporation's
production supplied approximately 15% of its crude runs. The balance came from
various suppliers under contracts of one year or less and through spot purchases
on the open market. Approximately 80% of the refined products marketed in 1994
was obtained from the Corporation's refineries. The Corporation purchased the
balance from other companies under short-term supply contracts and by spot
purchases from various sources. Sales of refined products averaged 468,000
barrels per day in 1994 compared with 386,000 barrels per day in 1993.
 
     HESS OIL VIRGIN ISLANDS REFINERY.  The Corporation owns and operates a
petroleum refinery in St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands through its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corp. ("HOVIC").
 

 
In 1994, refined products produced were approximately 65% gasoline and
distillates, 10% refinery feedstocks and the remainder principally residual fuel
oil. In addition to crude distillation capacity, the refinery has a fluid
catalytic cracking unit which commenced production in the fourth quarter of 1993
and increased gasoline production. The refinery also has catalytic reforming
units, vacuum distillation capacity, visbreakers, a sulfolane unit, a penex
unit, distillate desulfurizers, vacuum gas oil desulfurizers and sulfur recovery
facilities. The refinery has approximately 31 million barrels of storage
capacity.
 
     The refinery has the capability to process a variety of crude oils,
including high-sulfur crudes. The refinery has a 60-foot-deep harbor and docking
facilities for ten ocean-going tankers at one time. The refinery's harbor
accommodates very large crude carriers after a portion of their crude oil cargo
is lightered at the Corporation's storage and transshipment facility in Saint
Lucia, which has a 90-foot-deep harbor. The Saint Lucia facility has
approximately 9 million barrels of storage capacity.
 
     PORT READING FACILITY.  The Corporation owns and operates a fluid catalytic
cracking facility in Port Reading, New Jersey, which processes vacuum gas oil
and operates at a rate of approximately 54,000 barrels per day. The Port Reading
facility primarily produces gasoline and heating oil.
 
     MARKETING.  The Corporation markets refined petroleum products principally
on the East and Gulf Coasts of the United States to the motoring public,
wholesale distributors, industrial and commercial users, other petroleum
companies, commercial airlines, governmental agencies and public utilities.
 
     At December 31, 1994, the Corporation has 541 HESS(R) gasoline stations of
which approximately 82% are operated by the Corporation. Most of the
Corporation's stations are concentrated in highly-populated, urban areas,
principally in New York, New Jersey and Florida. Of the Corporation's stations,
155 have HESS MART(R) convenience stores. The Corporation owns in fee
approximately 75% of the properties on which its stations are located. The
Corporation also has 46 terminals located throughout its marketing area, with
aggregate storage capacity of approximately 49 million barrels.
 
COMPETITION AND MARKET CONDITIONS
 
     The petroleum industry is highly competitive. The Corporation encounters
competition from numerous companies in each of its activities, particularly in
acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas and in the purchasing
and marketing of refined products. Many competitors are larger and have
substantially greater resources than the Corporation. The Corporation is also in
competition with producers and marketers of other forms of energy.
 
     The petroleum business involves large-scale capital expenditures and
risk-taking. In the search for new oil and gas reserves, long lead times are
often required from successful exploration to subsequent production. Operations
in the petroleum industry depend on a depleting natural resource. The number of
areas where it can be expected that hydrocarbons will be discovered in
commercial quantities is constantly diminishing and exploration risks are high.
Areas where hydrocarbons may be found are often in remote locations or offshore
where exploration and development activities are capital intensive and operating
costs are high. In addition, low crude oil prices have reduced the number of
areas from which hydrocarbons can be economically produced.
 
     The major foreign oil producing countries, including the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC"), exert considerable influence over the
supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products. Their ability or
inability to agree on a common policy on rates of production, oil prices, and
other matters has a significant impact on the oil market and the Corporation. In
recent years, the futures markets have become increasingly important in
influencing the prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. The
Corporation cannot predict the extent to which future market conditions may be
affected by OPEC, the futures markets or other external influences.
 

 
     Market conditions continue to affect the Corporation's earnings. The
Corporation's refining and marketing operations were profitable in 1994,
reflecting higher margins than in 1993, the operation of the fluid catalytic
cracking unit and increased refinery runs. However, the selling prices of all
refined products, particularly gasolines, continue to be subject to competitive
industry conditions. Supply and demand factors, including the effects of
weather, will continue to affect all refined product markets.
 
     The Corporation's exploration and production operations were also
profitable in 1994, but continue to be impacted by volatility in the selling
prices of crude oil and natural gas. Average worldwide crude oil selling prices
declined in 1994, but improved somewhat late in the year. In 1994, the available
supply of natural gas in the United States exceeded demand, resulting in sharply
lower selling prices. The lower natural gas selling prices continued into 1995
and the Corporation is unable to predict how long these conditions will exist.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
     The Corporation's operations may be affected by federal, state, local,
territorial and foreign laws and regulations relating to tax increases and
retroactive tax claims, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract
rights, and changes in import regulations, as well as other political
developments. The Corporation has been affected by certain of these events in
various countries in which it operates. The Corporation markets motor fuels
through lessee-dealers and wholesalers in certain states where legislation
prohibits producers or refiners of crude oil from directly engaging in retail
marketing of motor fuels. Similar legislation is periodically proposed in
Congress and in various other states. The Corporation, at this time, cannot
predict the effect of any of the foregoing on its future operations.
 
     Compliance with the various environmental and pollution control regulations
imposed by federal, state and local governments is not expected to have a
materially adverse effect on the Corporation's earnings and competitive position
within the industry. However, the cost of such compliance is expected to
increase in the future. Capital expenditures for facilities, primarily to comply
with federal, state and local environmental standards, were $8 million in 1994
and the Corporation anticipates comparable capital expenditures in 1995. In
addition, the Corporation expended $16 million in 1994 for environmental
remediation, with a comparable amount anticipated for 1995.
 
     The number of persons employed by the Corporation averaged 9,858 in 1994
and 10,173 in 1993.
 
     Additional operating and financial information relating to the business and
properties of the Corporation appears on pages 6 and 9 under the heading "United
States Exploration and Production," on pages 10, 13 and 14 under the heading
"International Exploration and Production," on pages 17 and 18 under the heading
"Refining and Marketing," on pages 21 through 25 under the heading "Financial
Review" and on pages 26 through 51 of the accompanying 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
* Except as to information specifically incorporated herein by reference under
  Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8, no other information or data appearing in the 1994
  Annual Report to Stockholders is deemed to be filed with the Securities and
  Exchange Commission (SEC) as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or
  otherwise subject to the SEC's regulations or the liabilities of Section 18 of
  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 

 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     Reference is made to Item 1 and the operating and financial information
relating to the business and properties of the Corporation, which is
incorporated in Item 1 by reference.
 
     Additional information relating to the Corporation's oil and gas operations
follows.
 
1. OIL AND GAS RESERVES
 
     The Corporation's net proved oil and gas reserves at the end of 1994, 1993
and 1992 are presented under Supplementary Oil and Gas Data in the accompanying
1994 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     During 1994, the Corporation provided oil and gas reserve estimates for
1993 to the Department of Energy. Such estimates are compatible with the
information furnished to the SEC on Form 10-K, although not necessarily directly
comparable due to the requirements of the individual requests. There were no
differences in excess of 5%.
 
     The Corporation has no long-term contracts or agreements to supply fixed
quantities of its crude oil production. Approximately 60% of the Corporation's
1994 natural gas sales were made under long-term contracts to various
purchasers. Contractual commitments in 1995 (which are expected to be comparable
to 1994) will be filled from the Corporation's production and from contractual
purchases.
 
2. AVERAGE SELLING PRICES AND AVERAGE PRODUCTION COSTS
 

 
     Note A: Includes inter-company transfers valued at approximate market
prices and the effect of the Corporation's hedging activities.
 

 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     Note B: Production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate
and maintain the Corporation's producing oil and gas wells and related equipment
and facilities, including severance and other related production taxes. The
average production (lifting) costs per barrel of production reflect the crude
oil equivalent of natural gas production converted on the basis of relative
energy content.
 
     The foregoing tabulation does not include substantial costs and charges
applicable to finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, nor does it
reflect significant outlays for related general and administrative expenses,
interest expense and income taxes.
 
3. GROSS AND NET DEVELOPED ACREAGE AND PRODUCTIVE WELLS AT DECEMBER 31, 1994
 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     Note A: Includes multiple completion wells (wells producing from different
formations in the same bore hole) totaling 240 gross wells and 123 net wells.
 
4. GROSS AND NET UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE AT DECEMBER 31, 1994
 

 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 
5. NUMBER OF NET EXPLORATORY AND DEVELOPMENT WELLS DRILLED
 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
6. NUMBER OF WELLS IN PROCESS OF DRILLING AT DECEMBER 31, 1994
 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
7. NUMBER OF WATERFLOODS AND PRESSURE MAINTENANCE PROJECTS IN PROCESS OF
   INSTALLATION AT DECEMBER 31, 1994 -- None
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Registrant is currently the subject of an investigation by United
States Attorneys for the federal judicial district in New Jersey and the United
States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") with respect to possible
violations of federal environmental and other laws and regulations in connection
with hazardous waste handling at the HOVIC refinery. That investigation
apparently focuses on whether or not certain spent catalyst generated at the
HOVIC refinery should have been managed as a hazardous waste under the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), and, if it should have been managed as a
hazardous waste, whether or not such catalyst was stored beyond the time period
permitted under RCRA, whether or not Registrant and/or HOVIC failed to comply
with certain environmental reporting requirements related thereto and whether or
not any false statements were made to the United States government by employees
of the Registrant or HOVIC in connection therewith. The Registrant is also the
subject of an investigation by United States Attorneys for the federal judicial
district in Arizona arising out of the shipment of such catalyst to a third
party in Arizona. This investigation apparently focuses on whether or not
Registrant or HOVIC participated in a failure to comply in a timely manner with
certain reporting obligations in connection with the use and receipt of such
catalyst by such third party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, and whether or not employees of the Registrant
or HOVIC made any false statements to the United States government in connection
therewith. It is not possible at this time for Registrant to state what the
outcome of these investigations will be, or, if any proceedings arising out of
the
 

 
investigations were to be commenced against the Registrant or HOVIC, what claims
would be asserted or what relief would be sought.
 
     On April 27, 1993, the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
("TNRCC", then known as the Texas Water Commission) notified the Registrant of
alleged violation of the Texas Water Code as a result of alleged discharges of
hydrocarbon compounds into the groundwater in the vicinity of the Registrant's
terminal in Corpus Christi, Texas. Penalties provided for these violations
include administrative penalties not to exceed $10,000 per day. The Registrant
has undertaken a groundwater assessment, an interim correction measures program
and other appropriate responses to these allegations. On December 9, 1994, the
Executive Director of the TNRCC forwarded a Notice of Executive Director's
Preliminary Report and Petition for a TNRCC Order Assessing Administrative
Penalties and Requiring Certain Actions of Amerada Hess Corporation. This Notice
recommended a $542,400 penalty be assessed and the Registrant be ordered to
undertake remedial actions at the Corpus Christi terminal. The Registrant has
begun settlement discussions with the TNRCC regarding this matter.
 
     On June 21, 1994, Region II of the EPA commenced an administrative
proceeding under Section 325 of the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to-Know Act ("EPCRA") against HOVIC, alleging violations of Section 313 of
EPCRA arising out of HOVIC's alleged failure to comply with certain reporting
requirements relating to toxic chemicals manufactured or otherwise used at
HOVIC's refinery. The proceeding seeks civil penalties totaling $252,000 for the
alleged violations. HOVIC is engaging in settlement discussions with the EPA
regarding this matter.
 
     The Corporation periodically receives notices from the EPA that the
Corporation is a "potentially responsible party" under the Superfund legislation
with respect to various waste disposal sites. Under this legislation, all
potentially responsible parties are jointly and severally liable. For certain
sites, EPA's claims or assertions of liability against the Corporation relating
to these sites have not been fully developed. With respect to the remaining
sites, EPA's claims have been settled, or a proposed settlement is under
consideration, in all cases for amounts which are not material. The ultimate
impact of these proceedings, and of any related proceedings by private parties,
on the business or accounts of the Corporation cannot be predicted at this time
due to the large number of other potentially responsible parties and the
speculative nature of clean-up cost estimates, but is not expected to be
material.
 
     The Corporation is from time to time involved in other judicial and
administrative proceedings, including proceedings relating to other
environmental matters. Although the ultimate outcome of these proceedings cannot
be ascertained at this time and some of them may be resolved adversely to the
Corporation, no such proceeding is required to be disclosed under applicable
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In management's opinion, based
upon currently known facts and circumstances, such proceedings in the aggregate
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Corporation.
 

 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     During the fourth quarter of 1994, no matter was submitted to a vote of
security holders through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The following table presents information as of February 1, 1995 regarding
executive officers of the Registrant:
 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     * All officers referred to herein hold office in accordance with the
By-Laws until the first meeting of the Directors following the annual meeting of
stockholders of the Registrant, and until their successors shall have been duly
chosen and qualified. Each of said officers was elected to the office set forth
opposite his name on May 4, 1994, except that Mr. Press was elected to his
present office by the Board of Directors at its regular meeting on October 5,
1994. The first meeting of Directors following the next annual meeting of
stockholders of the Registrant is scheduled to be held May 3, 1995.
 
     Except for Messrs. Schreyer and Press, each of the above officers has been
employed by the Registrant in various managerial and executive capacities for
more than five years. Prior to his employment with the Registrant in July 1990,
Mr. Schreyer was a partner with the accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP. Prior
to his employment with the Registrant in October 1994, Mr. Press was a Senior
Vice President of BP Oil Company, a unit of The British Petroleum Company p.l.c.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     Information pertaining to the market for the Registrant's Common Stock,
high and low sales prices of the Common Stock in 1994 and 1993, dividend
payments and restrictions thereon and the number of holders of Common Stock is
presented on page 25 (Financial Review), page 33 (Long-Term Debt) and on page 48
(Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data) of the accompanying 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which has been incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     A Ten-Year Summary of Financial Data is presented on pages 46 through 49 of
the accompanying 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The information required by this item is presented on pages 21 through 25
of the accompanying 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The consolidated financial statements, including the Report of Ernst &
Young LLP, Independent Auditors, the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (unaudited)
and the Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) are presented on pages 25 through
45 of the accompanying 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders, which has been
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
                            ------------------------
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information relating to Directors is incorporated herein by reference to
"Election of Directors" from the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 3, 1995.
 
     Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information relating to executive compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to "Election of Directors-Executive Compensation and Other
Information," other than information under "Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and "Performance Graph" included therein, from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 3, 1995.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information pertaining to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management is incorporated herein by reference to "Election of
Directors-Ownership of Voting Securities by Certain Beneficial Owners" and
"Election of Directors-Ownership of Equity Securities by Management" from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 3, 1995.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Information relating to this item is incorporated herein by reference to
"Election of Directors" from the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 3, 1995.
 
                            ------------------------
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (A) 1. AND 2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
             The financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report on
        Form 10-K are listed in the accompanying index to financial statements
        and schedules.
 
         3. EXHIBITS
 

 

 
         3. EXHIBITS (continued)
 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
* These exhibits relate to executive compensation plans and arrangements.
 
     (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of Registrant's
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 24TH DAY OF
MARCH 1995.
 
                                            AMERADA HESS CORPORATION
                                                 (REGISTRANT)
 
                                            By    /s/  JOHN Y. SCHREYER
                                               ..............................
                                                      (JOHN Y. SCHREYER)
                                                 EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND
                                                   CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 

 

 

 
             AMERADA HESS CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
 

 

     * The financial statements and notes thereto together with the Report of
Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, on pages 26 through 40, the Quarterly
Financial Data (unaudited) on page 25, and the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data
(unaudited) on pages 41 through 45 of the accompanying 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     ** All schedules have been omitted because of the absence of the conditions
under which they are required or because the required information is presented
in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
 
                                       F-1

 
                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
     We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) of Amerada Hess Corporation of our report dated February 15, 1995,
included in the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders of Amerada Hess Corporation.
 
     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-39816) pertaining to the Amerada Hess Corporation
Employees' Savings and Stock Bonus Plan, of our report dated February 15, 1995,
with respect to the consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by
reference.
 
                                            /S/  ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                                 ERNST & YOUNG LLP
New York, N.Y.
March 24, 1995
 
                                       F-2

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 

 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
* These exhibits relate to executive compensation plans and arrangements.

