
10-K405
SMUCKER'S    10-K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For the Fiscal Year Ended April 30, 1996

             ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                          Commission File Number 1-5111

                            THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

       Ohio                                             34-0538550
State of Incorporation                       I.R.S. Employer Identification No.

                               One Strawberry Lane
                            Orrville, Ohio 44667-0280
                           Principal executive offices

                        Telephone number: (330) 682-3000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Class A Common Shares, no par value                        Registered on the
Class B Common Shares, no par value                     New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

The Registrant has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and has
been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

As of July 3, 1996, 14,375,149 Class A Common Shares and 14,782,339 Class B
Common Shares of The J. M. Smucker Company were issued and outstanding. The
aggregate market value of the voting Common Shares (Class A) held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant at July 3, 1996, was $219,650,391.

Certain sections of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, dated July 10,
1996, for the August 13, 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and of the 1996
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II,
III and IV of this Report.






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         THE COMPANY.  The J. M. Smucker Company was begun in 1897 and was
incorporated in Ohio in 1921.  The Company,  often referred to as  Smucker's (a
registered trademark), operates in one industry, the manufacturing and
marketing of food products on a worldwide basis.  Unless otherwise
indicated by the context, the term "Company" as used in this report means the
continuing operations of The J. M. Smucker Company and its subsidiaries.

         DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS. On May 31, 1996, the Company completed the
sale of its Mrs. Smith's frozen pie business to a subsidiary of Flowers
Industries, Inc. called Mrs. Smith's Bakeries, Inc. ("Flowers Industries") for a
combination of cash, notes receivable, and assumption of certain liabilities. In
return for the inventory, intangible assets, and certain components of working
capital of Mrs. Smith's, the Company received $15,000,000 in cash, a $15,000,000
note, and a commitment by Flowers Industries to purchase during fiscal 1997
approximately $29,900,000 in inventory. In connection with this divestiture, the
Company also has entered into agreements to lease property, plant, and equipment
of the Mrs. Smith's frozen pie business to Flowers Industries under 10-year
operating lease agreements, which include the exclusive right and option to
purchase such assets during the term of the leases. The future minimum rental
revenue from these leases is approximately $31,850,000.

         PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS. The principal products of the Company are fruit
spreads, dessert toppings, syrups, peanut butter, industrial fruit products
(such as bakery and yogurt fillings), fruit and vegetable juices, juice
beverages, pie fillings, condiments, and gift packages.

         The Company is structured around six strategic business areas:
Consumer, Beverage, International, Foodservice, Industrial, and Specialty Foods.
Within the domestic markets, the Company's products are primarily sold through
brokers to chain, wholesale, cooperative, and independent grocery accounts and
other consumer markets, and to foodservice distributors and chains including
hotels, restaurants, and institutions. Industrial products such as bakery and
fruit fillings are typically sold directly to other food manufacturers and
marketers for inclusion in their products.

         The Company's distribution outside the United States is principally in
Canada, Australia and the Pacific Rim, and Latin America, although products are
exported to other countries as well. International sales represent approximately
13% of total continuing Company sales.

         SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS. The fruit raw materials used
by the Company in the production of its food products are generally purchased
from independent growers and suppliers, although the Company grows some
strawberries for its own use. Because of the seasonal nature and volatility of
quantities of most of the crops on which the Company depends, it is necessary to
prepare and freeze stocks of fruit, fruit juices, berries, and other food
products and to maintain them in cold storage warehouses. Sweeteners, peanuts,
and other ingredients are obtained from various other sources.







         PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS. The Company's products are marketed under
numerous trademarks owned by the Company. The principal trademarks are the
Company's names and certain designs of products. Major trademarks include:
Smucker's, The R. W. Knudsen Family, After The Fall, Mary Ellen, Dickinson's,
Lost Acres, IXL, Laura Scudder's, Simply Fruit, Good Morning, Double Fruit,
Super Spreaders, Low Sugar, Goober, Magic Shell, Sundae Syrup, Recharge, Santa
Cruz Original, Spritzer, and Heinke. In addition, the Company licenses the use
of several other trademarks, none of which individually is material to the
Company's business.

         Other slogans or designs considered to be important trademarks to the
Company include the slogan, "With a name like Smucker's, it has to be good," the
Smucker's banner, the Crock Jar shape, the Gingham design, and the strawberry
logo.

         SEASONALITY.  Historically, the Company's business has not been highly
seasonal.

         WORKING CAPITAL. Working capital requirements are greatest during the
late spring and summer months due to seasonal procurement of fruits, berries,
and peanuts. During this period, short-term borrowing may be used to augment
working capital generated by sales.

         CUSTOMERS. The Company is not dependent either on a single customer or
on a very few customers for a major part of its sales. No single domestic or
foreign customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated sales.

         ORDERS.  Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt and
the backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time is not material.

         GOVERNMENT BUSINESS.  The Company has no material portion of its
business which may be subject to negotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of the government.

         COMPETITION. The Company is the U.S. market leader in the fruit spread,
ice cream topping, and natural peanut butter categories. The Company's business
is highly competitive as all its brands compete for retail shelf space with
other advertised and branded products as well as unadvertised and private label
products. The rapid growth of alternative store formats (i.e. warehouse club and
mass merchandise stores) and changes in business practices, resulting from both
technological advances and new industry techniques, have added additional
variables for companies in the food industry to consider in order to remain
competitive. The principal methods of and factors in competition are product
quality, price, advertising, and promotion.

         RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. The Company predominantly utilizes in-house
programs to both develop new products and improve existing products in each of
its strategic business areas. In relation to consolidated assets and operating
expenses, amounts expensed in each of the areas or in the aggregate were not
material in any of the last three years.

         ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. Compliance with the provisions of federal,
state, and local environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of
materials into the environment or the protection of the environment is not
expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or
competitive position of the Company.

         EMPLOYEES.  At April 30, 1996, the Company had approximately 1,925
full-time employees, worldwide.








         SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION. Information concerning
international operations for the years 1996, 1995, and 1994 is hereby
incorporated by reference from the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, on page
20 under Note B: "Operating Segments."

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         The table below lists all the Company's manufacturing and fruit
processing facilities. All of the Company's properties are maintained and
updated on a regular basis, and the Company continues to make investment for
expansion and technological improvements. All production properties listed below
are owned except the facility in Oxnard, California, which is leased. In
addition to the locations listed below, acreage is leased in California for the
growing of strawberries. The Company also leases property in Pottstown,
Pennsylvania to Mrs. Smith's Bakeries, Inc., a subsidiary of Flowers Industries,
Inc. The corporate headquarters are located in Orrville, Ohio.











ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The Company is not a party to any pending legal proceeding which would
be considered material.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSIONS OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

         The names, ages as of July 1, 1996, and positions of the executive
officers of the Company are listed below. All executive officers serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Directors, with no fixed term of office. Paul H.
Smucker is the father of Tim and Richard K. Smucker and the father-in-law of H.
Reid Wagstaff. All of the officers have held various positions with the Company
for more than five years.










                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The information pertaining to the market for the Company's Common
Shares and other related shareholder information is hereby incorporated by
reference from the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders under the
caption "Stock Price Data" on page 9.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         Five year summaries of selected financial data for the Company and
discussions of accounting changes which materially affect the comparability of
the selected financial data are hereby incorporated by reference from the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders under the following captions and
page numbers: "Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page 8; Note C:
"Acquisitions and Divestitures" on pages 20 and 21.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

         Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and
financial condition, including a discussion of liquidity and capital resources,
is hereby incorporated by reference from the Company's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders, on pages 10 and 11.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         Consolidated financial statements of the Company at April 30, 1996,
1995, and 1994, and for each of the three years in the period ended April 30,
1996, with the report of independent auditors and selected unaudited quarterly
financial data, are hereby incorporated by reference from the Company's 1996
Annual Report to Shareholders on page 9 and pages 12 through 27.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.





                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Information regarding directors and nominees for directorship is
incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement,
dated July 10, 1996, for the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 13,
1996, on pages 2 through 4, under the caption "Election of Directors." For
information concerning the Company's executive officers, see "Executive Officers
of the Company" set forth in Part I hereof.

         Information regarding disclosure of late filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive
Proxy Statement, dated July 10, 1996, for the 1996 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders on August 13, 1996, on pages 13 and 14 under the caption "Ownership
of Common Shares."

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Information regarding the compensation of directors and executive
officers is incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement, dated July 10, 1996, for the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
August 13, 1996, under the following captions and page numbers: "Additional
Information Concerning the Board of Directors of the Company" on pages 4 and 5,
and beginning with "Report of the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors" on page 5 and continuing through "Pension Plan" on page 11.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners
of the named executive officers, and of directors and executive officers as a
group, is hereby incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement, dated July 10, 1996, for the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
August 13, 1996, on pages 13 and 14 under the caption "Ownership of Common
Shares."

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
dated July 10, 1996, for the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 13,
1996, under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Additional Information
Concerning the Board of Directors of the Company" on pages 2 through 5.







                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1,2. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

         The index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
         Statement Schedules is included on page F-1 of this Report.

      3. Exhibits




           

             All other required exhibits are either inapplicable to the Company
or require no answer.

               Copies of exhibits are not attached hereto, but the Company will
               furnish any of the foregoing exhibits to any shareholder upon
               written request. Please address inquiries to: The J. M. Smucker
               Company, Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667, Attention: Steven
               J. Ellcessor, Secretary. A fee of $1 per page will be charged to
               help defray the cost of handling, copying, and return postage.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the Fourth Quarter of 1996.

    No reports on Form 8-K were required to be filed during the last quarter
    of the period covered by this report.

(c) The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
    of this report.

(d) The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
    of this report.








                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  July 22, 1996       The J. M. Smucker Company

                           By:  /s/ Steven J. Ellcessor
                              -------------------------
                                Secretary

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.






                            THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                      ITEMS 14(a) (1) AND (2), (c) AND (d)

         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


      All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because
the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
the notes thereto.

                                       F-1









                            THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                    YEARS ENDED APRIL 30, 1996, 1995 AND 1994

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)




                                      F-2

