
10-K
SMUCKER'S 10-K



 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                    For the Fiscal Year Ended April 30, 1994
 
             ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         Commission File Number 1-5111
 
                            THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY
 

 
                              One Strawberry Lane
                           Orrville, Ohio 44667-0280
                          Principal executive offices
 
                        Telephone number: (216) 682-3000
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
Class A Common Shares, no par value                         Registered on the
Class B Common Shares, no par value                      New York Stock Exchange
 
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
     The Registrant has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and
has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  (X)
 
     As of July 5, 1994, 14,391,339 Class A Common Shares and 14,780,839 Class B
Common Shares of The J.M. Smucker Company were issued and outstanding. The
aggregate market value of the voting Common Shares (Class A) held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant at July 5, 1994, was $270,068,939.
 
     Certain sections of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, dated July
11, 1994, for the August 16, 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and of the 1994
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II,
III and IV of this Report.


                                     PART I



ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

  THE COMPANY.  The J. M. Smucker Company was begun in 1897 and was
incorporated in Ohio in 1921.  The Company, generally referred to as
"SMUCKER'S" (a registered trademark), operates in one industry, the
manufacturing and marketing of food products on a worldwide basis.  Unless
otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Company" as used in this report
means The J. M. Smucker Company and its subsidiaries.

  PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS.  The principal products of the Company are jams, jellies,
preserves, fruit spreads, frozen pies, dessert toppings, syrups, peanut butter,
industrial fruit products (such as bakery and yogurt fillings), fruit and
vegetable juices, juice beverages, pie fillings, condiments, and gift packages.

  The Company is structured around six strategic business areas:  Consumer,
Mrs. Smith's, Foodservice, International, Industrial, and Specialty Foods.
Within the domestic markets, the Company's products are primarily sold through
brokers to chain, wholesale, cooperative, and independent grocery accounts and
other consumer markets, and to foodservice distributors and chains including:
hotels, restaurants, and institutions.  Industrial products such as bakery and
fruit fillings are typically sold direct to other food manufacturers and
marketers for inclusion in their products.  The Company's acquisition of the
Mrs. Smith's Frozen Foods Co., a subsidiary of Kellogg Company in late fiscal
1994 has allowed the Company to expand its distribution into the frozen foods
section of the grocery store.

  The Company's distribution outside the United States is principally in
Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Latin America, although products are
exported to other countries.  The acquisition during fiscal 1994 of the
Culinar, Inc. jam division in Quebec significantly expanded the Company's
presence in the Canadian market.  International sales now represent
approximately 11% of total Company sales.

  SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS.  The fruit raw materials used by
the Company in the production of its food products are generally purchased from
independent growers and suppliers, although the Company grows some strawberries
for its own use.  Because of the seasonal nature and volatility of quantities
of most of the crops on which the Company depends, it is necessary to prepare
and freeze stocks of fruit, fruit juices, berries and other food products and
to maintain them in cold storage warehouses.  Sweeteners, peanuts, and other
ingredients are obtained from various other sources.

  PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS.  The Company's products are marketed under several
trademarks owned by the Company.  The principal trademarks of the Company 
include:  "SMUCKER'S", "MRS. SMITH'S", "THE R. W. KNUDSEN FAMILY", "MARY 
ELLEN", "LOST ACRES", "SIMPLY FRUIT", "DUTCH GIRL", "GOOD MORNING", "EXTRA 
FRUIT", "DOUBLE FRUIT", "J. M. SMUCKER'S", "SUPER SPREADERS", "LOW SUGAR", 
"GOOBER", "MAGIC SHELL", "SPECIAL RECIPE", "SUNDAE SYRUP", "RECHARGE", "AFTER
THE FALL", "SANTA CRUZ NATURAL", "DICKINSON'S", "SPRITZER", "FRUIT TEAZER", 
"TEAKOOLER", "HEINKE", and "FRUITAGE".  In addition, the Company licenses the 
"IXL", "SHIRRIFF", "SCHWARTAU", and "VACHON" brands.


  Other slogans or designs considered important trademarks to the Company
include:  "With a name like SMUCKER'S, it has to be good," "SMUCKER'S" banner,
the Crock Jar shape, Gingham design, and strawberry logo.

  SEASONALITY.  Historically, the Company's business has not been highly
seasonal.  However, due to the demand for frozen pies during the fall and
holiday season, the Company expects the addition of "MRS. SMITH'S" to
significantly impact its second and third quarter results.

  WORKING CAPITAL.  Working capital requirements are greatest during the late
spring and summer months due to seasonal procurement of fruits, berries, and
peanuts.  During this period, short-term borrowing may be used to augment
working capital generated by sales.

  CUSTOMERS.  The Company is not dependent either on a single customer or on a
very few for a major part of its sales.  No single domestic or foreign customer
accounts for more than 10% of consolidated sales.

  ORDERS.  Generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt and the
backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time is not material.

  GOVERNMENT BUSINESS.  The Company has no material portion of its business
which may be subject to negotiation of profits or termination of contracts at
the election of the government.

  COMPETITION.  The Company is the leading manufacturer of fruit spreads,
toppings, and frozen pies in the United States.  The Company's business is
highly competitive as all its brands compete for retail shelf space with other
advertised and branded products as well as unadvertised and private label
products.  The rapid growth of alternative store formats (i.e.  Warehouse Club
and Mass Merchandise stores) and changes in business practices, resulting from
both technological advances and new industry techniques, have added additional
variables for companies in the food industry to consider in order to remain
competitive.  The principal methods of and factors in competition are product
quality, price, advertising, and promotion.

  ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Compliance with the provision of federal, state and
local environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of materials
into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to
have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive
position of the Company.

  EMPLOYEES.  At April 30, 1994, the Company had approximately 2,600 full-time
employees, worldwide.

  SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.  Information concerning international
operations for the years 1994, 1993, and 1992 is hereby incorporated by
reference from the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, on page 20 under Note B:
"Operating Segments."


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

  The table below lists all the Company's manufacturing and fruit processing
facilities.  All of the Company's properties are maintained and updated on a
regular basis, and the Company continues to make investment for expansion and
technological improvements.





  In addition to the locations listed above, acreage is leased in California
for the growing of strawberries.  The corporate headquarters are located in
Orrville, Ohio and offices are leased in Toronto, Ontario, and Longueuil,
Quebec, Canada, and Carlton, Victoria, Australia.  All production properties
are owned except the facility in Oxnard, California, which is leased.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  The Company is not a party to any pending legal proceeding which would be
considered material.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSIONS OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  Not applicable.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

  The names, ages as of July 1, 1994, and positions of the executive officers
of the Company are listed below.  All executive officers serve at the pleasure
of the Board of Directors, with no fixed term of office.  Paul H. Smucker is
the father of Tim and Richard K. Smucker.  All of the officers have held
various positions with the Company for more than five years.








                                    PART II



ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

  The information pertaining to the market for the Company's Common Stock and
other related shareholder information is hereby incorporated by reference from
the Company's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Stock Price
Data" on page 9.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  Five year summaries of selected financial data for the Company and
discussions of accounting changes which materially affect the comparability of
the selected financial data are hereby incorporated by reference from the
Company's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders under the following captions and
page numbers:  "Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page 9; Note
E:  "Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" on page 22; and Note G:
"Income Taxes" on pages 24 and 25.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

  Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial
condition, including a discussion of liquidity and capital resources, is hereby
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders, on pages 10 through 12.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  Consolidated financial statements of the Company at April 30, 1994, 1993, and
1992 and for each of the three years in the period ended April 30, 1994, with
the report of independent auditors and selected unaudited quarterly financial
data, are hereby incorporated by reference from the Company's 1994 Annual
Report to Shareholders on page 9 and pages 13 through 26, respectively.


ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.



                                    PART III



ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Information regarding directors and nominees for directorship is incorporated
herein by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement, dated July
11, 1994, for the 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 16, 1994, on
pages 2 through 4, under the caption "Election of Directors."  For information
concerning the Company's executive officers, see "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" set forth in Part I hereof.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  Information regarding the compensation of directors and executive officers is
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement, dated
July 11, 1994, for the 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 16, 1994
under the following captions and page numbers: "Directors' Meetings and
Compensation" on page 4, and "Executive Compensation" on pages 4 through 10.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners of all
directors and nominees, of the named executive officers, and of directors and
executive officers as a group, is hereby incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement, dated July 11, 1994, for the 1994 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders on August 16, 1994 on pages 12 and 13 under the caption
"Ownership of Common Shares."


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
hereby incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
dated July 11, 1994, for the 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on August 16,
1994 under the following captions and page numbers: "Election of Directors" on
pages 2 through 4.


                                    PART IV




ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1, 2.   Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

            The index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
            Statement Schedules is included on page F-1 of this Report.

       3.   Exhibits





        Copies of exhibits are not attached hereto, but the Company will 
        furnish any of the foregoing exhibits to any shareholder upon written 
        request.  Please address inquiries to:  The J. M. Smucker Company, 
        Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667, Attention:  Steven J. Ellcessor, 
        Secretary.  A fee of $1 per page will be charged to help defray the 
        cost of handling, copying, and return postage.



(b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the Fourth Quarter of 1994.

    On April 15, 1994, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission reporting that the Company was acquiring
    the "MRS. SMITH'S" frozen pie business from Mrs. Smith's Frozen Foods Co.,
    a wholly owned subsidiary of Kellogg Company.

    On June 13, 1994, the Company amended its April 15, 1994 Form 8-K filing to
    include both audited financial statements and proforma information as
    required under item 7(a) and 7(b) of Form 8-K.

(c) The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
    of this report.

(d) The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
    of this report.


                                   SIGNATURES


  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Form 10-K Report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  July 15, 1994
                                        The J. M. Smucker Company


                                        By ___________________________________
                                           Steven J. Ellcessor, Secretary


  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.










                                      F-1






                                      F-2






                                      F-3







                                      F-4






                                      F-5







                                     F-6

