
10-K405
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                       ----------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K

    (Mark One) [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
        
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

                                       OR

               [_]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                     FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ________TO__________

                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4534

                        AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                       23-1274455
(State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

    7201 Hamilton Boulevard
    Allentown, Pennsylvania                              18195-1501
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (610)481-4911

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                      NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
                                                      ------------------------
        TITLE OF EACH CLASS                               WHICH REGISTERED
        -------------------                               ----------------
Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share                 New York and Pacific

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                         New York and Pacific

   8-3/4% Debentures Due 2021                                 New York

                             -----------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X]   NO [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendments to
this Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant on November 1, 1996 was $7.6 billion. For purposes of the
foregoing calculation (i) all directors and/or executive officers have been
deemed to be affiliates, but the Registrant disclaims that any such director
and/or executive officer is an affiliate and (ii) Registrant's Flexible Employee
Benefit Trust, described under Item 12 of this Report, is deemed a
non-affiliate.

     The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of November 29, 1996
was 120,403,539.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1996. With the exception of those portions which are incorporated by reference
into Parts I, II and IV of this Form 10-K, the Annual Report is not deemed to be
filed.

      Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held January 23,
1997 . . . Part III.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                



                                       ii




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS.

      Through internal development and by acquisitions, Air Products and
Chemicals, Inc. has established an internationally recognized industrial gas and
related industrial process equipment business, and developed strong positions as
a producer of certain chemicals.

      The industrial gases business segment recovers and distributes industrial
gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, argon and hydrogen and a variety of medical and
specialty gases. The chemicals business segment produces and markets polymer
chemicals, performance chemicals and chemical intermediates. The equipment and
services business segment supplies cryogenic and other process equipment and
related engineering services and includes the Company's power generation
business and flue gas treatment business.

      Financial information concerning the Company's business segments appears
in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8
herein, which information is incorporated herein by reference, as are all other
specific references herein to information appearing in such 1996 Financial
Review Section of the Annual Report.

      As used in this Report, the term "Air Products" or "Company" includes
subsidiaries and predecessors of the registrant or its subsidiaries, unless the
context indicates otherwise.

                                INDUSTRIAL GASES

      The principal industrial gases sold by the Company are oxygen, nitrogen,
argon (primarily recovered by the cryogenic distillation of air), hydrogen,
carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide (purchased, purified or recovered through the
processing of natural gas or the by-product streams from process plants),
synthesis gas (combined streams of hydrogen and carbon monoxide) and helium
(purchased or refined from crude helium). Medical and specialty gases are
manufactured or blended by the Company or purchased for resale.

      The Company's industrial gas business involves two principal modes of
supply:

      "Tonnage" or "on-site" supply -- For large volume or "tonnage" users of
industrial gases, a plant is built adjacent to or near the customer's facility
- -- hence the term "on-site". Alternatively, the gases are delivered through a
pipeline from nearby locations. Supply is generally made under contracts having
terms in excess of three years. In at least six areas -- the Houston (Texas)
Ship Channel including the Port Arthur, Texas, area; "Silicon Valley",
California; Phoenix, Arizona; Central Louisiana; Rotterdam, the Netherlands; and
Corpus Christi, Texas -- Air Products' hydrogen, oxygen, carbon monoxide or
nitrogen gas pipelines serve multiple customers from one or more centrally
located plants. Affiliates have pipelines in Korea, Thailand and Malaysia.

      Merchant supply -- Smaller volumes of industrial gas products are
delivered to thousands of customers in liquid or gaseous form by tanker trucks
or tube trailers. These merchant customers use equipment designed and installed
by Air Products to store the product near the point of use, normally in liquid
state, and vaporize the product into gaseous state for their use as needed.
Increasingly, some customers are being supplied by small on-site generators
using noncryogenic technology based on adsorption and membrane technology.
Merchant customers' contract terms normally are from three to five years.
Merchant gases and various specialty gases are also delivered in cylinders,
dewars and lecture bottle sizes.

      Oxygen, nitrogen, argon and hydrogen sold to merchant customers are
usually recovered at large "stand-alone" facilities located near industrial
areas or high-tech centers, or at small noncryogenic generators, or are taken
from tonnage plants used primarily to supply tonnage users. Tonnage plants are
frequently designed to have more capacity than is required by their principal
customer to recover additional product that is liquefied for sale to a merchant
market. Air Products also designs and builds systems for recovering oxygen,
hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide and low dew point gases using adsorption
technology.





      Tonnage and merchant sales of atmospheric gases -- oxygen, nitrogen and
argon -- constituted approximately 28% of Air Products' consolidated sales in
fiscal 1996 and were approximately 29% and 31% in fiscal years 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Tonnage and merchant sales of industrial gases -- principally
oxygen, nitrogen and hydrogen -- to the chemical process industry, the
electronics industry and the basic steel industry, the largest consuming
industries, were approximately 14%, 11% and 6%, respectively, of Air Products'
consolidated sales in fiscal 1996.

      Other important consumers of Air Products' industrial and specialty gases
are the oil industry (which uses inert nitrogen for oil well stimulation and
field pressurization and hydrogen and oxygen for refining) and the food industry
(which uses liquid nitrogen for food freezing). Air Products believes that it is
the largest liquefier of hydrogen, which it supplies to many customers including
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for its space shuttle program.

      Helium is sold for use in magnetic resonance imaging equipment, controlled
atmospheres processes and welding. Medical gases are sold in the merchant market
to hospitals and clinics, primarily for inhalation therapy.

      Specialty gases include fluorine products, rare gases such as xenon,
krypton and neon and more common gases of high-purity or gases which are
precisely blended as mixtures. These gases are used in numerous industries and
in electronic and laboratory applications.

      Sales of industrial gases to merchant customers and/or sales of specialty
products to the electronics industry are made principally through field sales
forces from 105 offices in 37 states in the United States and Puerto Rico, and
from 133 offices in 20 foreign countries. In addition, industrial gas companies
in which the Company has investments operate in 28 foreign countries. See
"Foreign Operations" on page 5 of this report.

      Electricity and hydrocarbons, including natural gas as a feedstock for
producing certain gases, are important to Air Products' industrial gas business.
See "Raw Materials and Energy". The Company's large truck fleet, which delivers
products to merchant customers, requires a readily available supply of gasoline
or diesel fuel. Also, environmental and health laws and regulations will
continue to affect the Company's industrial gas businesses. See "Environmental
Controls".

                                    CHEMICALS

         The Company's chemicals businesses consist of polymer chemicals,
performance chemicals, and chemical intermediates where the Company is able to
differentiate itself by the performance of its products in the customer's
application, the technical service which the Company provides, and the scale of
production and the production technology employed by the Company.

POLYMER CHEMICALS

         Air Products' polymer chemicals are water-based and water-soluble
products derived primarily from vinyl acetate monomer. The principal products of
these businesses are polymer emulsions, pressure sensitive adhesives, and
polyvinyl alcohol. Total sales from these businesses constituted approximately
13% of Air Products' consolidated sales in fiscal year 1996, 14% in fiscal year
1995 and 12% in fiscal year 1994, respectively.

         Polymer Emulsions - The Company's major emulsion products are vinyl
acetate homopolymer emulsions and Airflex(R) vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer
emulsions. The Company also produces emulsions which incorporate vinyl chloride
and various acrylates in the polymer. These products are used in adhesives,
nonwoven fabric binders, paper coatings, paints, inks and carpet backing binder
formulations.

         Pressure Sensitive Adhesives - These products are water-based acrylic
emulsions which are used for both permanent and removable pressure sensitive
adhesives primarily for labels and tapes.

         Polyvinyl Alcohol - These polymer products are water-soluble synthetic
resins which are used in textile warp sizes, surface sizes for paper, adhesives,
safety glass laminates and as emulsifying agents in polymerization. As a
coproduct of polyvinyl alcohol, acetic acid is a merchant product sold to a
variety of markets including textiles, pharmaceuticals and electronics.






PERFORMANCE CHEMICALS

         Air Products' performance chemicals are differentiated from the
competition based on their performance when used in the customer's products and
the technical service which the Company provides. The principal products of
these businesses are specialty additives, polyurethane additives and epoxy
additives. Total sales from these businesses constituted approximately 10% of
Air Products' consolidated sales in fiscal year 1996 and 9% in fiscal years 1995
and 1994.

         Specialty Additives - These products are primarily acetylenic alcohols
and amines which are used as performance additives in coatings, lubricants,
electro-deposition processes, agricultural formulations and corrosion
inhibitors.

         Polyurethane Additives - These products include catalysts, surfactants
and release agents which are used as performance control additives and
processing aids in the production of both flexible and rigid polyurethane foam
around the world. The principal end markets for polyurethane foams include
furniture cushioning, insulation, carpet underlay, bedding and automobile
seating.

         Epoxy Additives - These products include polyamides, aromatic amines,
cycloaliphatic amines, reactive diluents and specialty epoxy resins which are
used as performance additives in epoxy formulations by epoxy manufacturers
worldwide. The end markets for epoxies are coatings, flooring, adhesives,
reinforced composites and electrical laminates.

CHEMICAL INTERMEDIATES

         The chemical intermediates businesses use the Company's proprietary
technology and scale of production to differentiate themselves from the
competition. The principal intermediates sold by the Company include amines and
polyurethane intermediates. The Company also produces certain industrial
chemicals (ammonia, methanol and nitric acid) as raw materials for its
differentiated products. Total third-party sales from the chemical intermediates
businesses constituted 11% of Air Products' consolidated sales in fiscal year
1996, 12% in fiscal year 1995 and 13% in fiscal year 1994.

         Amines - The Company produces a broad range of amines using ammonia and
methanol, which are both manufactured by Air Products, and other alcohol
feedstocks purchased from various suppliers. Other, more specialized amines are
produced by the hydrogenation of purchased intermediates. Substantial quantities
of these products are sold under long-term contracts to a small number of
customers. These products are used by the Company's customers as raw materials
in the manufacture of herbicides, pesticides, water treatment chemicals, animal
nutrients, polyurethane coatings, artificial sweeteners, rubber chemicals and
pharmaceuticals. Ammonia is a feedstock for its alkylamines and the excess over
this requirement is marketed as ammonium nitrate prills and solutions, which are
primarily used by customers as fertilizers or in other agricultural
applications. Methanol is principally used by Air Products as a feedstock in
methylamine production and the excess over this requirement is marketed to the
methanol market.

         Polyurethane Intermediates - The Company produces dinitrotoluene
("DNT") and toluene diamine ("TDA") for use as intermediates by the Company's
customers in the manufacture of a major precursor of flexible polyurethane foam.
The principal end markets for flexible polyurethane foams include furniture
cushioning, carpet underlay, bedding and seating in automobiles. Virtually all
of the Company's production of DNT and TDA is sold under long-term contracts to
a small number of customers.

                                      * * *

         Chemical sales are supported from various locations in the United
States, England, Germany, Hong Kong, Brazil, Mexico, the Netherlands, Japan,
China, Singapore and South Africa and through sales representatives or
distributors in most industrialized countries. Dry products are delivered in
railcars, trucks, drums, bags and cartons. Liquid products are delivered by
barge, rail tank cars, tank-trailers, drums and pails, and, at one location, by
pipeline.

         The chemicals business depends on adequate energy sources, including
natural gas as a feedstock for the production of certain products (see "Raw
Materials and Energy"), and will continue to be affected by various
environmental and health laws and regulations (see "Environmental Controls").








                             EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES

      The equipment business of Air Products designs, manufactures and supplies
cryogenic and other process equipment, and includes the Company's power
generation business, and its flue gas treatment business. Prior to October 1,
1996, the Company's power generation business, Pure Air(TM) flue gas treatment
business, and the landfill gas business were reported under the environmental
and energy business segment. The Company divested its landfill gas business in
early fiscal 1997.

EQUIPMENT

      Specifically, equipment is manufactured for cryogenic air separation, gas
processing, natural gas liquefaction, hydrogen purification, and nitrogen
rejection. Air Products also designs and builds systems for recovering hydrogen,
nitrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and low dew point gases using membrane
technology. Additionally, a broad range of plant design, engineering, 
procurement, and construction management services is provided for the above 
areas. Equipment is manufactured for use by the industrial gases segment and 
for sale in industrial markets which include the Company's international 
industrial gas affiliates.

      The backlog of orders (including letters of intent) believed to be firm
from other companies and equity affiliates for equipment was approximately $306
million on September 30, 1996, approximately 26% of which relates to natural gas
liquefaction, as compared with a total backlog of approximately $198 million on
September 30, 1995. It is expected that approximately $213 million of the
backlog on September 30, 1996, will be completed during fiscal 1997. Subsequent
to September 30, 1996, backlog related to natural gas liquefaction has increased
by approximately $109 million, of which $13 million is expected to be completed
during fiscal 1997.

POWER GENERATION

      Air Products constructed, operates and has a 50% interest in a 49-megawatt
fluidized-bed coal-fired power generation facility in Stockton, California; an
85-megawatt coal waste burning power generation facility in western
Pennsylvania; and a 120-megawatt gas-fired combined cycle power generation
facility in Orlando, Florida. A 112-megawatt gas-fueled power generation
facility, in which the Company has a 48.9% interest, is being constructed in
Thailand that will supply electricity to a state-owned electricity generating
authority and steam and electricity to an Air Products industrial gases
affiliate.

PURE AIR

      Pure Air markets, develops, designs and builds flue gas treatment systems.
Air Products operates and owns a 50% interest in a facility utilizing Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries, Ltd. flue gas desulfurization (FGD) technology systems for
removing sulfur dioxide from the flue gas of a coal-fired power generation plant
in Indiana. Pure Air is working with a Florida utility company to develop a
facility utilizing this FGD technology and other air pollution control
technologies for treating the flue gas of a power generation plant to be powered
by Orimulsion(R) fuel.

      Additional information with respect to the Company's power generation
business is included in Notes 9 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included under Item 8 herein.

                                     GENERAL

AMERICAN REF-FUEL

      The Company's partnerships with Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc., one of
the world's largest waste services firms, principally design, construct, own and
operate plants to combust solid waste, generate steam and sell the steam or
convert the steam to electricity. American Ref-Fuel partnerships, owned equally
by subsidiaries of Air Products and Browning-Ferris, own and operate
waste-to-energy facilities in Hempstead (Long Island), New York; near Niagara
Falls, New York; Essex County, New Jersey; and Southeastern Massachusetts each
of which combusts approximately 800,000 to 1,000,000 tons per year of solid
waste and generates electricity. A smaller waste-to-energy facility which
combusts approximately 250,000 tons per year of solid waste is located in
Preston, Connecticut. The Company announced, during fiscal 1996, its intent to
divest its interest in American Ref-Fuel.






      Additional information with respect to the Company's interest in American
Ref-Fuel is included in Notes 9 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included under Item 8 herein.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS

      Air Products through subsidiaries and affiliates conducts business in
numerous countries outside the United States. The structure of the Air Products
industrial gas business in Europe mirrors the Company's United States operation.
Air Products' international business is subject to risks customarily encountered
in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
and controls, import and export controls, and other economic, political and
regulatory policies of local governments.

         Wholly owned subsidiaries operate in Australia, Brazil, Canada and
Mexico and in 12 countries in Europe and 6 countries in Asia. The Company also
has less than controlling interests in industrial gas companies in Mexico and in
5 countries in Europe and 7 countries in Asia. Air Products also has a 70% owned
subsidiary engaged in the specialty gas and helium business as well as a 62.5%
owned subsidiary engaged in the gas membrane business in China, a 58% owned
subsidiary engaged principally in cryogenic equipment manufacturing in the Czech
Republic, a 51% owned subsidiary engaged in the manufacture and sale of polymer
emulsions in Mexico and 50% owned companies in France and South Africa
(industrial gases). The Company and a French industrial gas company each have a
25% interest in an Algerian company that owns and operates a helium 
purification and liquefaction plant which provides helium to Air Products and 
the French industrial gas company.

      As of November 1, 1996 the Company owned 96.7% of the outstanding shares
of the Sociedad Espanola de Carburos Metalicos, S.A., a major industrial gas
company in Spain. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included
under Item 8 herein.

      Financial information about Air Products' foreign operations and
investments is included in Notes 9, 11 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Item 8 herein. Information about foreign currency
translation is included in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included under Item 8 herein, under "Foreign Currency" and information on
Company exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein, under "Foreign
Exchange Contracts". Export sales from operations in the United States to
unconsolidated customers amounted to $497 million, $436 million and $376 million
in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Less than 5% of the total export sales are
to affiliated customers.

TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT

      Air Products conducts research and development principally in its
laboratories located in Trexlertown, Pennsylvania, as well as in Manchester and
Basingstoke, England; Utrecht, Netherlands and Norderstedt, near Hamburg,
Germany. The Company also works closely on research and development programs
with a number of major universities and conducts a sizable amount of research
work funded by others, principally the United States Government.

      The Company's market-oriented approach to technology development
encompasses research and development, and engineering as well as commercial
development.

      The amount expended by the Company on research and development during
fiscal 1996 was $114 million compared with $103 million and $97 million during
fiscal 1995 and 1994, respectively. In addition, the Company estimates
approximately $9 million was spent in each of fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994
on customer-sponsored research activities relating to the development or
improvement of products, services or techniques.

      In the industrial gases and equipment and services segments, technology
development is directed primarily to developing new and improved processes and
equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and cryogenic
fluids, developing new products, and developing new and improved applications
for industrial gases. It is through such applications and improvements that the
Company has become a major supplier to the electronics, polymer, petroleum,
rubber, plastics, food processing and paper industries. Through fundamental
research into sieve and polymer materials, advanced process engineering and
integrated manufacturing methods, the Company discovers, develops and improves
the economics of noncryogenic gas separation technologies. Additionally,
technology development for the equipment and 





services businesses is directed primarily to reducing the capital and operating
costs of its facilities and to commercializing new technologies in power
production, air pollution control and nonhazardous waste disposal systems.

      In the chemicals segment, technology development is primarily concerned
with new products and applications to strengthen and extend our present
positions in polymer and performance chemicals. In addition, a major continuing
effort supports the development of new and improved manufacturing technology for
chemical intermediates and various types of polymers.

      A corporate research group supports the research efforts of the Company's
various businesses. This group includes the Company's Corporate Science and
Technology Center, which conducts exploratory research in areas important to the
long-term growth of the Company's core businesses, e.g., gas and fluid
separations, polymer science, organic synthesis, and fluorine chemicals.

      As of November 1, 1996, Air Products owned 1,051 United States patents and
1,978 foreign patents. The Company is also licensed to practice under patents
owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, Air
Products does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent
upon any particular patent or patent license, or group of patents or licenses.

RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY

      The Company manufactures anhydrous ammonia, hydrogen, carbon monoxide,
carbon dioxide and methanol principally from natural gas. Such products
accounted for approximately 7% of the Company's consolidated sales in fiscal
1996. The Company's principal raw material purchases are chemical intermediates
produced by others from basic petrochemical feedstocks such as olefins and
aromatic hydrocarbons. These feedstocks are generally derived from various
crude oil fractions or from liquids extracted from natural gas. The Company
purchases its chemical intermediates from many sources and generally is not
dependent on one supplier. However, with respect to vinyl acetate monomer, which
supports the polymer business, the Company is heavily dependent on a single
supplier, under a long-term contract, which produces vinyl acetate monomer from
several facilities. The Company characterizes the availability of these chemical
intermediates as generally being readily available. The Company uses such raw
materials in the production of emulsions, polyvinyl alcohol, amines,
polyurethane intermediates, specialty additives, polyurethane additives and
epoxy additives. Such products accounted for approximately 35% of the Company's
consolidated sales in fiscal 1996. Natural gas is an energy source at a number
of the Company's facilities.

      The Company's industrial gas facilities use substantial amounts of
electrical power. Any shortage of electrical power or interruption of its supply
or increase in its price which cannot be passed through to customers for
competitive reasons will adversely affect the merchant industrial gas business
of the Company.

      In addition, the Company purchases finished and semifinished materials and
chemical intermediates from many suppliers. During fiscal 1996, no significant
difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw
materials.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS

      The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in
the United States and foreign countries where it has operations. Compliance with
these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs.
Additionally, from time to time the Company is involved in proceedings under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (the
federal Superfund law), similar state laws, and the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA) relating to the designation of certain sites for
investigation and possible cleanup. Additional information with respect to these
proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company's
accounting policies on environmental expenditures are discussed in Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein.

      The amounts charged to earnings on an after-tax basis related to
environmental protection totaled $27 million both in 1996 and 1995, and $28
million for 1994. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance
with environmental laws, as well as remedial activities, and costs incurred to
meet internal Company standards. Such costs are estimated to be approximately
$28 million in 1997 and $30 million in 1998.






      Although precise amounts are difficult to define, the Company estimates
that in fiscal 1996 it spent approximately $11 million on capital projects to
control pollution (including expenditures associated with new plants) versus $13
million in 1995. Capital expenditures to control pollution in future years are
estimated at $15 million in 1997 and $17 million in 1998. In addition, the
Company's joint ventures in power generation and American Ref-Fuel include in
the capital costs of their projects the costs of equipment and systems to
control pollution. For example, it is estimated that in fiscal 1996 the ventures
of the Company in Ref-Fuel and power generation projects spent approximately $73
million on equipment and systems within their existing facilities to control
pollution. Additional information with respect to these ventures is included on
page 4 of this report.

      The exact amount to be expended by the Company and its Ref-Fuel and power
generation business joint ventures on equipment to control pollution will depend
upon the timing of the capital projects and timing and content of regulations
promulgated by environmental regulatory bodies during the life of any capital
investment. Efforts are made to pass these costs through to customers. For
example, with respect to most Ref-Fuel ventures, to the extent subsequent law
changes require additional environmental equipment to control pollution, the
costs generally are passed through to the municipality under long-term waste
disposal contracts. To the extent long-term contracts have been entered into for
supply of product such as for the industrial gas on-site business and for
certain chemical products, the cost of any environmental compliance generally is
contractually passed through to the customer.

      It is the Company's policy to accrue environmental investigatory and
noncapital remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a
liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
The potential exposure for such costs is estimated to range from $18 million to
a reasonably possible upper exposure of $45 million. The balance sheet at 30
September 1996 includes an accrual of $32 million and a receivable balance of $1
million relating to third party recoveries. At 30 September 1995, the balance
sheet accrual was $35 million, and the receivable balance was $1 million.

      In addition to the environmental exposures discussed in the preceding
paragraph, there will be spending at a Company-owned manufacturing site where
the Company is undertaking RCRA corrective action remediation. The Company
estimates costs to implement the anticipated remedial program will range from
$26-$33 million. Spending was minimal in fiscal 1996 and is estimated at $5
million for both fiscal 1997 and 1998. Operating and maintenance expenses
associated with continuing the remedial program are estimated to be $1 million
per year beginning in fiscal 1997 and continuing for an estimated period of up
to 30 years. A former owner and operator at the site has agreed to reimburse the
Company approximately 20% of the costs incurred in the remediation. The cost
estimates have not been reduced by the value of such reimbursement, which the
Company believes is probable of realization.

      Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates,
given inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures and factors
beyond the Company's control such as: lack of knowledge or scarcity of reliable
data pertaining to identified sites; method and extent of remediation ultimately
required; years of remedial activity required; number of parties involved; final
determination of the Company's liability in proportion to that of other parties;
identification of new sites; evolving environmental laws and regulations and
their application; and advances in technology.

      The Company's domestic competitors face similar requirements, which are
not shared by most foreign competitors.

COMPETITION

      The Company's businesses face strong competition from others, some of
which are larger and have greater resources than Air Products.

      Air Products' industrial gas business competes in the United States with
three major sellers and with several regional sellers. Competition in industrial
gas markets is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and furnishing
or developing applications for use of such gases by customers. A similar
competitive situation exists in European industrial gas markets in which the
Company competes against one or more larger entrenched competitors in most
countries.






      The number of the Company's principal competitors in the chemicals
business varies from product to product, and it is not practical to identify
such competitors because of the broad range of the Company's chemical products
and the markets served, although the Company believes it has a leading or strong
market position in most of its chemical products. For amines, the competition is
principally from other large chemical companies that also have the ability to
provide competitive pricing, reliability of supply, technical service assistance
and quality products and services. The possibility of back integration by large
customers is the major competitive factor for the sale of polyurethane
intermediates. In its other chemical products, the Company competes with a large
number of chemical companies, some of which are larger, possess greater
financial resources, and are more vertically integrated than the Company.
Competition in these products is principally on the basis of price, quality,
product performance, reliability of product supply and technical service
assistance.

      The Company's equipment and services businesses including power generation
compete in all aspects with a great number of firms, some of which have greater
financial resources than Air Products. Another important factor in certain
export sales is financing provided by governmental entities in the United States
and the United Kingdom as compared with financing offered by their counterparts
in other countries.

      Competition is based primarily on technological performance, service,
technical know-how, price and performance guarantees. Air Products believes that
its comprehensive project development capability, operating experience,
engineering and financing capabilities and construction management experience
will enable it to compete effectively.

INSURANCE

      The Company's policy is to obtain public liability and property insurance
coverage that is currently available at what management determines to be a fair
and reasonable price. The Company, for itself and its power generation and flue
gas treatment joint venture affiliates for which it assumes turnkey construction
or operating responsibility, maintains public liability and property insurance
coverage at amounts which management believes are sufficient, after retention,
to meet the Company's anticipated needs in light of historical experience to
cover future litigation and claims. There is no assurance, however, that the
Company will not incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the coverage of,
its insurance.

EMPLOYEES

     On September 30, 1996, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries)
had approximately 15,200 full-time employees of whom approximately 4,600 were
located outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining
agreements with unions at numerous locations, which expire on various dates over
the next three years, including an agreement for a facility which manufactures
helium and hydrogen containers in Pennsylvania that expires in fiscal 1997.
The Company considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory. The
Company does not believe that any expiring collective bargaining agreements will
result in a material adverse impact on the Company.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

      The Company's executive officers, their respective positions and their
respective ages on December 15, 1996 follow. Except where indicated, each of the
executive officers listed below has been employed by the Company in the position
indicated during the past five fiscal years. Information with respect to offices
held is stated in fiscal years.







                                                         
- ---------------------
(A)   Member, Board of Directors.
(B)   Member, Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.
(C)   Member, Finance Committee of the Board of Directors.
(D)   Member, Management Committee.
(E)   Member, Corporate Executive Committee.

ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES.

      The principal executive offices of Air Products are located at its
headquarters in Trexlertown, near Allentown, Pennsylvania. Additional
administrative offices are located in owned facilities in Hersham, near London,
England, and Brampton, near Toronto, Canada, and in leased facilities in the
Allentown area, Pennsylvania; Tokyo, Japan; Hong Kong; Singapore and Sao Paulo,
Brazil. The management considers the Company's facilities, described in more
detail below, to be adequate to support the business efficiently. The following
information with respect to properties is as of September 30, 1996.

INDUSTRIAL GASES

      The industrial gases segment has approximately 163 plant facilities in 38
states, the majority of which recover nitrogen, oxygen and argon. The Company
has six facilities which produce specialty gases and 26 facilities which recover
hydrogen throughout the United States. Helium is recovered at two plants in
Kansas and Texas, and acetylene is manufactured at six plants in six states in
the United States. There are 112 sales offices and/or cylinder distribution
centers located in 39 states.

      The land on which the above plants are located is owned by Air Products at
approximately one-fourth of the locations, and leased by Air Products at the
remaining locations. However, in all cases, the plant itself is owned and
operated by Air Products. Air Products owns approximately half of its sales
offices and cylinder distribution centers, including related real estate, and
leases the other half.

      Air Products' European plant facilities total 42, and include six plants
which recover hydrogen, three plants which manufacture dissolved acetylene, and
one which recovers carbon monoxide. The majority of European plants recover
nitrogen, oxygen and argon. In addition, there are three specialty gas centers.
There is a combined total of 87 sales offices and/or cylinder distribution
centers in Europe, and several 






additional facilities located in Brazil, Canada, Japan, the People's Republic of
China, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Taiwan and the Middle East. Representative
offices are located in Beijing and Shanghai in the People's Republic of China.

CHEMICALS

      The chemicals segment manufactures amines, nitric acid, methanol,
anhydrous ammonia and ammonia products at its Pace, Florida, facility;
alkylamines at its St. Gabriel, Louisiana, facility; polyvinyl acetate emulsions
at its South Brunswick, New Jersey, facility; styrene emulsions, styrene
acrylics, polyvinyl acetate acrylics, and polyvinyl acetate emulsions at its San
Juan del Rio facility in Mexico; nitric acid, dinitrotoluene, toluene diamine,
polyvinyl alcohol and acetic acid at its Pasadena, Texas, facility; and
polyvinyl acetate emulsions, polyvinyl alcohol, acetic acid and acetylenic
chemicals at its Calvert City, Kentucky, facility; specialty amines at its
Wichita, Kansas, facility; polyurethane additives release agents at its Hamburg,
Germany, facility; and epoxy additives at its facilities in Manchester, England;
Los Angeles, California and Cumberland, Rhode Island. The chemicals segment
manufactures polyurethane additives at its Paulsboro, New Jersey, facility which
is leased in part and owned in part. The chemicals segment also manufactures
polyvinyl acetate emulsions at five smaller locations.

      The chemicals segment has 16 plant facilities, six sales offices and one
laboratory in the United States and operates two plants, seven
sales/representative offices and two laboratories in Europe, laboratories in
Brazil, Hong Kong, and Korea, one plant in Mexico, one plant in Korea, and sales
offices in Australia, Brazil, Mexico, Japan, Korea, Singapore and South Africa
and sales/representative offices in Hong Kong, and representative offices in
Beijing and Shanghai in the People's Republic of China. Substantially all of the
chemicals segment's plants and real estate thereunder are owned. Approximately
75% of the offices are leased by the Company and 25% are owned.

EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES

      The principal facilities utilized by the equipment and services segment
include five plants and three offices in the United States, three plants and
three offices in Europe and one office in Japan. Air Products owns approximately
50% of the facilities and real estate in this segment and leases the remaining
50%.

ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

      In the normal course of business Air Products and its subsidiaries are
involved in legal proceedings including proceedings involving governmental
authorities. The Company does not expect that any sums it may have to pay in
connection with these matters would have a materially adverse effect on its
consolidated financial position nor is there any material additional exposure
expected in any one year in excess of the amounts the Company currently has
accrued. Included in these claims and actions are the following:

     (i) proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
         Compensation, and Liability Act (the federal Superfund law), the
         Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and similar state
         environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites for
         investigation or remediation. There are presently approximately 55
         sites on which a final settlement has not been reached where the
         Company, along with others, has been designated a Potentially
         Responsible Party by the Environmental Protection Agency or is
         otherwise engaged in investigation or remediation. While monetary 
         sanctions have not yet been determined, they may exceed $100,000. On
         October 16, 1996, the Company and the Kentucky Department for
         Environmental Protection entered into an Agreed Order to resolve
         miscellaneous alleged violations of Kentucky's air pollution control
         regulations including new source review and other permitting,
         record-keeping and leak detection requirements alleged in a July 14,
         1995 Notice of Violation which had been previously disclosed in the
         Company's 1995 Form 10-K. The Company agreed to pay a civil penalty of
         $84,000 and perform a supplemental environmental project. Additional
         information on the Company's environmental exposure is included under  
         Environmental Controls on pages 6 and 7 of this report.








    (ii) On May 2, 1995, and April 1, 1996, two related actions were
         initiated in the Federal District Court in the Western District of
         Pennsylvania by the Company and its project companies, Washington Power
         (I), Inc. and Washington Power Company, L.P., against Allegheny Power
         Systems, Inc. and its affiliates, Allegheny Power Service Corporation
         and West Penn Power Company [Washington Power (I), Inc., et al. vs.
         Allegheny Power Systems, Inc., et al., C.A. No. 95-0658 and Air
         Products and Chemicals, Inc., et al. vs. Allegheny Power Systems, Inc.,
         et al., C.A. No. 96-0598.] The consolidated lawsuits seek recovery of
         lost profits, including treble and punitive damages arising out of
         defendants' repudiation of a long-term contract to buy electricity from
         Washington Power. Defendants' actions are alleged to have been improper
         exercises of monopoly power in violation of the Sherman Act justifying
         an award of treble damages, together with restraint of trade,
         intentional interference with contract, and wrongful use of civil
         proceedings justifying an award of punitive damages. The parties are
         engaged in ongoing discovery, with no firm trial date having been set
         by the Court.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

      Not applicable.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

      Market and dividend information for the Company's Common Stock appears
under "Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on pages 32 and 33 of the
1996 Financial Review Section of the Annual Report to Shareholders which is
incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the Company has authority to
issue 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock in series. The Board of Directors is
authorized to designate the series and to fix the relative voting, dividend,
conversion, liquidation, redemption and other rights, preferences and
limitations as between series. When preferred stock is issued, holders of Common
Stock are subject to the dividend and liquidation preferences and other prior
rights of the preferred stock. There currently is no preferred stock
outstanding.

      As of November 29, 1996, there were 11,302 record holders of the Company's
Common Stock.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

      The tabular information appearing under "Eleven-Year Summary of Selected
Financial Data" on pages 32 and 33 of the 1996 Financial Review Section of the
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS.

      The textual information appearing under "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" on pages 2 through 8 of the 1996 Financial Review Section of the
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

      The consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto
together with the report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated 1 November 1996,
appearing on pages 9 through 31 of the 1996 Financial Review Section of the
Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

      Not applicable.







                                    PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

      The biographical information relating to the Company's directors contained
on pages 2 through 6 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Company's 1997
Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. Biographical
information relating to the Company's executive officers is set forth in Item 1
of Part I of this Report.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

      The information under "Other Relationships and Transactions",
"Remuneration of Directors", "Report of the Management Development and
Compensation Committee", "Compensation and Option Tables", "Stock Performance
Information", "Pension Plans", and "Certain Agreements with Executive Officers"
appearing on pages 7 through 18 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Company's
1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

      The information required for this Item is set forth in the section headed
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" contained on
pages 19 through 22 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Company's 1997 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

      The information under "Other Relationships and Transactions" appearing on
page 7 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Company's 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

      (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

            1. The 1996 Financial Review Section of the Company's 1996 Annual
      Report to Shareholders. Information contained therein is not deemed filed
      except as it is incorporated by reference into this Report. The following
      financial information is incorporated herein by reference:

     (PAGE REFERENCES TO 1996 FINANCIAL REVIEW SECTION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT)


            2. The following additional information should be read in
      conjunction with the financial statements in the Company's 1996 Financial
      Review Section of the Annual Report to Shareholders:

                        (PAGE REFERENCES TO THIS REPORT)







            Consolidated Schedules for the years ended 30 September 1996, 1995
and 1994 as follows:



            All other schedules are omitted because the required matter or
      conditions are not present or because the information required by the
      Schedules is submitted as part of the consolidated financial statements
      and notes thereto.

           3. Exhibits.

EXHIBIT NO.       DESCRIPTION








EXHIBIT NO.       DESCRIPTION



*Previously filed as indicated and incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits
incorporated by reference should be located in SEC File No. 1-4534.







                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: December 12, 1996
                                                AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
                                                       (Registrant)

                                                By: /s/ Arnold H. Kaplan
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                       Arnold H. Kaplan,
                                                    Vice President -- Finance
                                                  Principal Financial Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.










*James H. Agger, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, by signing his
  name hereto, does sign this document on behalf of the above noted individuals,
  pursuant to a power of attorney duly executed by such individuals which is
  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission herewith.

                                                         /s/ James H. Agger
                                                        ------------------------
                                                             James H. Agger
                                                            Attorney-in-Fact







              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE

To: Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.

      We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements included in Air Products and Chemicals,
Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form
10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated 1 November 1996. Our audit was
made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.
The schedule referred to in Item 14(a)(2) in this Form 10-K is the
responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for the purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic consolidated financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic consolidated financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

                                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
1 November 1996

                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To: Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.

      As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, into the
Company's previously filed Registration Statements on Form S-8 and Form S-3
(File Nos. 333-02461, 33-2068, 33-57017, 33-57023 and 33-65117).


                                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
9 December 1996






                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
                                                                    CONSOLIDATED

                AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

               SCHEDULE VIII -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

              FOR THE YEARS ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 1996, 1995 AND 1994





  

NOTES:
      (1)   Includes collections on accounts previously written off and
            additions applicable to businesses acquired.
      (2)   Primarily includes write-offs of uncollectible accounts.





                               EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT NO.                     DESCRIPTION














                                       EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT NO.                             DESCRIPTION



*Previously filed as indicated and incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits
incorporated by reference should be located in SEC File No. 1-4534.









