
10-K405
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999



===============================================================================


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         ------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One) |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999

                                      OR

           |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

               For the transition period from        to
                                             -------    ----------

                         Commission file number 1-4534

                       AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                     Delaware                           23-1274455
          (State or other jurisdiction of    (IRS Employer Identification No.)
          incorporation or organization)

             7201 Hamilton Boulevard
             Allentown, Pennsylvania                        18195-1501
    (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (610)481-4911

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange on
                                                     ------------------------
           Title of each class                           which registered
           -------------------                           ----------------
  Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share              New York and Pacific
      Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                  New York and Pacific
        8 3/4% Debentures Due 2021                            New York
                          ------------------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES X  NO
                                             ---   ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendments to
this Form 10-K. [ X ]
                -----

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant on November 1, 1999 was $6.44 billion. For purposes of the
foregoing calculation (i) all directors and/or executive officers have been
deemed to be affiliates, but the registrant disclaims that any such director
and/or executive officer is an affiliate and (ii) registrant's Flexible Employee
Benefit Trust, described under Item 12 of this Report, is deemed a
non-affiliate.

     The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of November 30, 1999
was 229,304,812.
                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1999. With the exception of those portions which are incorporated by reference
into Parts I, II, and IV of this Form 10-K, the Annual Report is not deemed to
be filed.

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
January 27, 2000 . . . Part III.
===============================================================================



                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The forward-looking statements contained in this document are based on current
expectations regarding important risk factors. Actual results may differ
materially from those expressed. In addition to important risk factors and
uncertainties referred to in the Management's Discussion and Analysis, which is
included under Item 7 herein, such as those relating to the Year 2000, other
important risk factors and uncertainties include the impact of worldwide
economic growth, pricing of both the Company's products and raw materials such
as electricity, customer outages and customer demand, and other factors
resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies, the impact
of competitive products and pricing, success of cost control programs, and the
impact of tax and other legislation and other regulations in the jurisdictions
in which the Company and its affiliates operate.

Factors that might cause forward looking statements related to the BOC
transaction to differ materially from actual results include, among other
things, requirements or delays imposed by regulatory authorities to permit the
transaction to be consummated, unanticipated tax and other costs in separating
the ownership of BOC's businesses and assets, ability to amortize goodwill over
40 years, overall economic and business conditions, demand for the goods and
services of Air Products or BOC or their respective affiliates, competitive
factors in the industries in which each of them competes, changes in government
regulation, success of implementing synergies and other cost reduction programs,
the timing, impact, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or
combinations within relevant industries, fluctuations in interest rates and
foreign currencies, and the price at which Air Products would issue additional
equity, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and other regulations
in the jurisdictions in which Air Products and BOC and their respective
affiliates operate.

                                       ii




                                                    iii




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  Business.

         Through internal development and by acquisitions, Air Products and
Chemicals, Inc. has established an internationally recognized industrial gas and
related industrial process equipment business, and developed strong positions as
a producer of certain chemicals.

         The industrial gases business segment recovers and distributes
industrial gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and hydrogen and a variety of
medical and specialty gases. This segment also includes the Company's power
generation and flue gas treatment businesses. The chemicals business segment
produces and markets polymer chemicals, performance chemicals, and chemical
intermediates. The equipment and services business segment supplies cryogenic
and other process equipment and related engineering services.

         Financial information concerning the Company's business segments
appears in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item
8 herein, which information is incorporated herein by reference, as are all
other specific references herein to information appearing in such 1999 Financial
Review Section of the Annual Report.

         As used in this Report, the term "Air Products" or "Company" includes
subsidiaries and predecessors of the registrant or its subsidiaries, unless the
context indicates otherwise.


                                INDUSTRIAL GASES

         The principal industrial gases sold by the Company are oxygen,
nitrogen, argon (primarily recovered by the cryogenic distillation of air),
hydrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide (purchased, purified, or recovered
through the processing of natural gas or the by-product streams from process
plants), synthesis gas (combined streams of hydrogen and carbon monoxide), and
helium (purchased or refined from crude helium). Medical and specialty gases are
manufactured or blended by the Company or purchased for resale. The industrial
gas segment now also includes the Company's power generation and flue gas
treatment businesses. These businesses were formerly reported in the Equipment
and Services segment.

         The Company's industrial gas business involves two principal modes of
supply:

         "Tonnage" or "on-site" supply--For large volume or "tonnage" users of
industrial gases, a plant is built adjacent to or near the customer's
facility--hence the term "on-site". Alternatively, the gases are delivered
through a pipeline from nearby locations. Supply is generally made under
contracts having terms in excess of three years. In at least nine areas--the
Houston (Texas) Ship Channel including the Port Arthur, Texas, area; "Silicon
Valley", California; Los Angeles, California; Phoenix, Arizona; Decatur,
Alabama; Central Louisiana; Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Singapore; and Bahia,
Brazil--Air Products' hydrogen, oxygen, carbon monoxide, or nitrogen gas
pipelines serve multiple customers from one or more centrally located plants.
Industrial gas companies in which the Company has less than controlling
interests have pipelines in Korea, Thailand, Malaysia, Taiwan, and South Africa.

         Merchant supply--Smaller volumes of industrial gas products are
delivered to thousands of customers in liquid or gaseous form by tanker trucks
or tube trailers. These merchant customers use equipment designed and installed
by Air Products to store the product near the point of use, normally in liquid
state, and vaporize the product into gaseous state for their use as needed.
Increasingly, some customers are being supplied by small on-site generators
using noncryogenic technology based on adsorption and membrane technology,
which, in certain circumstances, the Company sells to its customers. Merchant
customers' contract terms normally are from three to five years. Merchant gases
and various specialty gases are also delivered in cylinders, dewars, and lecture
bottle sizes.



         Oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and hydrogen sold to merchant customers are
usually recovered at large "stand-alone" facilities located near industrial
areas or high-tech centers, or at small noncryogenic generators, or are taken
from tonnage plants used primarily to supply tonnage users. Tonnage plants are
frequently designed to have more capacity than is required by their principal
customer to recover additional product that is liquefied for sale to a merchant
market. Air Products also designs and builds systems for recovering oxygen,
hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and low dew point gases using adsorption
technology.

         Tonnage and merchant sales of atmospheric gases--oxygen, nitrogen, and
argon--constituted approximately 26% of Air Products' consolidated sales in
fiscal 1999 and were approximately 25% and 24% in fiscal years 1998 and 1997
respectively. Tonnage and merchant sales of industrial gases--principally
oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen--to the chemical process industry and the
electronics industry, the largest consuming industries, were approximately 14%
and 9% respectively, of Air Products' consolidated sales in fiscal 1999.

         Other important consumers of Air Products' industrial and specialty
gases are the basic steel industry, the oil industry (which uses inert nitrogen
for oil well stimulation and field pressurization and hydrogen and oxygen for
refining), and the food industry (which uses liquid nitrogen for food freezing).
Air Products believes that it is the largest liquefier of hydrogen which it
supplies to many customers including the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration for its space shuttle program.

         Helium is sold for use in magnetic resonance imaging equipment,
controlled atmospheres processes, and welding. Medical gases are sold in the
merchant market to hospitals and clinics, primarily for inhalation therapy.

         Specialty gases include fluorine products, rare gases such as xenon,
krypton, and neon, and more common gases of high-purity or gases which are
precisely blended as mixtures. Specialty chemicals for use by the electronics
industry include silane, nitrogen trifluoride, carbon tetrafluoride,
hexaflouromethane, and tungsten hexafluoride. These gases and chemicals are used
in numerous industries and in electronic and laboratory applications. In certain
circumstances, the Company sells equipment related to the use, handling, and
storage of such specialty gases and specialty chemicals.

         Sales of industrial gases to merchant customers and/or sales of
specialty products to the electronics industry are made principally through
field sales forces from 131 offices in 37 states in the United States and Puerto
Rico, and from 191 offices in 24 foreign countries. In addition, industrial gas
companies in which the Company has investments operate in more than 30 foreign
countries.

         Electricity and hydrocarbons, including natural gas as a feedstock for
producing certain gases, are important to Air Products' industrial gas business.
See "Raw Materials and Energy". The Company's large truck fleet, which delivers
products to merchant customers, requires a readily available supply of gasoline
or diesel fuel. Also, environmental and health laws and regulations will
continue to affect the Company's industrial gas businesses. See "Environmental
Controls".


Power Generation

         Air Products operates and has 50% interests in a 49-megawatt
fluidized-bed coal-fired power generation facility in Stockton, California; an
85-megawatt coal waste burning power generation facility in western
Pennsylvania; a 120-megawatt gas-fired combined cycle power generation facility
in Orlando, Florida; and a 24-megawatt gas-fired combined cycle power generation
facility near Rotterdam, The Netherlands. A 112-megawatt gas-fueled power
generation facility, in which the Company has a 48.9% interest, operates in
Thailand and supplies electricity to a state-owned electricity generating
authority and steam and electricity to an Air Products industrial gases
affiliate.


Pure Air

         Air Products operates and owns a 50% interest in a facility utilizing
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. flue gas desulfurization (FGD) technology
systems for removing sulfur dioxide from the flue gas of a coal-fired power
generation plant in Indiana.




         Additional information with respect to the Company's power generation
and flue gas treatment businesses is included in Notes 8 and 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein.


BOC Transaction

         In July 1999, the Company and L'Air Liquide S.A. of France agreed to
the terms of a recommended offer under which they would acquire the BOC Group
plc, the leading British industrial gases company. The Company will contribute
approximately $5.9 billion in cash to the transaction, expected to be funded
initially with debt financing through or supported by a credit facility provided
by The Chase Manhattan Bank.

         This transaction provides a unique opportunity for the Company to
acquire attractive, complementary assets that will increase its size and scale
to compete around the world and extend its presence in high growth areas,
advancing its strategy of building a leading global industrial gas company.
Additional information about the acquisition is included in Note 18 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein.


                                    CHEMICALS

         The Company's chemicals businesses consist of polymer chemicals,
performance chemicals, and chemical intermediates where the Company is able to
differentiate itself by the performance of its products in the customer's
application, the technical service which the Company provides, and the scale of
production and the production technology employed by the Company.


Polymer Chemicals

         Air Products' polymer chemicals are water-based and water-soluble
products derived primarily from vinyl acetate monomer. The principal products of
these businesses are polymer emulsions, pressure sensitive adhesives, and
polyvinyl alcohol. Total sales from these businesses constituted approximately
14% of Air Products' consolidated sales in fiscal year 1999, and 12% in each of
fiscal years 1998 and 1997.

         Polymer Emulsions-The Company's major emulsion products are vinyl
acetate homopolymer emulsions and AIRFLEX(R) vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer
emulsions. The Company also produces emulsions which incorporate vinyl chloride
and various acrylates in the polymer. These products are used in adhesives,
nonwoven fabric binders, paper coatings, paints, inks, and carpet backing binder
formulations.

         Air Products owns 65% of a world-wide joint venture with Wacker-Chemie
GmbH that produces polymer emulsions and pressure sensitive adhesives. The
Company also owns 20% of a world-wide joint venture with Wacker-Chemie that
produces redispersible powders made from polymer emulsions.

         Pressure Sensitive Adhesives-These products are water-based acrylic
emulsions which are used for both permanent and removable pressure sensitive
adhesives primarily for labels and tapes.

         Polyvinyl Alcohol-These polymer products are water-soluble synthetic
resins which are used in textile warp sizes, surface sizes for paper, adhesives,
safety glass laminates, and as emulsifying agents in polymerization. As a
co-product of polyvinyl alcohol, acetic acid is a merchant product sold to a
variety of markets including textiles, pharmaceuticals, and electronics.


Performance Chemicals

         Air Products' performance chemicals are differentiated from the
competition based on their performance when used in the customer's products and
the technical service which the Company provides. The principal products of
these businesses are specialty additives, polyurethane additives, and epoxy
additives. Total sales from these businesses constituted approximately 8% of Air
Products' consolidated sales in each of fiscal years 1999, 1998, and 1997.




         Specialty Additives-These products are primarily acetylenic alcohols
and amines which are used as performance additives in coatings, lubricants,
electro-deposition processes, agricultural formulations, and corrosion
inhibitors.

         Polyurethane Additives-These products include catalysts and surfactants
which are used as performance control additives and processing aids in the
production of both flexible and rigid polyurethane foam around the world. The
principal end markets for polyurethane foams include furniture cushioning,
insulation, carpet underlay, bedding, and automobile seating.

         Epoxy Additives-These products include polyamides, aromatic amines,
cycloaliphatic amines, reactive diluents, and specialty epoxy resins which are
used as performance additives in epoxy formulations by epoxy manufacturers
worldwide. The end markets for epoxies are coatings, flooring, adhesives,
reinforced composites, and electrical laminates.


Chemical Intermediates

         The chemical intermediates businesses use the Company's proprietary
technology and scale of production to differentiate themselves from the
competition. The principal intermediates sold by the Company include amines and
polyurethane intermediates. The Company also produces certain industrial
chemicals (ammonia, methanol, and nitric acid) as raw materials for its
differentiated products. Total third-party sales from the chemical intermediates
businesses constituted 11% of Air Products' consolidated sales in each of fiscal
years 1999, 1998, and 1997.

         Amines-The Company produces a broad range of amines using ammonia and
methanol, which are both manufactured by Air Products, and other alcohol
feedstocks purchased from various suppliers. Other, more specialized amines, are
produced by the hydrogenation of purchased intermediates. Substantial quantities
of these products are sold under long-term contracts to a small number of
customers. These products are used by the Company's customers as raw materials
in the manufacture of herbicides, pesticides, water treatment chemicals, animal
nutrients, polyurethane coatings, artificial sweeteners, rubber chemicals, and
pharmaceuticals. Ammonia is a feedstock for its alkylamines and the excess over
this requirement is marketed as ammonium nitrate prills and solutions which are
primarily used by customers as fertilizers or in other agricultural
applications. Methanol is principally used by Air Products as a feedstock in
methylamine production and the excess over this requirement is marketed to the
methanol market.

         Polyurethane Intermediates-The Company produces dinitrotoluene ("DNT")
and toluene diamine ("TDA") for use as intermediates by the Company's customers
in the manufacture of a major precursor of flexible polyurethane foam. The
principal end markets for flexible polyurethane foams include furniture
cushioning, carpet underlay, bedding, and seating in automobiles. Virtually all
of the Company's production of DNT and TDA is sold under long-term contracts to
a small number of customers.


                                      * * *

         Chemical sales are supported from various locations in the United
States, England, Germany, Brazil, Mexico, The Netherlands, Japan, China,
Singapore, and South Africa, and through sales representatives or distributors
in most industrialized countries. Dry products are delivered in railcars,
trucks, drums, bags, and cartons. Liquid products are delivered by barge, rail
tank cars, tank-trailers, drums and pails, and, at one location, by pipeline.

         The chemicals business depends on adequate energy sources, including
natural gas as a feedstock for the production of certain products (see "Raw
Materials and Energy"), and will continue to be affected by various
environmental and health laws and regulations (see "Environmental Controls").




                             EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES

         The Company designs and manufactures equipment for cryogenic air
separation, gas processing, natural gas liquefaction, and hydrogen purification.
Air Products also designs and builds systems for recovering hydrogen, nitrogen,
carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and low dew point gases using membrane
technology. Additionally, a broad range of plant design, engineering,
procurement, and construction management services is provided for the above
areas. Equipment is manufactured for use by the industrial gases segment and for
sale in industrial markets which include the Company's international industrial
gas affiliates.

         The backlog of orders (including letters of intent) believed to be firm
from other companies and equity affiliates for equipment was approximately $175
million on September 30, 1999, approximately 27% of which relates to cryogenic
air separation, as compared with a total backlog of approximately $302 million
on September 30, 1998. It is expected that approximately $136 million of the
backlog on September 30, 1999, will be completed during fiscal 2000.


                                     GENERAL


Foreign Operations

         Air Products, through subsidiaries and affiliates, conducts business in
numerous countries outside the United States. The structure of the Air Products
industrial gas business in Europe mirrors the Company's United States operation.
Air Products' international business is subject to risks customarily encountered
in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
and controls, import and export controls, and other economic, political, and
regulatory policies of local governments.

         Majority and wholly owned industrial gas subsidiaries operate in
Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and throughout Europe and Asia in 14 and
eight countries respectively. Subsequent to fiscal year end, the Company
acquired the 51 percent of shares that it previously did not own in Korea
Industrial Gases Ltd., the largest industrial gas company in Korea. There are
50% industrial gas joint ventures in Africa, Canada, South Africa, four
countries in Europe, and two in Asia, and less than controlling interests in
Canada and Mexico, two countries in Europe, and five in Asia. The Company has a
50% interest in a power generation facility in The Netherlands and a 48.9%
interest in Thailand.

         The principal geographic markets for the Company's chemical products
are North America, Europe, Asia, Brazil, and Mexico. Majority and wholly owned
subsidiaries operate in Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, the U.K., Australia,
Singapore, and Korea. The Company also has 50% joint ventures in Japan for
distribution of POLYCAT(R) and manufacture and sale of DABCO(R) amine catalysts.
The polymer emulsions and pressure sensitive adhesives joint venture with
Wacker-Chemie GmbH has headquarters in the United States and production
facilities in the U.S., Germany, Mexico, and Korea. Headquarters for the 20%
investment in the redispersible powder venture with Wacker-Chemie are in Germany
with manufacturing facilities in Germany and the United States.

         Financial information about Air Products' foreign operations and
investments is included in Notes 8, 10, and 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Item 8 herein. Information about foreign currency
translation is included in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included under Item 8 herein, under "Foreign Currency", and information on
Company exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein, under "Foreign
Exchange Contracts". Export sales from operations in the United States to
unconsolidated customers amounted to $528 million, $650 million, and $571
million in 1999, 1998, and 1997 respectively. Total export sales in fiscal 1999
included $43 million in export sales to affiliated customers. The sales to
affiliated customers were primarily equipment sales.


Technology Development

          Air Products conducts research and development principally in its
laboratories located in Trexlertown, Pennsylvania, as well as in Manchester and
Basingstoke, England; Utrecht, The Netherlands; and Barcelona, Spain.  The
Company also funds and works closely on research and development programs with a
number of major universities and conducts a sizable amount of research work
funded by others, principally the United States Government.




         The Company's market-oriented approach to technology development
encompasses research and development and engineering, as well as commercial
development.

         The amount expended by the Company on research and development during
fiscal 1999 was $123 million, and was $112 million and $114 during fiscal 1998
and 1997 respectively.

         In the industrial gases and equipment and services segments, technology
development is directed primarily to developing new and improved processes and
equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and cryogenic
fluids, developing new products, and developing new and improved applications
for industrial gases. It is through such applications and improvements that the
Company has become a major supplier to the electronics, polymer, petroleum,
rubber, plastics, food processing, and paper industries. Through fundamental
research into sieve and polymer materials, advanced process engineering, and
integrated manufacturing methods, the Company discovers, develops, and improves
the economics of noncryogenic gas separation technologies. Additionally,
technology development for the equipment and services businesses is directed
primarily to reducing the capital and operating costs of its facilities and to
commercializing new technologies in gas production and separation and in power
production.

         In the chemicals segment, technology development is primarily concerned
with new products and applications to strengthen and extend our present
positions in polymer and performance chemicals. In addition, a major continuing
effort supports the development of new and improved manufacturing technology for
chemical intermediates and various types of polymers.

         A corporate research group supports the research efforts of the
Company's various businesses. This group includes the Company's Corporate
Science and Technology Center which conducts exploratory research in areas
important to the long-term growth of the Company's core businesses, e.g., gas
and fluid separations, polymer science, organic synthesis, and fluorine
chemicals.

         As of November 1, 1999, Air Products owned 928 United States patents
and 1,694 foreign patents. The Company is also licensed to practice under
patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered
important, Air Products does not consider its business as a whole to be
materially dependent upon any particular patent or patent license, or group of
patents or licenses.


Raw Materials and Energy

         The Company manufactures hydrogen, carbon monoxide, synthesis gas,
anhydrous ammonia, carbon dioxide, and methanol principally from natural gas.
Such products accounted for approximately 8% of the Company's consolidated sales
in fiscal 1999. The Company's principal raw material purchases are chemical
intermediates produced by others from basic petrochemical feedstocks such as
olefins and aromatic hydrocarbons. These feedstocks are generally derived from
various crude oil fractions or from liquids extracted from natural gas. The
Company purchases its chemical intermediates from many sources and generally is
not dependent on one supplier. However, with respect to vinyl acetate monomer
which supports the polymer business, the Company is heavily dependent on a
single supplier under a long-term contract which produces vinyl acetate monomer
from several facilities. The Company characterizes the availability of these
chemical intermediates as generally being readily available. The Company uses
such raw materials in the production of emulsions, polyvinyl alcohol, amines,
polyurethane intermediates, specialty additives, polyurethane additives, and
epoxy additives. Such products accounted for approximately 34% of the Company's
consolidated sales in fiscal 1999. Natural gas is an energy source at a number
of the Company's facilities.

         The Company's industrial gas facilities use substantial amounts of
electrical power. Any shortage of electrical power or interruption of its supply
or increase in its price which cannot be passed through to customers for
competitive reasons will adversely affect the merchant industrial gas business
of the Company.

         In addition, the Company purchases finished and semi-finished materials
and chemical intermediates from many suppliers. During fiscal 1999 no
significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of
energy or raw materials.



Environmental Controls

         The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in
the United States and foreign countries where it has operations. Compliance with
these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs.
Additionally, from time to time the Company is involved in proceedings under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (the
federal Superfund law), similar state laws, and the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA) relating to the designation of certain sites for
investigation and possible cleanup. Additional information with respect to these
proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company's
accounting policies on environmental expenditures are discussed in Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein.

         The amounts charged to earnings on an after-tax basis related to
environmental protection totaled $27 million in 1999, $24 million in 1998, and
$26 million in 1997. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for
compliance with environmental laws, as well as remedial activities, and costs
incurred to meet internal Company standards. Such costs are estimated to be
approximately $28 million in 2000 and $29 million in 2001.

         Although precise amounts are difficult to define, the Company estimates
that in fiscal 1999 it spent approximately $7 million on capital projects to
control pollution (including expenditures associated with new plants) versus $10
million in 1998. Capital expenditures to control pollution in future years are
estimated at $11 million in 2000 and $10 million in 2001.

         The exact amount to be expended by the Company and its power generation
business joint ventures on equipment to control pollution will depend upon the
timing of the capital projects and timing and content of regulations promulgated
by environmental regulatory bodies during the life of any capital investment.
Efforts are made to pass these costs through to customers. To the extent
long-term contracts have been entered into for supply of product such as for the
industrial gas on-site business and for certain chemical products, the cost of
any environmental compliance generally is contractually passed through to the
customer.

         It is the Company's policy to accrue environmental investigatory and
noncapital remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a
liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
The potential exposure for such costs is estimated to range from $10 million to
a reasonably possible upper exposure of $26 million. The balance sheet at
September 30, 1999 includes an accrual of $19 million. At September 30, 1998,
the balance sheet accrual was $23 million.

         In addition to the environmental exposures discussed in the preceding
paragraph, there will be spending at a Company-owned manufacturing site where
the Company is undertaking RCRA remediation action. The Company estimates
capital costs to implement the anticipated remedial program will range from $23
to $30 million. Spending was $7.5 million through fiscal 1999 and is estimated
at $10 million for fiscal 2000 and $1 million for 2001. Operating and
maintenance expenses associated with continuing the remedial program are
estimated to be approximately $1 million per year beginning in fiscal 2000 and
continuing for an estimated period of up to 30 years. A former owner and
operator at the site has agreed to reimburse the Company approximately 20% of
the costs incurred in the remediation. In fiscal 1999 an insurance recovery
related to this environmental site was received in the amount of $7.7 million.
The cost estimates have not been reduced by the value of such reimbursement.

         Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the
estimates given inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures.
Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company
does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with environmental
matters in excess of the amounts recorded or disclosed above would have a
materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations in
any one year.




Competition

         The Company's businesses face strong competition from others, some of
which are larger and have greater resources than Air Products.

         Air Products' industrial gas business competes in the United States
with three major sellers and with several regional sellers. Competition in
industrial gas markets is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and
furnishing or developing applications for use of such gases by customers, and in
some cases the provisions of other services or products such as power and steam
generation. A similar competitive situation exists in European industrial gas
markets in which the Company competes against one or more larger entrenched
competitors in most countries.

         The number of the Company's principal competitors in the chemicals
business varies from product to product, and it is not practical to identify
such competitors because of the broad range of the Company's chemical products
and the markets served, although the Company believes it has a leading or strong
market position in most of its chemical products. For amines the competition is
principally from other large chemical companies that also have the ability to
provide competitive pricing, reliability of supply, technical service
assistance, and quality products and services. The possibility of back
integration by large customers is the major competitive factor for the sale of
polyurethane intermediates. In its other chemical products, the Company competes
with a large number of chemical companies, some of which are larger, possess
greater financial resources, and are more vertically integrated than the
Company. Competition in these products is principally on the basis of price,
quality, product performance, reliability of product supply, and technical
service assistance.

         The Company's equipment and services businesses and its power
generation business compete in all aspects with a great number of firms, some of
which have greater financial resources than Air Products. Another important
factor in certain export sales is financing provided by governmental entities in
the United States and the United Kingdom as compared with financing offered by
their counterparts in other countries.

         Competition is based primarily on technological performance, service,
technical know-how, price, and performance guarantees. Air Products believes
that its comprehensive project development capability, operating experience,
engineering and financing capabilities, and construction management experience
will enable it to compete effectively.


Insurance

         The Company's policy is to obtain public liability and property
insurance coverage that is currently available at what management determines to
be a fair and reasonable price. The Company, for itself and its power generation
and flue gas treatment joint venture affiliates for which it assumes turnkey
construction or operating responsibility, maintains public liability and
property insurance coverage at amounts which management believes are sufficient,
after retention, to meet the Company's anticipated needs in light of historical
experience to cover future litigation and claims. There is no assurance,
however, that the Company will not incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside
the coverage of, its insurance.


Employees

       On September 30, 1999, the Company (including majority-owned
subsidiaries) had approximately 17,400 full-time employees of whom approximately
7,200 were located outside the United States. The Company has collective
bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations which expire on various
dates over the next three to four years.  The Company considers relations with
its employees to be satisfactory. The Company does not believe that any
expiring collective bargaining agreements will result in a material adverse
impact on the Company.


Year 2000

         Software failures due to processing efforts potentially arising from
calculations using the Year 2000 dates are a known risk. The Company is
currently evaluating and managing the financial and operating risks associated
with this problem. Additional information regarding the Company's Year 2000
efforts is included under Item 7 herein.



Executive Officers of the Company

         The Company's executive officers and their respective positions and
ages on December 15, 1999 follow. Except where indicated, each of the executive
officers listed below has been employed by the Company in the position indicated
during the past five fiscal years. Information with respect to offices held is
stated in fiscal years.




- ------------------
(A)   Member, Board of Directors.
(B)   Member, Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.
(C)   Member, Finance Committee of the Board of Directors.
(D)   Member, Management Committee.
(E)   Member, Corporate Executive Committee.



ITEM 2.  Properties.

         The principal executive offices of Air Products are located at its
headquarters in Trexlertown, near Allentown, Pennsylvania. Additional
administrative offices are located in owned facilities in Hersham, near London,
England, and Brampton, near Toronto, Canada, and in leased facilities in the
Allentown area, Pennsylvania; Tokyo, Japan; Hong Kong, the People's Republic of
China; Singapore; and Sao Paulo, Brazil. The management considers the Company's
facilities, described in more detail below, to be adequate to support the
business efficiently. The following information with respect to properties is as
of September 30, 1999.


Industrial Gases

         The industrial gases segment has approximately 190 plant facilities in
38 states, the majority of which recover nitrogen, oxygen, and argon. The
Company has eight facilities which produce specialty gases and 31 facilities
which recover hydrogen throughout the United States. Helium is recovered at two
plants in Kansas and Texas, and acetylene is manufactured at six plants in six
states in the United States. There are 144 sales offices and/or cylinder
distribution centers located in 39 states.

         The property on which the above plants are located is owned by Air
Products at approximately one-fourth of the locations, and leased by Air
Products at the remaining locations. However, in virtually all cases, the plant
itself is owned and operated by Air Products. Air Products owns approximately
half of its sales offices and cylinder distribution centers, including related
real estate, and leases the other half.

         Air Products' European plant facilities total 64, and include eight
plants which recover hydrogen, seven plants which manufacture dissolved
acetylene, and one which recovers carbon monoxide. The majority of European
plants recover nitrogen, oxygen, and argon. In addition, there are four
specialty gas centers. There is a combined total of 123 sales offices and/or
cylinder distribution centers in Europe, and several additional facilities
located in Brazil, Canada, Japan, the People's Republic of China, Puerto Rico,
Singapore, Indonesia, Taiwan, Korea, Malaysia, and the Middle East.
Representative offices are located in Taiwan, and in Beijing and Shanghai in the
People's Republic of China.


Chemicals

         The chemicals segment manufactures amines, nitric acid, methanol,
anhydrous ammonia, and ammonia products at its Pace, Florida facility;
alkylamines at its St. Gabriel, Louisiana facility; polyvinyl acetate emulsions
at its South Brunswick, New Jersey facility; styrene emulsions, styrene
acrylics, polyvinyl acetate acrylics, and polyvinyl acetate emulsions at its San
Juan del Rio facility in Mexico; polyvinyl acetate emulsions at its Cologne,
Germany facility; nitric acid, dinitrotoluene, toluene diamine, polyvinyl
alcohol, and acetic acid at its Pasadena, Texas facility; polyvinyl acetate
emulsions, polyvinyl alcohol, acetic acid, and acetylenic chemicals at its
Calvert City, Kentucky facility; specialty amines at its Wichita, Kansas
facility; methylamines, dimethyl formamide, choline chloride, and dimethyl amino
ethanol at its Teeside, England facility; and epoxy additives at its facilities
in Manchester, England, Los Angeles, California, and Cumberland, Rhode Island.
The chemicals segment manufactures polyurethane additives and polyurethane
specialty products (AIRTHANE(R)/VERSATHANE(R)) at its Paulsboro, New Jersey
facility which is leased in part and owned in part. The chemicals segment also
manufactures polyvinyl acetate emulsions at five smaller locations.

         The chemicals segment has 15 plant facilities, four sales offices, and
two laboratories in the United States, and operates three plants, nine
sales/representative offices, and four laboratories in Europe, two laboratories
in Brazil, Korea, China, and Japan, one plant in Mexico, two plants in Korea,
one plant in Brazil, and sales offices in Australia, Brazil, Mexico, Japan,
Korea, and Singapore, and representative offices in Beijing, Shanghai, and Hong
Kong in the People's Republic of China. Substantially all of the chemicals
segment's plants and real estate are owned. Approximately 75% of the offices are
leased by the Company and 25% are owned.





Equipment and Services

         The principal facilities utilized by the equipment and services
segment include five plants and two sales offices in the United States, two
plants and two offices in Europe, one office in Japan, and one sales office in
the People's Republic of China. Air Products owns approximately 50% of the
facilities and real estate in this segment and leases the remaining 50%.


ITEM 3.  Legal Proceedings.

         In the normal course of business Air Products and its subsidiaries
are involved in legal proceedings including proceedings involving governmental
authorities. During April, 1999 the Kentucky Department of Environmental
Protection ("KDEP") forwarded a Notice of Violation alleging the Company's
Calvert City, Kentucky chemical manufacturing facility had exceeded the
significant net emission rate for ozone (measured as volatile organic compounds
("VOCs")) of Kentucky's Prevention of Significant Air Quality regulation with
respect to calendar years 1993, 1995, 1997, and related construction permits.
KDEP has also cited the facility for delayed installation of a device to control
VOCs. There are also other proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (the federal Superfund law), the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and similar state environmental
laws relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation or
remediation. Presently there are approximately 45 sites on which a final
settlement has not been reached where the Company, along with others, has been
designated a Potentially Responsible Party by the Environmental Protection
Agency or is otherwise engaged in investigation or remediation. The Company does
not expect that any sums it may have to pay in connection with these matters
would have a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position,
nor is there any material additional exposure expected in any one year in excess
of the amounts the Company currently has accrued. Additional information on the
Company's environmental exposure is included under "Environmental Controls".

ITEM 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

           Not applicable.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  Market for the Company's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters.

         The Company's Common Stock, ticker symbol "APD", is listed on the
New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges. Market and dividend information for the
Company's Common Stock appear under "Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial
Data" on page 62 of the 1999 Financial Review Section of the Annual Report to
Shareholders which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the Company
has authority to issue 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock in series. The Board
of Directors is authorized to designate the series and to fix the relative
voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation, redemption and other rights,
preferences, and limitations as between series. When preferred stock is issued,
holders of Common Stock are subject to the dividend and liquidation preferences
and other prior rights of the preferred stock. There currently is no preferred
stock outstanding. The Company's Transfer Agent and Registrar is First Chicago
Trust Company, a Division of Equiserve, P.O. Box 2506, Jersey City, New Jersey
07303-2506, telephone (800) 519-3111, TDD (201) 222-4955, internet website
www.equiserve.com, and e-mail address equiserve@em.equiserve.com.

         As of November 30, 1999 there were 11,922 record holders of the
Company's Common Stock.

ITEM 6.  Selected Financial Data.

         The tabular information appearing under "Eleven-Year Summary of
Selected Financial Data" on page 62 of the 1999 Financial Review Section of the
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.




ITEM 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations.

          The textual information appearing under "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" on pages 23 through 30 of the 1999 Financial Review Section of the
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

         The textual information appearing under "Financial Instruments
Sensitivity Analysis" on pages 30 and 31 of the 1999 Financial Review Section of
the Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  Financial Statements.

         The consolidated financial statements and the related notes
thereto together with the report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
October 29, 1999 appearing on pages 33 through 62 of the 1999 Financial Review
Section of the Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9.  Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

         Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Company.

         The biographical information relating to the Company's directors
contained on pages 6 through 9 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Company's
2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
Biographical information relating to the Company's executive officers is set
forth in Item 1 of Part I of this Report.

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation.

         The information under "Director Compensation", "Report of the
Management Development and Compensation Committee", "Executive Compensation
Tables", "Severance and Other Change In Control Arrangements", and "Stock
Performance Graph", appearing on pages 10 through 17 of the Proxy Statement
relating to the Company's 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

         The information required for this Item is set forth in the
sections headed "Persons Owning More than 5% of Air Products Stock" and "Air
Products Stock Beneficially Owned by Officers and Directors" contained on
pages 18 and 19 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Company's 2000
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

         Not applicable.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

         (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:


       1. The 1999 Financial Review Section of the Company's 1999 Annual Report
to Shareholders. Information contained therein is not deemed filed except as it
is incorporated by reference into this Report. The following financial
information is incorporated herein by reference:




       2. The following additional information should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements in the Company's 1999 Financial Review Section of
the Annual Report to Shareholders:



       All other schedules are omitted because the required matter or conditions
are not present or because the information required by the Schedules is
submitted as part of the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.


       3. Exhibits.

          Exhibit No.    Description

          (3)            Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.

          3.1            By-Laws of the  Company.  (Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the
                         Company's  Form 8-K Report dated September 18, 1997.)*

          3.2            Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company.
                         (Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Form 10-K
                         Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1987.)*

          3.3            Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
                         of the Company dated January 25, 1996. (Filed as
                         Exhibit 3.3 to the  Company's  Form 10-K Report for
                         the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996.)*

          (4)            Instruments defining the rights of security holders,
                         including indentures. Upon request of the Securities
                         and Exchange Commission, the Company hereby
                         undertakes to furnish copies of the instruments with
                         respect to its long-term debt.

          4.1            Rights Agreement, dated as of March 19, 1998, between
                         the Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New
                         York. (Filed as Exhibit 1 to the Company's Form 8-A
                         Registration Statement dated March 19, 1998, as
                         amended by Form 8-A/A dated July 16, 1998).*



          4.2            Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
                         September 16, 1999 among the Company,  Additional
                         Borrowers parties thereto,  Lenders parties thereto,
                         and The Chase Manhattan Bank (as amended).

          (10)           Material Contracts.

          10.1           1990 Deferred Stock Plan of the Company, as amended
                         and restated effective October 1, 1989. (Filed as
                         Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-K Report for
                         the fiscal year ended September 30, 1989.)*

          10.2           1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company effective
                         October 1, 1996. (Filed as Exhibit 10.2(c) to the
                         Company's  Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year ended
                         September 30, 1996.)*

          10.3           Amended and Restated 1997 Annual Incentive Plan of the
                         Company effective April 1, 1998.  (Filed as
                         Exhibit 10.3(a) to the Company's Form 10-K Report for
                         the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998.)*

          10.4           Supplementary Pension Plan of the Company, as amended
                         effective October 1, 1988.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.4
                         to the Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year
                         ended September 30, 1989.)*

         10.4(a)        Amendment to the Pension Plan for Salaried Employees
                         and the Pension Plan for Hourly Rated Employees of
                         the Company, adopted September 20, 1995. (Filed as
                         Exhibit 10.4(d) to the Company's Form 10-K Report for
                         the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.)*

          10.4(b)        Amendment to Supplementary Pension Plan of the Company,
                         adopted September 20, 1995.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.4(e)
                         to the Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year
                         ended September 30, 1995.)*

          10.4(c)        Amendment to Supplementary Pension Plan of the Company,
                         adopted November 2, 1995.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.4(c)
                         to the Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year
                         ended September 30, 1996.)*

          10.5           Supplementary Savings Plan of the Company as amended
                         October 1, 1989.  (Filed as Exhibit 1.5 to the
                         Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year ended
                         September 30, 1989.)*

          10.5(a)        Amendment to Supplementary Savings Plan of the Company
                         effective April 1, 1998. (Filed as Exhibit 10.3(a)
                         to the Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year
                         ended September 30, 1998.)*

          10.6           Amended and Restated  Deferred Compensation Plan for
                         Directors of the Company, effective  May 19,  1998.
                         (Filed as Exhibit  10.6(a) to the Company's  Form 10-K
                         Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998.)*

          10.7           Stock Option Plan for Directors of the Company,
                         effective January 27,  1994, as amended
                         October 21, 1999.

          10.8           Letter dated July 1, 1997 concerning pension for an
                         executive officer.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.7(b) to the
                         Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year ended
                         September 30, 1998.)*

          10.9           Letter dated July 7, 1997 concerning pension for an
                         executive officer.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.7(c) to the
                         Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year ended
                         September 30, 1998.)*

          10.10          Letter dated July 1, 1997 concerning pension for an
                         executive officer.




          10.11          Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Severance Plan
                         effective March 15, 1990.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.8(a)
                         to the Company's Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year
                         ended September 30, 1992.)*

          10.12          Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Change of Control
                         Severance Plan effective March 15, 1990.  (Filed as
                         Exhibit 10.8(b) to the Company's Form 10-K Report for
                         the fiscal year ended September 30, 1992.)*

          10.13          Amended and  Restated Trust Agreement by and between
                         the Company and PNC Bank, N.A. relating to the
                         Supplementary Pension Plan dated as of August 1, 1999.

         10.14          Amended and Restated Trust Agreement by and between the
                        Company and PNC Bank, N.A. relating to the Supplementary
                        Savings Plan dated as of August 1, 1999.

         10.15          Form of Split Employment Contracts for an executive
                        officer with the Company  dated  November 6, 1999 and
                        with an affiliate of the Company dated June 4, 1996,
                        and amended by letter dated November 6, 1999.

         10.16          Form of Severance Agreements which the Company has with
                        each of its U.S. Executive Officers and European
                        Executive Officer.

         10.17          Acquisition Agreement One by and between L'Air
                        Liquide S.A. and the Company dated June 14, 1999
                        regarding the BOC transaction.**

         10.18          Agreement by and between L'Air Liquide S. A. and the
                        Company dated July 2, 1999 (and  incorporating
                        amendments made July 7, 1999)regarding the BOC
                        transaction.**

         10.19          Press Release regarding the BOC transaction dated
                        July 13, 1999.  (Reported as Item 5 in the Form 8-K
                        filed on July 13, 1999.)*

         (11)           Earnings per share.

         (12)           Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

         (13)           1999 Financial Review Section of the Annual Report to
                        Shareholders for the fiscal year  ended  September 30,
                        1999, which is furnished to the Commission for
                        information only, and not filed except as expressly
                        incorporated by reference in this Report.

         (21)           Subsidiaries of the registrant.

         (24)           Power of Attorney.

         (27)           Financial Data Schedule, which is submitted
                        electronically to the Securities and Exchange
                        Commission for information only, and not filed.

       (b) Reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended September 30,
1999:

       Current Reports on Form 8-K dated July 13, 1999, July 16, 1999, and
July 23, 1999, were filed in which Item 5 of such Form was reported.

*Previously filed as indicated and incorporated herein by reference.  Exhibits
incorporated by reference are located in SEC File No. 1-4534.

**Certain information in this Exhibit has been omitted pursuant to a Request for
Confidential Treatment and such information has been filed separately with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.





                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: December 16, 1999

                                    AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
                                               (Registrant)


                                    By:       /s/ Leo J. Daley
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Leo J. Daley, Vice President--Finance
                                         Principal Financial Officer


         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








* W. Douglas Brown, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, by signing
  his name hereto, does sign this document on behalf of the above noted
  individuals, pursuant to a power of attorney duly executed by such
  individuals which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
  herewith.



                                           /s/ W. Douglas Brown
                                -------------------------------------------
                                           W. Douglas Brown
                                           Attorney-in-Fact



              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE


To:  Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.

         We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated financial statements included in Air Products and
Chemicals, Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated 29 October 1999. Our
audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken
as a whole. The schedule referred to in Item 14(a)(2) in this Form 10-K is the
responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for the purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic consolidated financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic consolidated financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.



                                               ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
29 October 1999



                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To: Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.

         As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the
incorporation of our reports included or incorporated by reference in this Form
10-K, into the Company's previously filed Registration Statements on Form S-8
and Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-33851, 333-02461, 33-2068, 333-36231, 33-57023,
33-65117, 333-21145, 333-45239, 333-18955, 333-21147, 333-60147, 333-71405,
333-73105, and 333-90773).



                                               ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP



Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
15 December 1999






NOTES:

(1)  Includes collections on accounts previously written off and additions
     applicable to businesses acquired.

(2)  Primarily includes write-offs of uncollectible accounts.

(3)  Charges to the accrual for termination payments.




